ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u1	The Minister of Security and Justice has already been welcomed to the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Partly on behalf of the groups of the SGP and 50PLUS, the CDA Group has a number of important questions to the Minister on the proposal for the Law on transit costs supervision and disciplinary law legal professions. The CDA Group supports the objective that protected professions, such as lawyers, notaries and bailiffs, should contribute to the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings. The members of these professional bodies governed by public law enjoy the privilege of a domain monopoly. Supervision and disciplinary law improve the quality and integrity of the profession. The second reason for passing on the costs of supervision and disciplinary justice, which is a financial incentive to be as efficient as possible, is somewhat less convincing. In any case, the CDA Group is not opposed to charging costs in principle. However, the members of my group attach great importance to the principle of proportionality. They are also very sensitive to the implementation aspects. In this context, questions have arisen from the various professions up to the last minute. For example, in the letter of 14 November to the Security and Justice Committee following the note following the report, the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation (KNB) clearly indicated its willingness to meet the costs for the calendar year 2017 once from an existing reserve. This is necessary because the new law on a guarantee fund for notaries is likely to be introduced only on 1 January 2018. The CDA Group also welcomes the Minister's willingness and commitment to make such a law in response to explicit questions from our group. The new law on a guarantee fund for notaries allows notaries to pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings to their clients in the future and then to pay them to the relevant guarantee fund. According to the KNB, however, the Minister would not take sufficient account of the fact that for 2017 the KNB cannot recover the passing-on of the costs of supervision and disciplinary justice to the notaries on a one-off basis. The financial year started on 1 October 2016. Moreover, Members will not agree to the adoption of a regulation if it proposes to double the fee. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he can agree to a one-time cover from the reserve of the KNB for 2017. In the opinion of the CDA Group, he would have found an elegant solution, so that the notaries would not be chased at a cost in 2017, assuming that the law on a guarantee fund for notaries will enter into force from 1 January 2018. If the Minister does not agree with this, the CDA Group proposes that the Law on the internalisation of costs of supervision and disciplinary law should enter into force for the KNB at the same time as the Law on a guarantee fund for the notaries, i.e. that it will enter into force later. On 23 November, the Dutch order of lawyers also sent a letter to the members of the Committee on Security and Justice. The order still shows no understanding of the costs of deploying the members of the judiciary. In addition, the order expresses its surprise that in the event of a decreasing number of complaints to the boards of discipline and a reduced number of members of the boards of discipline, the costs have remained the same. Now that the costs are not clear, the Dutch order of lawyers has not taken this into account in its 2017 budget. Can the Minister state when he can give that clarity to the Dutch barristers' order? And is he prepared to suspend the introduction of the present law for the Dutch order of lawyers until that clarity is there, so that an additional amount can be fixed in the 2017 budget for that purpose? The members of the CDA Group have great sympathy for the position of the bailiffs. They would like to hear from the Minister exactly when he will set up the independent committee announced by him in his letter of 16 November, which will carry out a follow-up investigation into the fees of the bailiffs. The first preliminary examination shows that, in most cases, tariffs have not kept pace with overall cost developments. The members of the CDA Group may imagine that the law will not enter into force before the bailiffs until the Decision on tariffs has been amended by judicial bailiffs in accordance with the Minister's wishes. Otherwise, the bailiffs face an irresponsible increase in costs. We look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u3	I call Mrs Wezel from the CDA Group. Oh, excuse me, she's from the SP Group. If I sit in front of you once, I'll make such a mistake! I call Mrs Wezel from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u4	I speak on behalf of the SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party. Mr. Chairman. The next item today is the Law on transit costs supervision and disciplinary law legal appeals. The bill governs in the Lawyers Act, the Court of Auditors Act and the Law on Notary Officers the passing on of the costs of supervision of notaries and bailiffs and the costs of disciplinary justice of lawyers, notaries and bailiffs to the professional groups. I would like to talk to the Minister today about two points. The first point is the increase in the burden that, in the opinion of the SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party, the passing on of the costs in question results. The second point is the justification of the legislative proposal compared to the current general government policy on the transfer of costs as laid down in the Maat report 2014 and the position in this regard of the Council of State, broken down in a. the principle of profit, b. the principle of "paying the polluter/polluter" and c. the 100% passing on of costs. Let me start with the first point: the burden increase. The current bill is one of the government's legislative proposals with important financial objectives to reduce the increase in public expenditure and reduce the budget deficit. In general, this is a reasonable objective, as could be said from the cabinet's point of view. With this bill, the Minister also achieves that his ministry's spending is falling. However, the Minister does this by imposing the full burden of supervision and disciplinary justice on, in this case, the notaries, lawyers and bailiffs, in addition to general taxation. The Minister supports this additional burden on the parties concerned with the argument that supervision and disciplinary justice create confidence in the legal professions. However, the Minister does not show any scientific evidence of this. During the debate on lawyer interrogation two weeks ago, the Minister was still joking about lawyers. Basically, lawyers write more hours than they work. Apparently, the Cabinet considers that the legal professionals in question may suffer from the passing on of these costs. This was also the case for the transfer of supervisory costs to banks and for the transfer of safety investigations to industry. Is the cabinet not contributing to an increase in the burden on business and its citizens by passing on public costs in addition to general taxation? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The political groups of the SP, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals are deeply concerned about the apparent policy of reducing deficits in the budget of individual public services by having these individual public services charged to business and its citizens, in addition to general taxation. Public services seem to be free to do this. Businesses and citizens cannot stand up to this. What is the government's view on this and how does the government ensure that this does not get any further out of hand? I come to the second point: the justification of the bill against the general cabinet policy as laid down in the Maat report keep 2014 and the opinion of the Council of State. The Minister shall state, inter alia, in the further statement of reply of 25 October 2016, that the transfer of the costs of supervision and disciplinary proceedings to the legal professions may be made on the basis of the principle of benefit and the principle of "paying the polluter/polluter'. On the principle of profit, I say the following. The Minister bases his view that the above-mentioned costs could be passed on on the basis of the principle of profit, because supervision and disciplinary law would strengthen the confidence of society in the professions. I would like to hear from the Minister what scientific evidence he bases this on. The Regulatory Instructions, in designation 163, provide for compliance with the review framework set out in the 2014 Maatbehoud report in an arrangement on the calculation of costs for preventive or repressive enforcement. The general principle laid down in Maathouden 2014 is that enforcement of laws and regulations should in principle be financed from general resources, as these activities generally take place for the benefit of the general interest. An exception to this general principle is, according to the report, possible if individual and legal persons or groups of persons and legal persons are identifiable on the basis of specific distinguishing criteria which benefit substantially from supervision and enforcement by the public authorities (the principle of benefit) or if these persons or groups of persons clearly require the public authorities to do more than regular supervision and enforcement (the "causer pays" principle). In the opinion of the SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party, the 2014 Maat report does not provide any substantial benefit for individual legal professionals. If the Minister sees this differently, I'd be happy to hear it. In the 2014 Maat houden report, the concept of "system profile" has been added. If the benefit of the supervision is specific and is to a substantial extent attributable to the supervised group, the costs of supervision may, by way of derogation from the general principle, be passed on. Reference is made to the risky behaviour of one financial institution, which, in addition to its own continuity, may also jeopardise the continuity of other financial institutions if it loses confidence in the whole sector. However, as the Minister writes in the explanatory memorandum, there has been no risk behaviour in the legal professions. The 2014 Maat report also explicitly states that the explicability of the concept of "system manufacturing" should not automatically lead to the calculation of supervisory costs. The establishment of system profile should be done with care. System record will often only be available if the number of parties, such as in the financial sector, is not very large, the product or service is similar and there are equal interests within the group under supervision. The group comprising the system should be able to be delineated on the basis of objective criteria, it should be clear that the members of the group benefit from it, the difference in benefits gained between the different members of the group should not be too great and should not be easily excluded from the group under supervision and the so-called freeriders should not be able to escape from the group. In the sectors formed by large numbers of product providers and service providers for the general public, such as catering and other small and medium-sized enterprises, it can be assumed that the benefit of supervision is not specific and to a substantial extent attributable to the supervised group but to everyone. In such sectors there is no system record and the costs of supervision cannot be passed on. That's what the Maat report says in 2014. In the opinion of the groups of the SP, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, there is in this case no system profession among the legal professionals in question. Here's what I'm going to tell you. There's a world of difference between legal professionals, lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. In addition, there are considerable differences in the professions. There are offices that run only commercial advisory practice. There are offices that only serve the social lawyer or have a mixed practice. The products are not similar. We also note that it is not clear that the members of the group benefit and that the difference in profits between the different members of the group is large. In our view, this involves a large number of product providers and service providers for the general public, which makes it possible to assume that the benefit of supervision is not specific and to a substantial extent attributable to the group under supervision, but to everyone. All the more so, as the Minister himself writes in the further reply, since the work only partly exclusively concerned specific administrative tasks and powers. Could the Minister explain why this bill deviates from the principles of government policy as laid down in the Maat 2014 report, as explained above? I come to my second point: the 'causer/polluter pays' principle. The Minister takes the view that, on the basis of the principle that the causer/polluter pays may be passed on to the professional groups concerned, because risky behaviour and/or the nature of the sector's activities call for more than regular supervision. The Minister considers that, on the basis of the exclusive tasks and powers entrusted to professionals, more than regular supervision is necessary. In the cabinet policy as laid down in the Maat houden 2014 report, the cabinet writes that if a group of persons and legal persons prove that the government requires more than regular supervision and enforcement, it may be reasonable to pass on all or part of the costs incurred for the re-checks to those persons. An example is the company in which irregularities were detected during an initial check-up and which results in re-checks. Even in the event of a breach of a standard, which has already resulted in actual damage, for example, illegal construction works have been built or public order has been violated by a criminal offence. The subsequent enforcement activities and their costs are, in principle, attributable to the offender. In addition, the "causer pays" principle may apply when it concerns potentially risky behaviour and when the nature of activities requires public authorities to exercise more than regular supervision. The nature of the activities may entail such risks to safety that the public authorities are obliged to carry out a high level of supervision, with high costs as a result. As long as these costs are borne by taxpayers, companies will not include these external effects of their actions in their decisions. In this way, the company pays for the costs of, for example, production in the heavy chemicals sector, because they are not included in the selling price of these products. This may constitute a basis for calculating enforcement costs, by way of derogation from the general principle, according to the Maat report. Could the Minister explain why, with this bill, he deviates from the cabinet policy as laid down in the Maat houden 2014 report? After all, the report talks about the possibility of passing on costs of more than regular supervision due to non-compliant and risky behaviour. The Minister is now changing this to fully pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary law in the exercise of his own profession. What scientific evidence does the Minister base on that these professions need more than regular supervision, and what is regular supervision? I come to my third point: 100% throughput of costs. The Council of State's position is that the cabinet rightly takes as its starting point that the costs are not passed on, because monitoring compliance is a public task. If there is reason to make an exception to this, it is important to shape it so that the main rule is not undermined. This means that in any case some of the supervision costs are to be paid from the general budget. What part of the costs is and what part is not passed on and what costs are involved is, in abstracto, a difficult question to answer. This is ultimately a political choice. Next, it is important that the public authorities comply with this decision once they have made it. The department provides a number of points of view for making this choice. In essence, it concerns the demand for the nature and extent of the supervision that the government wants and the price it is willing to pay for it. The Council of State states that it is not intended to pursue purely budgetary objectives. I would like to hear from the Minister why he does not agree with the present legislative proposal to maintain the current cabinet position of 2014 in which "no, unless' applies, nor with the framework as stated by the Council of State, namely by passing 100% of the costs of supervision and disciplinary law to the professional groups. The Council of State shall advise on the costs which cannot be charged, such as the costs of administrative reporting and the costs of appeal and appeal procedures. Despite this, the Minister is charging the costs of disciplinary proceedings with the present legislative proposal. In the opinion of the Council of State, the general interest is dominant here and therefore individual allocation is not appropriate. Furthermore, legal protection is a collective property whose costs should not be charged to users, apart from any right to register. Can the Minister explain why he does not follow the advice of the government's highest advisory body and therefore does not partially pass on the costs? Does the Minister share the view of the Council of State that the government must comply with once-made choices and otherwise reconsider the general government policy? It is clear that the SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party have the necessary doubts about this proposal, in particular because of the contrast between this proposal and the government vision laid down in the Maat report 2014. We also agree with the points raised by Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have the privilege of expressing this contribution on behalf of the OSF Group. In principle, we are looking at legality, enforcement and feasibility. I see the Minister nodding. We are also looking at this today. It's customary. There are many things to note about the feasibility. This was also noted by previous speakers, Mr Van Rij and Mrs Wezel. The feasibility gives immediate problems for the Royal Notarial Brotherhood and the possible guarantee fund and makes it impossible for the Dutch order of lawyers to make an estimate for a budget. First of all, however, I would like to talk about legality. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wants to discuss this proposal in plenary rather than in writing. Otherwise, there might not be enough attention paid to a free exchange of principles which is being implemented in this proposal. It is remarkable, for example, in the margins of the debate, how stubbornly some ideas about the rule of law, which were once cultivated in the relatively short period under the Opstelten-Beven duo in 2011, are still reflected in legislative proposals, which only reach this Chamber many years later, in 2016. Perhaps it is not even remarkable that the Minister is cheerful in defending these proposals, but it is remarkable that they are maintained by the present cabinet, a cabinet that has also agreed on other frameworks in the report to which Mrs Wezel referred. Under the principle of non-intervention, this proposal is apparently also supported by the other coalition partner, but I have not given up hope. We are therefore discussing a proposal in 2016, the political ratio of which has now become obsolete, but whose legal damage will be unabated when it is introduced. Mr President, I cannot have spoken for 12 minutes, as the screen indicates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u6	You are now the same thing that happened to me: time is running down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u7	Oh, yeah. I got myself into trouble because of this remark. Mr. Chairman. The key question relates to the establishment of our rule of law: is the case law a collective good and a public interest that should be publicly funded or can the principle of profit be applied at random? In other words, as soon as the Ministry of Justice is in too tight a financial jacket, are we going to look for posts or parties to the rule of law, partners in what the 'chain of law' is called, shake out to see if money is still falling out of their pockets? I also read in the documents that the Minister is also hoping for 'by-catch', namely that it can all be a bit cheaper and more efficient in disciplinary proceedings. However, that is a completely unproven statement. Moreover, it does not seem to me to be in line with the original starting point of 2011, namely that it was intended to generate money for the Justice budget. It is obvious that that was the guiding principle. Of course, let's be honest about small beer, measured by the state budget, but in 2011 the thought was that all the bits would help. If we go down the road of taxing professional groups that are either unpopular, such as bailiffs, or who are thought to have deep pockets, filled pockets, such as notaries and lawyers, then I find that questionable. Let me help the minister out of the dream: there are many small law firms, sizes and notary offices that have a very difficult financial situation. Mrs Wezel also spoke about this. They cannot generate any extra money to fill the gaps in the national budget. This increases the chance of cutting bends and increases the chance of behaving in such a way as to make ends meet, that these behaviors may be followed up by disciplinary action. Then what you'd like to avoid actually happens. We discussed KEI (Quality and Innovation Justice Programme) and digitisation with the Minister. There are additional research obligations for notaries. There is a great deal of demand from the sector; we all know that. And then this would be added, because it was agreed once in 2011. Doesn't the minister see the shadow side of this, or is his universe determined? I can't imagine that because of the large offices, for which this is not immediately a financial problem? I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. On what basis does he base the idea that this risk is acceptable and that it will not be as bad as tax per professional? That is how I read the documents, and that is how I understand his written response to questions from us. If we want to take the fundamental step towards introducing the principle of profit, we should not do so without a proper balance. Mr Wezel rightly referred to Keep Size 2014. I would add an even more recent political fact, namely the adoption of the De Graaf c.s motion. (33673, letter D) in this house. In that motion, following another debate, the government is asked to consider the passing on of costs of public transactions, including the launch of a balancing framework. The motion was adopted on 22 April 2015 with broad support in this Chamber. The motion called for implementation within one year. It's now eight months in injury time. Minister Plasterk, on behalf of the government, has undertaken to implement the motion, but he has not yet done so. Would this not be a valid reason to wait for this with the proposal we are discussing today? Then it takes place in the correct order. Precisely because of the lack of a balancing framework, it is not a question of argumentation but of administration: the cash must be correct. That's just what we read in the pieces. Does the Minister realise that, once a funding system is introduced by a professional group to help him close the gaps in his budget, not only does money have to be transferred directly into the profession, the entrepreneurs and their employees, but also meeting time? Does he realize that there will always be a debate about scarce resources? The offices must provide money for the disciplinary justice to which they themselves are subject. Then we have to be accountable. Audits must be carried out. Everything has to be done. All this time, it's gonna get rid of the declarable work. I think the minister is familiar with zero hours in the light of his past. It's been said that lawyers write a lot of hours, but zero hours are not declarable. For those within the department involved, it is not a direct problem, but it is a problem for the professional groups themselves. So it's just a burden increase. Do I make a caricature of the proposed approach? I don't think I do. I have read in the response to the questions raised by a number of political groups, including the D66 Group, what the intention is. I quote from that. The Minister writes: "In the framework of the Rutte I Regering Agreement, choices have been made to reduce the pressure on public finances." That was 2011. Then it says: "The financial situation of the Empire brought (and brings) the need to look critically at public expenditure and to consider whether it is still logical in all cases to cover certain costs (fully) from the general budget. In that context, the financial annex of the VVD-CDA-PVV agreement made the choice to impose the costs of supervision and disciplinary law on the legal professions on the professional organisations." I want to say three things about the quote. First of all, the agreement on tolerance is no longer valid. If there is anything that would apply, it is to keep the Maat report, which Mrs Wezel also mentioned. What should also apply is the balancing framework that we are waiting for. Secondly, the state of state finances has improved significantly since 2011. I would remind you that the D66 Group has also taken responsibility for this. We were able to discuss this with Minister Dijsselbloem last week at the General Financial Reviews. Thirdly, this Chamber has a reputation to uphold and should also expect some response from this Minister, given the involvement and support of the Minister of Justice in re-establishing the department and its budget. There's still a lot to wish for. We have had a number of debates on this. I'm also looking at colleague Ruers. Among other things, there was a debate on the state of justice. I recall the Franken motion and the Scholten motion, as well as the discussions on KEI and digitisation. The budget is not yet good, but it has gotten much better both structurally and occasionally. The situation is therefore not comparable to that in 2011. What is proposed here, of course, is not a "ordinary" burden increase, such as a change in the discs in the Tax Plan. The choice to introduce the principle of profit fully into the rule of law is a fundamental choice. It's not like we've been weighed up to stick to a little bit or a little bit. No, it's about introducing the whole thing. This affects a crucial element of the independence of the professions of lawyers and notaries, namely the way in which mutual correction is made to ensure the standards of the profession. That's what the disciplinary justice is for. As co-legislator, we have set up a specific administration of justice in disciplinary justice. It's not like the old days, when the profession did it itself. Because of the public interest, the judiciary is involved. That is what we, as legislators, wanted. Is it not a system error to make that same profession treasurer of this case law? I would ask the Minister to do so. The Council of State makes no mistake about it: a single reference to the inadequate public funding is an insufficient justification for a complete passing on of the costs of disciplinary law. This can easily be illustrated by an example. In the lawyer's case, the blanket has to consider whether to appeal against an imposed measure of discipline. If the blanket is not applicable to notaries too, he knows that this costs his own profession money. That consideration should not play a part at all if we are striving for discipline. Then we'll introduce discipline, but that's the discipline of the market. That is not what we are trying to do here. The amounts mentioned in the reply as an annual cover for the professions shall be significant. The Millions Note does not publish income statements of these groups, but they are decent bites from the assets of a partnership. Surely the Minister must also ensure that a financial discouragement is created in order not to correct the behaviour and not to seek a judge's ruling? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I started my speech with the metaphor of converting a change. If the cabinet changes, I hope that this will not happen, then it will continue on a track in which the profession itself assumes the cost of the 'correction in its own circle'. I do not think that is appropriate in relation to an independent case-law. In a society where an alleged conflict of interest is regularly the opening of the morning newspaper, my group does not only regard it as fundamentally incorrect. It is also unwise for the imagery to want to regulate this in this way. All things considered, the D66 Group believes that this proposal cannot pass the test of criticism. We saw in the pieces that some repairs were announced because there were obvious mistakes. I refer to the collection of the Registry Law by declaring the blanket applicable by Article 46e. It is clear that this cannot be done. The local blankets are faced with an unexecutable regime. The Minister also acknowledges this, but has not yet said when he is going to adapt. So we are dealing with an unexecutable scheme which cannot be repaired. The legality test and the feasibility test are both negative. My group proposes to the Minister that, partly out of courtesy to this Chamber for the lack of the balance-of-payments framework, this effort should not be made and that the proposal should simply not be continued or continued until we have been able to debate the balancing framework in this House. After that, the balance can be made as to whether it could, in part or at all, be taxed in this case. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u8	Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm gonna ask the Minister if a suspension until 2:40 p.m. is okay. I see him nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u9	Ladies and gentlemen. We're moving on. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber who, in the first instance, examined this proposal, made a number of comments on it and asked a number of questions. The amendment of the Law on Lawyers, the Court of Auditors' Act and the Law on Notarials which is before us today has to do with the passing on of the costs of supervision and disciplinary justice to the professions regulated by these laws. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the costs of supervision and disciplinary law are no longer financed by general funds, but are fully financed by the free professionals themselves. This choice is justified, in the opinion of the Cabinet, because the interests of lawyers, bailiffs and notaries are largely served by proper supervision and disciplinary law. This also serves the interests of clients using the services of these professions. Other professions, in legal and financial services, also pay for their own supervision and disciplinary rights. I take as an example the tax advisors and accountants. Tax advisors have an association law. Auditors' organisations pay the full supervisory costs incurred by the AFM for the supervision of auditors. We also know more widely in society the situation that regulators are paid in full by the sector. Think of the Gaming Authority and the Dutch Food and War Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u11	The minister talks about supervision, but I'm talking about disciplinary justice. I recall from the treatment of the Auditors' Supervision Act in December 2012 that Article 21 of that Act does state that disciplinary justice is financed from the general budget. It may have changed in the meantime, but I would like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u12	I will come back to that in second term. In any case, I note that the order of lawyers, and therefore the individual members, the lawyers, pays the supervisory costs themselves. I see no reason why I shouldn't introduce that for bailiffs and notaries, too. I come first to the principle of profit and then to the basis for the calculation. I will also say something about the date of entry into force of the laws and about the finances. Finally, I will answer the other questions. First, the principle of profit. What does this mean, in the opinion of the Cabinet, for the legal professions? It should be noted that lawyers, bailiffs and notaries benefit from supervision and disciplinary law. These contribute to the integrity of the professions. It goes without saying that supervision and disciplinary law also serve a general interest, but this does not mean that the costs of supervision and disciplinary law should be paid from the general funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u13	The Minister states that it is established that the professions benefit from this. What does the Minister base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u14	This is based on the law and on the growing practice that lawyers, bailiffs and notaries have to a large extent a monopoly position in the Netherlands. Look at the process monopoly. Notaries have powers under the law which other legal professionals do not have. Doorkeepers are in the same situation. Why do they have these powers? They have them because they are under supervision and discipline and because they make high demands on their own quality and ability. This justifies having a protected position in our society and allowing them to provide a certain service in a number of areas of priority over others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u15	What scientific evidence does the Minister have for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u16	The Minister doesn't have to have any scientific evidence for that. The Minister can conclude that the law works in such a way that lawyers have a procedural monopoly in the Netherlands, that only notaries have the power to pass notarial acts and that only bailiffs have the power to act as bailiffs. That is how the system works in the Netherlands. For this reason, therefore, these professions have been given a special position in our society and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u17	It also serves a general interest that we have properly regulated supervision and disciplinary law. Many citizens have to hire a lawyer or notary for certain actions, or if they want to appeal. It may also happen that the law obliges them to do so. Surely it is in the general interest that there is proper supervision of these professions? Surely it is in the interests of the rule of law that this is properly organised? It is not just about the interests of the professions themselves, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u18	Exactly. That's what I just said. I have also indicated that there is a general interest. On the basis of this general interest, I consider as a minister in my responsibility, together with the professions, what needs they have in this area and what needs to be done. This Chamber has discussed in detail with my predecessor, Secretary of State Teeven, the new supervisory system in the legal profession. That system is a success. The lawyer also took up his role in that regard. The lawyer considers that serving the general interest is in his own interest in such a way as to strengthen supervision. That's what happened with the new college. Thus the roles are divided, but this does not mean that the government, at least the taxpayer, would have to pay for the costs. The question is whether that is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u19	The fact that the professions recognise that this is also in their interest does not mean that the principle of benefit applies immediately? It's a collective interest. The Council of State has also indicated this. The Minister recognizes that, too. Why do we not arrange for this part of the judicial chain to be properly monitored and for people to have access to a disciplinary court if they think that there has not been proper action? This is not only in the interests of the professions, but also in the interests of the rule of law and citizens. Even if the profession recognizes that part of it is self-interest, does it not mean that the principle of profit applies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u20	Mrs Strik states that it is of general interest that there is proper supervision and disciplinary law. I agree with her. This does not mean that the conclusion must automatically be drawn that all taxpayers, including those who will never use a notary, a bailiff or a lawyer, must contribute to this. I can't follow the one-to-one conclusion that some spokesmen have drawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u21	But neither does the one-to-one conclusion that there should be the application of the principle of profit. The distinction between citizens who never sue and citizens who do sue is different at any time in time. Those aren't decorated groups. Financing from the general budget is for the general interest. We must continue to be careful to use the term "domain monopoly." When we talk about a domain monopoly, we come to a completely different domain, that of the ACM (Authority Consumer & Market), competition. That is an area in which we may also have to talk about prices and that sort of thing. I don't think that's the issue here. Moreover, mandatory process representation does not apply to all bodies. I think that the step of one-on-one is being taken far too easily, and that is also the portee of my argument, in fact, without a proper balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u22	I have taken note of Mr Backer's position on this point, but I do not agree with him. I already explained that. I will do my best to convince Mr Backer, when replying to the other questions, that things are different. I note that the general interest means that this is well arranged. I conclude, looking at those who have the greatest interest in ensuring that this is regulated and that there is supervision, that these are the professional groups themselves. According to the Cabinet, this justifies this legislation, which has been very careful and has gone a very long way. Mr Backer indicated that it all started with the agreements made by the CDA and the VVD in the Rutte I cabinet. At that time, it was also felt that there were good reasons to pass on the costs in this respect in a similar way for everyone. Also in the current situation, the lawyer contributes more to the supervision costs than, for example, the notary. Then it is right that the order of lawyers should ask whether we ensure that the others contribute in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u23	I'll just keep my gunpowder dry. I maintain that the general interest is at stake here and not the benefit of a profession. I hope that the Minister will take this into account in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u24	I have already included that in my speech. I am glad that Mr Backer also points this out once again. We have two things. The general interest requires a proper regime for supervision and disciplinary law. To a large extent, this is done by the professions themselves. I greatly appreciate the steps taken by the order of lawyers in recent years. It has itself been recognised that it was necessary to take additional steps in the area of supervision, precisely in the interests of the profession itself. That wasn't just imposed from above. The order of lawyers has indicated the importance of strengthening supervision, as society must have confidence in individual lawyers and in the quality of their services. All kinds of measures have been taken to this end. It is self-evident that supervision and quality are very important for the confidence that people should be able to have in that profession. At the same time, the justification is that there are to some extent monopolies in the three areas. There's some ifs and buts. In administrative law, we have chosen, for good reasons, not to carry out the mandatory process representation, because we believe that people should be able to conduct these processes independently. Mr Backer and I will very soon agree that it might be wise to hire a lawyer after all. As far as the principle of profit is concerned, I come to the conclusion, perhaps not shared by all the members of the Chamber, that the general interest requires proper regulation, but that the general interest does not require that the costs of it be automatically passed on to the general budget and to the general taxpayer, who will not necessarily ever make direct use of it himself. I come to the questions put by Mrs Wezel on the principle of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u25	The cabinet has created a review framework. That review framework shall be used to assess whether a calculation can be made. I have worked it all out and, on that basis, do not rely on the principle of profit. All these steps indicated in the cabinet policy, the Minister does not end here. I ask the Minister to pass that test on the principle of profit step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u26	Of course, she passed by. There's no other way. That is what we have done extensively with each other in the documents. The Maat report is based on this, among other things. The ratio is that professionals themselves have that advantage. Next, the Maat report explains the principle of profit. This is linked to the fact that the procedural monopoly, the domain monopoly, implies that the customer must be able to rely on the legal professional. Therefore, I do not agree with Mrs Wezel that government policy would not have been followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u27	I'll walk that one step at a time. System record will often only be available if the number of parties, as in the financial sector, is not very large. Is it big or small? Are there many providers, many lawyers, notaries and bailiffs, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u28	The answer to that is: there are only lawyers, only notaries and only bailiffs and therefore no one else. That justifies exactly why you can come here to these steps in the bill. There is no one but a lawyer, a notary and a bailiff who is allowed to do the work laid down for them under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u29	You've got nothing but banks. The Maat report indicates: if the number of parties, as in the financial sector, is not large. So there are a lot of lawyers, notaries and bailiffs. It says: if the product or service is similar. That is not the case either. It is also not the case that there are equal interests within the group under supervision. It should be possible to define the group comprising the system on the basis of objective criteria. That is not the case either. It must be clear that the members of the group benefit. That is not the case either. Nor should the difference in benefits enjoyed between the different members of the group be too great. That is not the case either. And supervised people should not be able to escape from the group easily. I ask the Minister to walk all these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u30	I'd be happy to do that with Mrs. Wezel. But everything that Mrs Wezel says is not, I think, is fulfilled. There are only notaries, only lawyers and only bailiffs allowed to perform attorneys, notaries and bailiffs. Mrs Wezel then says that there are a lot of them, but there are only notaries. There's no one else. Last week I received a letter from a lawyer from The Hague who asked: why can't I also sue the Supreme Court? You can't do it unless you're a lawyer. Numerically speaking, with 17,000 lawyers out of my head, that group is pretty big, but that's not meant in the report. It is a defined group of rights and therefore obligations that no one else has. Mrs Wezel is ignoring that. As a lawyer, you can't avoid supervision. If you do, you'll lose your status as a lawyer. Mrs Wezel says of all these steps that this is not the case, but it is the case. That is why this bill takes into account the Maat report. It is a separate professional group with special powers which has great importance in maintaining its own quality, because only that quality justifies having a special position in our society. The choice of calculation has been explained and substantiated, also in relation to the questions put by Mrs Wezel in several instalments, for which I would like to thank you very much. I understand that there are also more negative noises in professional organisations than in this legislative proposal. If you have to pay something when you didn't have to do it before, I can understand why people would rather not do it. At the same time, the lawyers say: why do we have to pay for our supervision, why do we see that interest and has not yet been addressed to the notaries and bailiffs? I can very well follow that reasoning. Nor should we forget that all the parties involved are entrepreneurs. This means that they can all in their own way pass on the additional costs that will eventually be passed on to them in their services. They can all make their own choices. I admit immediately to Mr Backer that there must be someone to be found somewhere, for example in the legal profession or in the notary. In recent years it has not been easy in the notaries. Fortunately, the number of acts in 2016 shows an explosive increase. This means that, fortunately, the work is increasing again, for which the government has always worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u31	I'm guessing the minister blames that on cabinet policy. Let's put this ball on the dot, so the minister can head him off. I mean the increase in the number of deeds. There is always a confusing element in the Minister's speech. I think we should clarify that. I hear the Minister constantly talking about supervision and funding of supervision by the lawyer, but we are talking about disciplinary justice. In his speech I hear that there is some opposition here and there, but that it has already been implemented in the legal profession. No, we reach completely different messages: order and brotherhood have major problems with these proposals. Normally, I wouldn't think that's so crazy, because if you have to pay more, you're gonna resist it, but in this case, I think it's even very justified. Where does the Minister base his opinion that the field would be positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u32	I have said quite honestly that I understand very well why there are hesitations in the professional organisations concerned about this bill. I just said, of course, it's not nice to have to pay for something you didn't pay for. I didn't leave any ambiguity about that at all. At the same time, the lawyer does say: we pay our own supervision, why should not the notaries and bailiffs, who are in the same position as us, namely a monopoly position on the basis of statutory regulations, take that step too? The government then says: but that also applies to disciplinary law. Mr Backer has a point to make when he says that it has not been there so far. But for this too, the government believes that this can be done in all reasonable terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u33	The Minister says quite laconically: they are entrepreneurs, who really know how to pass the costs on to their clients. In the case of various legislative proposals and also in the budget, we have repeatedly expressed our concerns about these clients and their ability to obtain justice from the courts. What does the Minister think of that, in the light of this bill? Did he have the money passed on what that passing on to clients would mean? Couldn't it set another threshold for clients to take up a lawyer and go to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u34	From my point of view, I know from the notaries that the introduction of the bill would mean €3 additional costs per act. By 2015, this would be €3,30 per deed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u35	Did you have that passed on to the attorney's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u36	I thought so, but I don't have those numbers ready right now. I will give you an insight into that in the second term. For the record, this is already the case with the legal profession in the area of supervision. Only the disciplinary part would be added to that. By definition, that's a much smaller part. In the past, too, no problems have arisen in passing on supervisory costs to the profession and subsequently to clients. For the latter one has to choose. They don't have to, because they're entrepreneurs. It's not up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u37	Will the Minister still be able to deepen the supervisory framework? Or is it just the debate he just had with Mr Wezel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u38	I just wanted to say a few things to Mrs Wezel about the burden increase. I would like to say to Mrs Strik that, in the case of bailiffs, half a percent of their turnover is involved. So that's to be seen. Mr Backer asked for more information on the implementation of the De Graaf motion (33673, letter D). I understand that on 13 April the Minister for Foreign Affairs informed this Chamber that he intended to await the information already discussed by the State Council before implementing the said motion. An interdepartmental working group was then set up. It will consider what this information means for government policy on the transfer of supervisory and enforcement costs. The working group will present its findings in the first months of 2017. The Maat houden report is in any case still standing policy of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u39	I understand that, in the first quarter of 2017, we will get an insight from the Cabinet, heard from the Council of State, into a balancing framework, when this arrangement is going ahead unexpectedly. That's crazy if order of things, I'd be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u40	That would be strange if there was no report called Maathouden 2014, based on the cabinet policy and the government agreement between CDA and VVD in 2010, the Rutte I cabinet, a report that will be carried out over and over again. For this reason, I assume that there will be no substantial changes in spring 2017. In any case, on the basis of what is ahead, I believe that this bill is in line with what has been government policy since 2010. That hasn't changed by Rutte II. I very much appreciate that Mr Van Rij has indicated that he does not see any objections in principle to the transfer of costs. I have talked extensively with the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation about this bill, in particular in connection with the bill it wants on the guarantee fund. We have to be honest: the KNB also has the possibility of simply implementing the bill by means of a binding regulation of its members. There is therefore no need for a legislative proposal for this. But I do understand that the KNB would appreciate it if I helped her with such a bill. I have agreed to this: that bill has already been put into practice. I'm going to be able to submit that bill in spring 2017. The question before us is whether it is useful to allow the operation of the law to take effect only from 1 January 2018. If it is, it should mean that it applies to everyone. I would prefer not to do so in principle, because the 2017 budget has already entered an amount for the introduction of this bill. I will think about this during this debate, considering whether I can meet Mr van Rij on this point. That takes some time, because I still have to think about the question, how do I solve the problem that I create for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u41	I understand now that the Minister really wants to go into the suggestion I made, namely that the entry into force of this law will be suspended until 1 January 2018, assuming that the legislative proposal guarantee fund has then passed through the legislative process by Parliament, and that he will then say: but that applies not only to the KNB, but also to the lawyers and the bailiffs. The Minister wants to think about it for a while. But I think he's had about two minutes to do that. I would simply like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u42	I understand very well that Mr Van Rij says. I have talked extensively with the KNB about this, and I also understand her dilemma, which I have also indicated. I am not in control of whether the bill will have been dealt with by both chambers in a year's time. I am therefore not going to link these two proposals. However, I have promised to the KNB, and I am now doing so to Mr Van Rij, that we will, for our part, come forward very quickly with a draft legislative proposal which regulates the guarantee fund. I am prepared to allow the entry into force of Mr Van Rij's comments to take place on 1 January 2018. But it must be, because on that date everyone must have clarity. I cannot associate all of this with the conduct of the parliamentary examination of the proposal on the guarantee fund, which I am, as you know, not in control. I am counting on the support of Mr Van Rij and his colleagues to ensure that we can deal with this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u43	To get it right: you say that this law will enter into force no later than 1 January 2018. Equal monks, equal hoods; this applies to notaries, lawyers and bailiffs. You say that it depends on the pace of the parliamentary process whether or not the law on the guarantee fund comes soon. If that law comes after 1 January 2018, the notaries still have a bridge. However, everything points to the fact that, if I may put it that way, this is not the most difficult law you make. You've already set this in motion. It is therefore likely that this law should be able to pass through Parliament in the course of 2017. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u44	You understand that very well. You can write this down as a commitment from this minister to your group on your suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u45	Then, if that's okay, I have one last question. That question is about the position of the lawyers. Or are you going to go into that later? The Dutch order of lawyers has explicitly asked for clarity on the cost transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u46	I'm gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u47	Fine, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u48	I will deal with this in the context of the issue of finance, but first of all I will deal with Mrs Strik's question as to what this would cost a lawyer. It has been calculated that this would be at €70 per lawyer. Each Dutch lawyer is confronted with €70 in additional costs. All in all, that's 1.2 million on a turnover of over 500 million for the legal profession as a whole. I'm getting to the finance block. I am right on the point that Mr Van Rij has rightly raised. Of course, the Dutch order of lawyers must also know what to take into account. The budgets of the Disciplinary Colleges and the BFT (Financial Supervision Office), the body supervising the bailiffs and the notaries, are determined by me, after hearing the professional groups. The budgets of the Disciplinary Colleges and the BFT will be received before the end of the year. The costs will not or will hardly differ from those already shared with this Chamber but also with the professions. That's the point, of course. This means that the 1.2 million I have just referred to as Mrs Strik can be taken into account for the legal profession. So before the end of the year, everyone knows exactly what is going on before 2017, but bearing in mind my commitment to Mr Van Rij, this will only apply from 1 January 2018. Mr Backer asked whether the additional costs could be borne by the professions. This amounts to €3 per deed in the notary, €70 per lawyer and 0.5% of the total turnover of the bailiffs. I think those costs can be borne. As far as the legal profession is concerned, this is, of course, only a relatively small increase, because it already borne a large part of the costs of supervision. This applies to a lesser extent to notaries and bailiffs, but also to them that they can pass the costs on to their customers or clients. In this context, it is, of course, important to keep separate what the committee is going to do to the bailiffs to examine the rates and how that relates to this bill. The Btag rates are the rates that may be passed on to debtors under the law. Those are the rates that the bailiffs are allowed to charge to those whose claims are made. The government has always been extremely cautious and cautious about this, because of course this often comes on top of an already existing debt. In addition, some people are faced with a combination of debts. For this reason, these Btag rates have always been set very conservatively. They have never been adjusted in recent years. We've had a preliminary investigation done. This showed that four tariffs are no longer cost-effective. That would be in favour of having the bailiffs also done so in order to raise those rates in advance. I have said that I think that this is risky, because it may well be possible to adjust the rates downwards in a number of areas. If I just adjust something up and nothing down, I burden the debtors disproportionately. When it comes to natural persons, they are generally people who may be in a very plighted position. For this reason, I have said that it is justified to conduct a proper investigation, because I understand the bailiffs very well. We're gonna do that investigation. This will lead to an opinion on what those Btag tariffs should be. It is a misconception that the turnover of bailiffs consists of Btag tariffs. That's not true. In addition to the rates they may charge to the debtors, they make agreements with their clients on what they can charge for their services. Partly this is about bailiff work and part of it is, as we know, about collection work. Most bailiffs engage not only in duties, but also in a very wide collection practice. This means that there is no direct relationship between the Btag rates and the turnover of a bailiff and also what he charges the client. It is therefore very important that we look carefully at these Btag rates, but there is no need to take those rates into account in relation to this bill. Both things can be done: the bill can simply be implemented, without any downward or upward adjustment of those Btag rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u49	Thank you for this very clear statement. However, I have an additional question about the category of clients for the bailiffs. In the previous correspondence with the Committee on Security and Justice of the First Chamber, the bailiffs indicated that one of their largest clients is the Central Judicial Collection Office. Then we don't talk about debtors and Btag tariffs. If I have followed your argument correctly, this should be subject to 'commercial' tariffs. The complaint of the bailiffs, as I recall, is that they are actually running a bit on the leash of the Central Judicial Board, because that simply determines the rates they are allowed to charge. They have argued this as one of the arguments to indicate how difficult it will be for them to pass on those rates if these costs of supervision and disciplinary justice come to them. Do you recognise this and what can you, as Minister of Justice, do about it and what can you not do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u50	Yes, I recognize the image and also the complaints. You have to be careful about that, because the new tendering procedure is currently under way. The new procurement procedure has improved in a number of areas compared to the previous procurement procedure, which was the subject of many complaints. A number of fixed rates which were very much opposed have been abandoned in the tender procedure. The number of lots that can be awarded in the tender has been increased, giving more bailiffs, including smaller offices, the possibility to tender for the tender of lots or for the procurement as a whole. A number of bailiffs have brought interim proceedings, which will serve on 22 December. Furthermore, I cannot say much about the substance of this, except that the whole idea behind this call for tenders is that it is a careful call for tenders that can enable the parties to take on the important work of the public authorities in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u51	I have one final short question, and thank you for this clear answer. Depending on how that tender procedure will run, the court bailiffs will therefore have a more eye-catching perspective for 2017 that they will most likely be able to pass on some higher rates, including to the Central Judicial Board or that the market opportunities will be improved in any case. As far as debtors are concerned, once the committee has completed its work, there will also be an update on the Btag rates. That fits perfectly with your earlier commitment. The year 2017 can then be picked up in a good way for the bailiffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u52	I happened to speak on the other side last week in a general discussion about the bailiffs. The board of the bailiffs' organisation, the KBvG (Koninklijke Beroepsorganisatie van Brechtsbeurwaarders), was there. We have good and warm contacts with them, because we share the concern for the important work of the bailiff. This is precisely the dilemma outlined by Mr Van Rij: the Btag rates obviously have a lot to do with vulnerable groups, those who leave claims unpaid, and the bailiff, by its nature, takes into account not only the interests of his client but also the interests of the creditor; that is why it is a post and not just an entrepreneur. Mr Backer asked whether the austerity objective is not outdated. He thinks he sees so much room in the budget that we should not do this. Apart from the discussion of principle, I have just indicated that implementation after 1 January 2018, as requested by the CDA Group, will pose a structural problem of between 5 million and 9 million for 2017. I'm gonna have to cover that up for a while. I haven't found cover for that yet. This means that in principle it must be charged to another amount in my budget. I would also like to say to Mr Backer that I am sure we will talk more about it when we talk about my budget in this House, that despite the enormous additional funds, my department is still being asked, and rightly so, to cut parts. Mr Backer asked whether it was a financial deterrent to correct behavior. That is not the case. Professionals, as before, remain bound by their own professional rules. It is on this basis that supervision and disciplinary proceedings are based. This proposal does not change that. I am convinced that no one will be guided by indirect financial incentives for the profession. For that too, supervision and disciplinary law are far too important. The costs are also clear. Finally, I come to a number of other questions. Mr Van Rij asked a question about the committee's review of rates of duty bailiffs. I answered that question. Mr Backer asked whether it was not a system error to make justice treasurer of disciplinary law. I think it is very important that disciplinary colleges are put together as they have been put together. The starting point is not to give satisfaction to the complainant but to keep the appeal clean. That's the point. If the complainant is satisfied by that, then that is a good thing. But the essence is real: to ensure that the profession remains above all doubt. Finally, Mr Backer asked whether I could not postpone the legislative proposal. I can't. I can postpone the entry into force of the law, as I have already promised Mr Van Rij. I am in good consultation with the Dutch barristers about the way in which this is dealt with through a separate legislative proposal. This concerns the question of who is entitled to receive the right of appeal under the Rules of Procedure of the Court of First Instance. There's no need to postpone the bill for that reason. We will change it on the next occasion. I am in consultation with interested parties on how we can work it out in the meantime. It is also very important for the legal profession itself and for the profession concerned that a threshold be set by means of a procedural law in order to prevent grievances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u53	I am missing something, going through this debate and, in particular, hearing the interaction between the Minister and Mr Van Rij. Apparently, the entry into force can be postponed until 2018. That seems to me to be a good thing, because I think it is not yet ripe and there will be problems of implementation. However, this also says something about the urgency of this bill, which has been in the pipeline since 2011. If this is indeed the case and if some fundamental points have been raised at the same time in this debate on the balancing framework, what is the Minister's concern to reverse the order of things, to say that I shall first let the Chamber discuss the balancing framework and then resume the discussion? Of course, he'll have the ambition to finish this. I understand that, because every minister has such ambition. But what would be the right order? If the Chamber wishes to speak first about the balancing framework, it must undertake to do so soon after receipt of the letter. Then treatment can be resumed. I'm trying to figure out what the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u54	I don't think it's necessary. It's very simple. All the questions that have been asked here have been answered properly. I do not see the problem of implementation raised by Mr Backer. We are in good consultation with all the parties involved. In all these years, this bill has been dealt with very carefully, even here in the Chamber. If I'm not mistaken, there have been three written rounds. There has also been every room for discussion and debate. It is also a very nice conclusion today. I can tell you that Mr Backer is not convinced yet, but I will do another claroon bang over it in the second term, and I may be able to do so. As far as I am concerned, this bill is now ready for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u55	I am intrigued that the implementation problems raised by Mr Van Rij lead to a postponement until 2018, but that the Minister says that there are no implementation problems when I bring this issue down fundamentally. I find that very strange. Can the Minister explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u56	That's two different things. Mr Van Rij pointed out that the Royal Notarial Professional Organization had indicated that it was difficult to commit its members to the bill by means of a regulation. She'd rather do that on the basis of a law. I have indicated to Mr Van Rij that this is not really necessary. This profession can do this itself, as the Dutch barristers' order does and has done so in terms of supervision costs. However, I have agreed to the request. I understand the argument. I'm gonna take care of this organization. I do that together with her and hope for that reason too that we can organise it very quickly. In this context, I do not think it is unreasonable for Mr Van Rij to ask: if you do have that willingness, will you not allow it to be applied on the same date for everyone? I think that is a good example of a careful exchange of views between the government and the Chamber. I would point out, however, that I bear the financial consequences of this. I'll take care of it myself. I do not see any fundamental objections to this. I think it is a good example of how, in this Chamber once in a while, commitments are obtained from the cabinet in the interests of professional groups close to our hearts. Mr Van Rij succeeded well. This brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u57	Mrs Wezel, you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u58	I had asked questions about the burden increase, but I have not yet heard any answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u59	I have explained very clearly to Mrs Strik what we are talking about. It's 70 bucks a lawyer. That's an amount you don't have to worry about so much. Based on the current volume, the current number of documents, you will get €3 per deed. For no one who has to do with a notarial deed, whether that is when buying a house or transferring shares, €3 will cause more or less a problem. I've also indicated what's going on with the bailiffs. So I see no burden increase in that sense. I do see, however, the basic choice of taking supervision and disciplinary law into account among those groups that benefit most from it and who have the greatest interest in keeping their own organisation in order to justify having a special position under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u60	I quote one of my questions: 'The SP, GroenLinks and the Animal Party have serious concerns about the apparent policy of dealing with deficits in the budget of individual public services by, in addition to general taxation, charging these individual public services and their own contributions to business and its citizens. Public services seem to be free to do this. Businesses and citizens cannot stand up to this. What is the government's view on this and how does the government ensure that this does not get any further out of hand?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u61	I cannot reply in general terms on behalf of the cabinet. All I have is this bill. For all kinds of reasons, I think it is fundamentally right that the costs of supervision and disciplinary law should be passed on to the three professions concerned by this law. I don't recognize the picture from my position. I am not engaged in similar activities in other areas. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no need for concern. However, I hope that the President will not blame me for this in the context of this debate, because I am not sufficiently prepared to do so and I am not sufficiently aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u62	Now let's move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief in second term. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed answers to the first-term questions we have put. I indicated in the first term that the CDA Group has no objection in principle to the path chosen in this legislative proposal, namely to pass on the costs of supervision and disciplinary justice. So I do not need to repeat that, nor do I need to repeat the arguments that go with it. The Minister has done so on his side. We would like to point out that this draft law has a very long history. In that sense, I agree with what the Minister said. This bill has also had a careful written procedure in this house. As far as we are concerned, this is the final stage and we have tried to put the points on the i in terms of implementation and implementation aspects. They are also inspired by the three professional organisations. I note that in this debate the Minister has made a commitment that the law will enter into force on 1 January 2018 for all three professional organisations. It is expected that the law guarantee fund for the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation will be submitted to the Second and First Chambers and that this will lead to positive decision-making in 2017. It is also expected that before the end of the year, the Dutch order of lawyers will have an insight into the cost allocation in the light of the budget submitted by him, so that he can adjust his budget accordingly. It is also expected that constructive consultations will take place with the bailiffs, including on the Btag. This will have to lead to a new decision. By the way, we assume that this will be there in 2017. At the same time, our hope is that in the open tender procedure there will be more room for the bailiffs both in terms of scope and in the calculation of tariffs to clients. I will take the answers back to my group. I thank the Minister for his clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Minister why he believes that justice should not be financed from the general budget, but can be passed on to the citizen or, in this case, to the entrepreneurs. The 2014 Maat houden report clearly refers to "no, unless" in terms of charging costs. That "unless" applies only if it meets certain conditions or circumstances. Questions were asked about this in the rounds before this. There's been a treatment in the Lower House. There has now been a discussion here in which I have clearly asked those questions. The minister just doesn't answer it. He's just repeating his mantra. I would like the Minister to respond to the questions I asked in the first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. That in detail is not the same as I have to say that it is satisfactory. There is a constantly confusing mix of disciplinary justice and supervision. The presentation of the views of the parties concerned, the order and the fraternity, as if it were a welcome improvement in their mutual correction mechanisms, does not seem to me to be correct. Obviously, I've heard quite different things. The most important thing is perhaps the balancing framework. This debate shows that this is very unbalanced; I would like to say at random. One time it's about the number of deeds in the notary. The other time it's only €3 per deed. That's not the way we're supposed to deal with this matter, is it? But then the mantra returns that it has been agreed, that the principle of profit is good and that it must be done. There was an interesting interaction with colleague Van Rij about the introduction per 2018. The Minister sees and can respond to the points raised by Mr Van Rij. This concerns, among other things, the guarantee fund. The Minister therefore takes all three organisations to which the bill applies at once. I would like to invite the Minister to extend the courtesy he has to Mr Van Rij in relation to the whole Chamber. Legal opinions should not be decided by 50 plus 1 in my opinion. I also think I know that this afternoon the BZK Committee asked for a letter from the Minister of BZK to inform this Chamber as soon as possible about the balancing framework. I think it is only right to wait for that letter to be dealt with before we deal with this bill or at least vote on it. There may be a third term. I also note that courtesy should actually go so far that, if the Minister is prepared to carry out the budgetary setback that is clear in its size, let us be real about it until 2018, we should continue to deal with the legislative proposal until then or at a time before that time. Why wouldn't we? Then we'd do it in the royal order. First comes the response of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Then we'll discuss it in this house. Then we resume the debate and test it against the framework. Otherwise, we would have the strange figure that, in the first quarter of 2017, if I understood the Minister's planning correctly, we would be talking about a new review framework, which might lead to a different balance in this house. Perhaps that is not the case with the Minister, because he has an agreement with a government that no longer exists. But still, it could play a full part here in the debate and in the consideration. I understand from the debate so far that the Minister is hesitant about this. To help in this direction, my group has tabled a motion for a resolution. The President shall: Mr Backer, Mr Ruers, Mr Wezel, Mr Strike, Mr De Graaf and Mr English proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, pursuant to the De Graaf motion (33673, letter D, adopted on 21 April 2015), it was requested that a government review be sent to this Chamber within one year of the date on which the costs of public transactions were passed on, including the initiation of a balancing framework;]] [[noting that this consideration has not been received so far, while the Government is threatening to rely on this outcome by legislative proposal 34145;]] [[whereas the proposal is also at odds with government policy as laid down in the 2014 Maat report;]] [[noting that implementation problems are already foreseen when the proposed proposal is introduced;]] [[expresses its opinion that the proposal should be retained until the abovementioned consideration has been received and discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34145-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u66	Mr. Chairman. My colleague, Mr Wezel, has expertly expressed my group's position and concerns, for which I thank her. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering her questions and those of other spokesmen. However, the Minister has not been able to convince my group, in principle, of the need to pass the costs of supervision and disciplinary law on to the professions. Of course, supervision and disciplinary law contribute to the quality and integrity of these professions. This serves not only their interest, but also the public interest. Citizens not only have to deal with one of the professions of their own free will, but often also because the legislation obliges them to do so or because they make use of the statutory and treaty-based right of access to justice. The professions are part of the judicial chain and are also linked to the rule of law. It is therefore also an interest of the rule of law itself and therefore of the public interest that integrity and quality be monitored. The principle of profit does not therefore apply here. Also, the Council of State does not consider legal protection costs suitable for passing on, because this is a collective good. The polluter pays principle is also flawed here. It is a question of regular supervision, which is not the result of risky behaviour. Disciplinary law is a form of legal protection which is not directly linked to the inauspicious behaviour of the professions, but is important for the prevention and learning of errors. Moreover, the profession has no influence on the development of the costs of supervision and disciplinary law. That is not because of their behaviour, because even though they behave properly, we want to maintain supervision and disciplinary law, within the framework of prevention. They do not affect the development of costs by the organisation of supervision and disciplinary law. They only have a very marginal voice in that. On both points, the principle of profit and the 'polluter pays' principle, the Minister also deviates from the own criteria set out in the 2014 Maat report, as Mrs Wezel and others have clearly stated. The Minister did not provide a satisfactory justification for this. Let me compare one point, which illustrates that it is becoming more and more arbitrary. The Minister says that not every taxpayer uses these professions and that it is therefore right to pass on the costs. A while ago, we had a discussion here about the costs of the police. He's got a public job to do. The Minister then said that you should not directly attribute those costs to events or specific events, because public order is a public interest. We all have an interest in maintaining public order. That goes for this too. If you take the public interest in ensuring the quality and integrity of these professions as part of the judicial chain, you just have to pull the wallet for that. In the end, it is a pressing question: what do we have for a well-functioning rule of law? That is why we wholeheartedly support Mr Backer's motion. We consider the review framework to be extremely important. We want the 2014 Maat report not to be interpreted randomly, but to have a real enforcement and criterion-setting value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u67	The Minister has the floor for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank those Members who have spoken in the second term. I would like to thank Mr Van Rij for his presentation and list the commitments I made in our exchanges. I can confirm to him that he gave the correct summary. Mrs Wezel asked why justice is not paid out of the general budget; that remains a bit of the debate between me and Mrs Wezel. This is not a case-law in the ordinary sense of the word, but a disciplinary case-law in a professional group of professionals who have a special privilege and have special obligations in return. One of these is, for example, keeping one's own organisation clean. This is given serious consideration by all three professions. That justifies this bill being the way it is. Mrs Wezel does not agree with that, I know that, but I can only conclude that we do not seem to agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u69	I don't quite understand. For example, the auditors also have disciplinary proceedings, but that is not the case. Why does it happen to one person and not to the other? This leads to inequality. It's all justice and it's laid down in the law. It's not a product you just buy. The documents show that, in most cases, there are unfounded complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u70	Yes, but I do not see what that argument is, because that only calls for an additional threshold in the form of higher registry fees. If Mrs Wezel thinks that this is the intention, I can understand it, although it might not lead to other policies, because I think you should be very careful about that. That is why we are also very careful in the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, many unfounded complaints are being made, and that is a great concern of the professions. However, that does not mean that you do not have the right to file a complaint if you yourself feel that your case has not been dealt with adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u71	I asked a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u72	Yes. Mrs Wezel said once again that she felt that the Maat report was not being done justice. I explained to her in detail that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u73	I am sorry, but I was just asking why it does not apply to auditors and why it should apply to judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u74	Oh, sorry, I thought I'd been very clear about that in the first term. Accountants pay for their disciplinary justice. They're under control of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u75	That's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u76	Mrs Wezel, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u77	They are under the control of the AFM (Financial Markets Authority) and the costs are borne by the auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u78	Yes, the costs of supervision, but not the costs of disciplinary justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u79	Yeah, the cost of surveillance. There's a difference. I'm not about the accountants, but then you should say it should apply to accountants as well. If Mrs Wezel thinks so, I will pass on that message to my colleague in the Economic Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u80	I do not understand the consideration: why one does and not the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u81	Because, in this particular case, the justification is found in aligning the situation of the three professions providing services on the basis of special privileges. That's the point. That is why the legislative proposal is as it was agreed at the time, a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u82	Article 21 of the Disciplinary Court Act states that the costs of the Audit Board are to be borne by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u84	But that is not what the Minister just said in the debate with Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u85	No. I just corrected that. That was about supervision. The costs of supervision by the AFM are borne by the auditors. The costs of disciplinary proceedings shall be borne by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u86	We can also extend this debate to medical disciplinary law, which is covered by the VWS budget, or to veterinary medicine, or to all kinds of professions. There's a whole palette of arrangements. It is important that we discuss and decide these things in a certain harmony. The Minister's getting over this a little easy. I am not a formalist at all, but this is about important decisions in the disciplinary justice system. I think the Minister is getting over that too easily. He believes that this can be decided in isolation. Will the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u87	Mr Backer thinks I deal too easily with it, but if a legislative proposal after five or six years leads to a final debate in the First Chamber, you cannot call it 'too easy'. There has been a wide-ranging exchange of views with both chambers, including the Upper Chamber, because the views on the proposal as it stands have been divided. That is clear from this debate. Mrs Strik, Mr Backer and Mrs Wezel have a clear position on this, but that is a different position from that of the cabinet. The basis is laid in the government agreement of the Rutte I cabinet and the criteria are set out in the Maat houden 2014 report. In the government's view, this bill is fully complied with, and Mrs Wezel does not agree with it. The legal professions, unlike the auditors and other organisations, are all organised in the same way. They are professional bodies governed by public law with independent regulatory powers and they are homogeneous in composition. So that's different from the BIG-registered ones. The BIG registered companies do not have a public-law professional organisation and are very diverse in composition. So you can also very easily reason why that comparison doesn't go one-on-one. That's why it's the way it is. You can say two things about that. You can say: we have to talk about that again. So says Mr Backer c.s. also with the motion under letter H. But I think you should just look at these three who have their own organizations. These are self-employed organisations which are extremely responsible for their work. In the cabinet's view, it is obvious to say: it is logical that disciplinary and supervisory measures should be brought into line with the law of the law of discipline and that the costs of disciplinary action should be charged. Mr Backer asked for the proposal to be retained, as there might be a different framework. I can't go along with that. I understand his point of view. On the other hand, a clear agreement has been made in two governmental agreements. Two Cabinets supported the starting point of this law. What is stated in the Maat report is fulfilled. That is the government policy on the day this bill is put to the vote. I believe that we must continue to comply with this. That also means that I have the motion-Backer c.s. under letter H, for the simple reason that I cannot agree with the recitals and the operative part of the motion. Mrs Strik raised something that Mrs Wezel had already mentioned on her behalf, namely that disciplinary law also has a public interest. That debate has already been held quite extensively in the first term. There is a public interest, but there is also a great interest in the professions themselves. That interest justifies that the bill is what it is. Obviously, I'm enforcing the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to hold an inspiring debate with this Chamber. I am very pleased that this is the way to deal with the budget for security and justice, which will take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I have once again been put in the right groove to enter into the debates in the parliamentary arena on the edge of the celebration of our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u88	Thank you, Minister. This Room is always willing to get you into the right groove.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-eerstekamer-5.u89	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. We'll be voting on this next week. Given the nature and the text of the motion, it is reasonable that we should vote first on the motion and then on the legislative proposal.
