ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Vliet for his reply to the questions put by the Chamber. He is supported by two policy staff: Chayenne van de Water and Thomas van der Kuijk. Welcome to the House, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister to the Chamber. The first term of office took place on 28 April. Now the answers of the initiator and the Minister to the questions raised in the first term are discussed. We will then see whether the legislative proposal can be dealt with immediately. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I still miss colleagues Nijboer and Koolmees, but I hope they hear me now and run here. I am honoured to be standing here again; this time to defend my initiative proposal to colleagues in the House of Representatives. I think the co-legislator role of the Chamber is very important. In addition, I think the 17 million Dutch consumers are very important. Those are the two reasons why I'm standing here. I would like to thank the spokesmen of the political groups for their interest in the proposal and for the questions and comments that have been put. I will first give a brief general introduction to the meaning of my proposal. In the course of my story I will then come to more specific subjects and questions that were asked in the first term of the Chamber. As Members of Parliament, we are all citizens and consumers. I believe that the gap between voters and elected representatives would be narrowed if Members of Parliament and politicians were to be in the shoes of those citizens more often. The concerns and irritations of citizens would then be more easily understood by our politicians, including the concerns and irritations of consumers. These 17 million consumers must have the freedom to choose their own means of payment without fearing additional surcharges, the so-called surcharge. That is why the Consumers' Association, with some 500 000 members, has fully supported my initiative. This is also important and well known to the parties represented here, who together represent 17 million consumers. The European Commission issued the Payment Service Directive II, PSD2, a directive adopted by the European Parliament by an overwhelming majority in October 2015. In 2018, this Directive should be implemented in Dutch legislation in this area; that is the Civil Code. Although I do not always appreciate everything as well from the European Commission, I am honest in this, the PSD2 is a good set of measures. This protects consumers in all EU Member States from unnecessary surcharges. Choosing a means of payment becomes neutral. The consumer gets the full and free choice without being punished with additional surcharges. The transposition of a directive is not without obligation. This must have happened by 2018. However, the European Commission has called on the Member States to implement it rather than the mandatory introduction into national law, in order to protect the consumer from arbitrariness in the extra payment for the choice of a means of payment. Please note that EU Member States such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Sweden, Portugal, Luxembourg, Romania, Bulgaria, Austria, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Greece and Hungary have already introduced a ban on surcharging following the earlier PSD1 Directive and the announced PSD2. It is precisely in the interests of consumer protection that I have taken the trouble to try to get the Netherlands to move ahead with the later mandatory introduction of PSD II and the resulting ban on payment surcharges for consumers. After two notes of amendment to the original initiative, I can clearly and without reservation inform the Chamber that the proposal of law is fully in line with the provision of Article 62 (4) PSD2, which regulates the prohibition of surcharging. So there is no national Van Vlietkop on that proposal anymore. Nevertheless, it certainly makes sense to deal with the payment surcharges already. Why wait for a mandatory introduction if we can already protect consumers from arbitrary and unnecessary storage? Of course, I will come back to the costs in the payment chain and on types of means of payment. I assume that the Minister of Finance will have a comment on this initiative. I look forward to that with confidence. I will listen seriously to his opinion and I hope that colleagues will do the same. At the heart of my introductory speech is that my proposal is not about credit cards or about encouraging them. No, it is completely, in line with the PSD2, about standing up for and protecting the consumer. That's what it's about, not just about credit cards. I sent this initiative proposal to the Council of State. In essence, the Council of State endorses the proposal. I have taken the small number of comments and recommendations to heart. I have changed the explanatory statement and the proposal itself. In the note on the report, I have responded in great detail in writing to the questions put by the political groups. Then there was the plenary debate in which the first term of office took place. That has given me reason to submit two successive letters of amendment. I have listened carefully to the views of Members and taken into account the position of the government. The first letter of amendment states that the substance of the initiative proposal is fully in line with the PSD2. The second letter of amendment lays down that the text of the bill also does exactly that. I hope that this has met some of the concerns expressed by some groups. I will explain this later. Some groups asked about the need for a ban on surcharging, partly in view of the current ban on charging in a surcharge more than the actual costs of means of payment and its enforcement by the Authority for Consumer & Market, the ACM. After all, the ACM has recently carried out an enforcement action at a limited number of web stores, with the result that they have received a warning. Apart from the fact that this proves that more costs are already being charged than the actual costs, I am now showing the Court a concrete example of how necessary it is to introduce my proposal quickly. May I ask the clerk to distribute this A4 to the spokesmen? There is an example of this. It's old-fashioned. I hear the Minister say: there is still no projection screen. Otherwise, the example could now be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Van Vliet, it is not only being made available for inspection but also distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll wait until it's spread. Then I can explain why this is a summary of everything we are talking about today. I shall, of course, explain it later. It is a concrete example in which an average Dutch consumer wanted to buy something online last weekend. That example has been given to me, and I am very pleased with it. I am not happy with what is happening here, but with the fact that I can show the Chamber what is happening in the Netherlands. In the example it concerns the possible order of mascara, of a kind from which your eyelashes will grow. Someone wanted to order that mascara your eyelashes are gonna grow from from a web shop. So this is happening online. That mascara wasn't meant for myself, by the way, but I assume you'd already seen it. My wife thinks my eyelashes are long enough. At that first webshop, you can see links on the color page.......................................................................................................................................... Next, this online provider, under the heading "payment method," says that you can pay via iDEAL. So you're gonna make it over. There is a surcharge of €10 on top of that €39. You can also pay via PayPal, with a credit card. There is also a surcharge of €10 on top of that €39. You can also pay in another way, namely via PayLane, also with a surcharge of €10. You can also have it sent under rembours. Then you have to pay the person who delivers the package. A surcharge of €15 applies. Thus, both in the case of bank transfers and credit card payments, there is a surcharge of more than 20%, only for the means of payment. It goes without saying that this consumer was looking for another supplier. See example 2 of last weekend. This really is a concrete example; it is not a made-up case. The second provider offers exactly the same product, but this time for a price of €44.99. Then you think: oh, it's more expensive. But no matter what payment method you choose, this provider offers even more than the first provider. No charge will be charged for it. You can click on it, but the price remains €44.99. That's how it's gonna be. This example shows a number of things we are talking about today. The famous example of Mr Dijkgraaf, who unfortunately is not here today, of the high surcharge on airline tickets, is just the tip of the iceberg. Surcharging occurs with many more products and services. Both this concrete example and the outcome of the investigation by the Authority Consumer & Markt show that in the Netherlands more than the actual costs are surcharged in violation of the law. It should only be 0.3% and not more than 20%. This example also shows that competition at the price of a product or service, in which possible costs of payment instruments have already been included, is quite possible. This consumer has opted for the second provider, which is, on balance, €4.01 cheaper and does not apply surcharging. Finally, this shows that a ban on surcharging is not about credit cards but about neutrality between all means of payment to be chosen. It goes without saying that a ban, as advocated by me and in any case coming towards us through PSD2, will ultimately make enforcement much easier. After all, consumers and the supervisory authorities will soon be able to see whether the ban is being infringed. There's nothing secret about that anymore. The scope of my proposal is now fully based on PSD2.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u5	It's a good example. But doesn't the consumer just go to the one who doesn't surcharge? You'll have exactly what you want on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u6	I understand that question and of course I would have expected it, but nevertheless I choose this example. There's a provider here who's breaking the law. You're only allowed to charge 0.3%, so you're not allowed to charge 20%. It seems that this cannot be maintained by the Authority Consumer & Market. It also means that if this directive is introduced in the near future, which exactly fits my proposal, it will no longer be possible to do so and that competition between these two providers will be fairer, namely in such a way that the law can no longer be violated and any costs must be wrapped up in the cost of its product or service. This is transparent for every consumer. Then I would like to see what the price difference is between the first supplier and the second supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u7	In fact, the question is whether rules will be broken. If so, the ACM must maintain. Of course, it could also be the case that one has to do with another merchant service charge or other costs that he does want to pass on. So this is not yet proof that the supplier has broken the rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u8	Somewhere in the payment chain the rule is broken, because there you can only charge the 0.3% settlement fee. By definition, charging more than actual costs is wrong if it is more than 0.3% on transactions falling within the scope of my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u9	Scenario 1, which you are setting out in your example, is not allowed in the current situation. What will your proposal improve on this? It will continue to be so at the moment when they do not comply with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u10	Now we are not sticking to it, because apparently it is far too difficult to maintain that 0.3%. There's gonna be a ban on surfing. So at the end of the trading chain where the transaction takes place between the service provider and the consumer, it is much easier to check everything because it all ends up in that case. The consumer simply sees: this is the price of the product, which I have to pay because otherwise I don't get the product, but regardless of the means of payment I choose, this is the price. Whether delivery costs or costs come on top of something else is something that each provider has to decide for itself, but because a particular means of payment is chosen, no more than 0,3% should be added. So it's much easier to control. The consumer sees for himself whether or not he is being sewn into the suit. So that overview is going to come into being. In the example, the first and second suppliers will only compete on the price of a product, the margin they have on it and the way the product is offered. Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the legal scope of my own initiative proposal, now that it is fully based on the upcoming PSD2 directive. What is now covered by the ban on surcharges, which will be compulsory in any case? Payments whose interchange fees, known as interchange fees, are covered by the Regulation on interchange fees. These are payments with debit cards issued in the European Economic Area, debit payments, also contactless and mobile, and payments with credit cards issued in the European Economic Area as well as prepaid cards. What else does it cover? Payment services to which the so-called SEPA Regulation applies. These are transfers and direct debits in euros, as far as they take place within the same European Economic Area. What doesn't fall under it, now that I've completely aligned it with PSD2? All three-party transactions. These include American Express and Diners Club. Additional costs may be passed on later. Furthermore, payments with purely business cards covering only business transactions are excluded. So they are also left alone because that also does PSD2. It also excludes payments with maps of any origin from outside the European Economic Area. This could be important for tourism sectors, when Americans or Chinese pay with other credit cards or payment cards. In response to concerns from the Chamber about cross-pollination of the costs of means of payment among themselves, about the risks of debt problems in relation to credit cards and about the costs for entrepreneurs, I would like to say the following. The most expensive means of payment for the average entrepreneur is cash payments. It is expected that its costs will increase further in proportion to the decrease in cash payments. However, these costs are generally included in the cost of the product or service. The initiative proposal extends this line to all means of payment, the settlement fee of which is legally limited to 0.3% of the price. In the payment chain there should already be no more than €0.30 per €100. After all, we are talking about €0.30 per €100. In my opinion, this maximum amount can soon be included in the cost. In particular, I note that the proposal does not provide for credit cards to be free of charge. For this means of payment, as in the case of a debit card, the consumer must periodically pay a separate amount to his or her bank or credit card club. For credit cards, this amount is on average much higher than for debit cards, as additional services are offered when paying by credit card, such as insurance. However, the pre-chain settlement fee of 0.3% of the price, which now limits the cost of a means of payment to be calculated, should no longer be charged to consumers as a separate supplement. But this doesn't make a credit card a free one. You just have to keep paying your own bank periodically. Consequently, it does not follow from this that a ban on surcharges will subsidise one means of payment. We saw in the concrete example just now that a very heavy surcharge was demanded for all online means of payment. You're gonna lose that supplement. Given the legitimate concerns of political groups about debt, I note that if no more €0.30 can be charged for a purchase of €100, in my opinion there will be no consumer movement towards making more debts or using one specific means of payment. After all, the proposal concerns not only credit cards but all the means of payment I have described earlier. Credit cards are definitely not free. Perhaps they will be even more expensive, because the 0.3% will not be passed on. The Nibud has investigated that 50% of Dutch households may be red on the normal payment account. If these consumers make a payment via iDEAL, by overbooking or by debit card, they immediately use an account on which they are red. Then there is a very expensive credit. In the case of a credit card payment, the interest rate counter will only be ticking after six weeks. Each specific means of payment therefore has advantages and disadvantages. Consumers' behaviour is not entirely predictable, but it is too short to say that there are more credit cards or risks of higher debt when they are banned from surcharging.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Van Vliet said earlier that consumer protection is the main issue. I think that's what he's trying to do. He doesn't want anything to do with credit card stimulation. The aim is therefore not to encourage credit cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u12	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'll fight the reasoning of just now. The Dutch seem to be very sensitive to financial incentives. If you have to pay each time, even if it is only €0,30, €0,40 or €0,20, while you can pay for free, then you go to pins. If you take that threshold away, it will still be more attractive to use credit cards next to the debit card, which is already so cheap and works so well. People are red on their payment accounts sometimes, but they already have that debit card. However, I am afraid that the effect will be that many more credit cards will be used and that much higher debts will be incurred, in addition to the fact that many people are already red in their accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u14	I understand Mr Nijboer somewhere. If you assume that many more people will use credit cards, there is also the reasoning that many more people will purchase a credit card. That's gonna cost money at your bank. A credit card is much more expensive than a debit card. So that is the first threshold to be exceeded as a consumer. The second step is the question of what you're gonna do with that credit card. In the Netherlands it is very easy to withdraw a debit card from the wallet and pay with it. I wholeheartedly endorse that. I barely pay things myself with a credit card. I only do that abroad, in a restaurant or when I'm going to refuel my car and people don't accept a debit card. Unfortunately, this is still the case in some countries. The reason why people are going to use a credit card specifically because they won't be charged €0.30 anymore, I don't see. Moreover, and that is very important for the picture we have here together, I just showed you in an example: whether you pay with iDEAL or with a credit card, you get €10 at €39 extra for you. Mr Dijkgraaf mentioned €7.50 on each flight ticket of a few tens. We are all going to ban this, as the PSD2 is going to ban it. That's exactly what I want. So you don't get to choose anymore, regardless of the means of payment. So I don't see that this fact would lead to much more credit card usage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u15	We agree on that amount of €10. It can't be done now and it needs to be maintained. I will give an opinion on this in the second term. You make something free that is now not free in payments, which you sometimes use several times every day. Wouldn't that lead to much more use? Mr Van Vliet praises it so well that these credit cards are actually only used abroad, and quite occasionally by a select group, because you also have to pay for them. I think that's a great thing about Dutch payments. If you remove that threshold, I am really afraid that there will be massive payments with credit cards and that the debt problem, which is already large, will also increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u16	Once again, my proposal is essentially intended to protect the consumer. I therefore do not take this as a consequence of this proposal. Nor does the European Commission; it comes with the PSD2, which is exactly similar. If what Mr Nijboer is implying is true, in all these countries, such as the United Kingdom, Italy and France, you should now see a massive increase in the use of the credit card. That's a sound that hasn't reached me. In addition, it will soon be forbidden to charge for ATM payments and all other forms of payment. So we just draw one line for all means of payment. Then I say: that is freedom for the consumer to choose the means of payment he wants, without being punished for it specifically with a surcharge and not for the other. We may talk a little bit along, but in the end we want the same thing, namely consumer protection. I am absolutely convinced that this will hardly affect the debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u17	Apart from the problem of debt, I think Mr Van Vliet is very explicit about the need to look at the consumer in particular. I think that's what we all do here. One of the crucial points was that a credit card in general is simply more expensive in its use than any other means of payment. When you actually see that shift and there are many more credit card payments, this will eventually be settled in the price. Moreover, I do not think that the comparison with abroad is very logical, because there are very different ways of using credit cards. You may believe in the ideal picture that this is not passed on to the customer, but you have not yet convinced me that this will not be the case. Then you would increase the price for the consumer. I really wonder whether the consumer is necessarily waiting for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u18	This is a very important question from Mrs De Vries and that is why my answer is very important. It's the heart of the matter. We are talking here about interchange fees, also referred to as interchange fees with an expensive word, which are in the chain prior to the moment when the consumer is involved. That settlement fee shall be laid down by law at 0,3%. Suppose in a chain, where there is ultimately payment with a credit card, there is a much higher interchange fee. If the shopkeeper thinks "I have to pass it on, or else I'm gonna lose on this means of payment," then the problem is in the chain sooner. Then the 0.3% has not been maintained. The parties who make all these transactions before the consumer and calculate interchange fees to each other and who take a credit card from a credit card issuing credit card club should ensure that there is no more than 0.3% of the transaction volume before the goods are offered to the consumer. If they stick to each other, and that can be enforced, the consumer is ultimately not more expensive, because then you are talking about €0.30 out of an amount of €100.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u19	I think there's a difference between the interchange fee for a credit card and the one for a debit card. That percentage is different. If you get a shift to the more expensive means of payment, this will ultimately have consequences for the cost of total payments. There Mr Van Vliet seems to be putting his head in the sand. In the first period, we asked very strongly about the impact on choice. Aren't they limited? After all, if you have a more expensive means, you have to pass it on to the price. As a specialist, I would say: well, then I'm only going to offer that cheap means of payment. The result is that there are fewer options. How does Mr Van Vliet look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u20	I'm used to never sticking my head in the sand. I always walk into the arena with my eyes open. That's what I'm doing right now. The consequences outlined by Mrs De Vries will not arise. If 0.3 is the percentage that everyone has to comply with, then that is €0.30 on a transaction of €100. It is important to point out that Mrs De Vries' assumption that debit cards or debit cards would not be included is not correct, because they do include debit cards. They are simply covered by the Regulation settlement fees for pre-chain transactions. You are also dealing with that 0.3%, so I can very, very much reassure Mrs De Vries on that point. The choice of means of payment is, in my view, going back to this later in my speech. That is a very logical reasoning. If all means of payment become neutral with respect to each other in the use by the consumer, you will not get any more costs than with the other debt instruments, the diversity and the number of means of payment will get a boost. I will come back to that shortly. Where was I? I was just discussing the debt issue. There's no way it's gonna go that fast. I'm pretty sure of that. The free competitive market of supply and demand will soon be able to do its job without disruption due to payment surcharges. When the 0.3% settlement fee can no longer be passed on as a supplement, I do not think that many providers are likely to offer one or more specific means of payment. Otherwise, there is a good chance that the consumer will go to another supplier. In addition, new means of payment or FinTech solutions will be able to enter the payment market without any disruption. The carefully prepared PSD2 will not put the EU countries behind the rest of the world. This conclusion has already been reached by economic powers such as France, Italy and Great Britain. Once again, in those countries the ban on surfing has already entered into force. SMEs have also been asked. I finally saw a letter from Thuiswinkel.org, Horeca Nederland, Retailer Nederland and the ANWR. Perhaps we could have had a conversation earlier if people had turned to me with any grievances. I believe that any objections will have become less severe now that my proposal is fully in line with the PSD2. Indeed, from 2018 onwards, a ban on surcharges is mandatory. Therefore, delay is certainly not a delay and would be directly at the expense of the Dutch consumer. As a derivative of an investigation by the European Commission, we have already reached EUR 36 million. Everyone does feel that the real disadvantage for consumers in the Netherlands, where media reports from earlier this week say that the majority of online purchases are made by the whole of the European Union, is much higher. I'm really willing to bet a horse on that. For the European Commission, the amount of hundreds of millions for the whole of the Union was, in any case, an explicit reason to call on the Member States to start a ban on surcharging. Nor will my proposal, should it be adopted, enter into force immediately. There is always a transitional period to get used to the situation. In that aforementioned letter from those organisations, I also read that the ANWR would have agreed with the Authority Consumer & Market that "only" 2% surcharge would be applied from 1 February 2016. I find that very strange, if the legally permitted percentage is 0.3. So something doesn't add up. In any case, I am always open to the views of others, and I have included that letter in my deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u21	In the first period, I made it very clear that we consider it very important that there should be consultation on proposals, including with industry. That is something we always ask of the cabinet when it comes to legislative proposals. Do I understand that Mr Van Vliet has not had any consultations with the parties involved? I'd think that was a really weird one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u22	I have prepared this initiative proposal in all conscience, taking into account the arguments put forward as far as possible. Sometimes you have the limit that you can't visit everyone in the market yourself. The organizations that are above the letter have not approached me either. I didn't even get that letter directly. I do not want to throw mud here, which does not seem to be a good thing for a bill to land in the Chamber, but I do think there is a responsibility on both sides. Again, I'm always willing to talk to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think that letter was sent to the permanent finance committee. In that sense, she was accessible. This is a bit of: if Muhammad doesn't come to the mountain, the mountain will come to Muhammad. I think Mr Van Vliet would like to have a proposal through this Chamber. In the first period, it was explicitly asked why there was no consultation with industry. The VVD thinks that's important. In our view, it would be a good idea to have an integrated proposal. Then I am a little surprised that Mr Van Vliet did not take advantage of this opportunity to hold consultations during the intervening period. Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u24	It is conjecture or consultation, i.e. physically sitting around the table, would have produced more than what was in that letter in the lobby. I could, but I don't know. I haven't reached those sounds. Sometimes I don't have the physical ability to go into the market and look everyone up. My schedule's pretty full. Nevertheless, I believe that I have done the best I can for this legislative proposal and have weighed all the arguments. Listening to your first-term grievances, I have heavily modified the proposal in the sense that it is now fully in line with PSD2. That will come to us in 2018 anyway. The Commission says of this: for God's sake, do it now, because that is much better for consumers. Large countries, such as France, Italy and Great Britain, say that we have already done so, the Netherlands, please do so. Okay, I'm listening to all the grievances, but then you might also be a little blind to reality, namely that big countries around us have already arranged that. Is it really so detrimental to retailers or entrepreneurs working on webshops? If you have a free competitive market, which no longer depends on the means of payment you choose, you will only have more pure and transparent competition. Look at the example I just gave. There is a club that says: our product is a bit more expensive, but you have an all-in price, for which you can do it. If you don't, you're gonna go see someone else. That has already worked in that example. Soon we're going to regulate this legally, because it's also regulated in PSD2. Then no distinction can be made in terms of means of payment. I think it is a very liberal principle that consumers can choose how something is paid. That is what I am trying to do and not to put a party at a disadvantage, quite the contrary. I hope that, in the end, everyone will benefit from this, so that we can all boost domestic spending. At the end of the ride the state treasury and webshops benefit. Questions have been asked about the whole system of fees in the payment chain. My proposal concerns consumer surcharges in certain transactions. It would indeed be advisable to assess the whole system of fees. I shall now turn to the complete proposal that Mrs De Vries and Mr Merkies have also referred to. My medium-sized group did not now have the opportunity to put forward a complete proposal for a balanced payment system. But that does not mean that you can take out a part of it that is important for consumers, just as the other EU Member States have done, with which you follow the Commission's call, because it directly leads to a better position for consumers and more transparent competition. Let's look at the whole system of fairies together. I hope to be able to contribute to the further implementation of PSD2 in 2018. Of course, we're gonna think about that. Then I will be happy to give you my opinion on these points. By the way, the ban that is being discussed here sees surcharges for the use of means of payment. When this is packaged as service or administration costs but then linked to a specific means of payment which will be charged then, of course, this is simply covered by the prohibition. Costs that are not linked to a specific means of payment if these are real administrative costs may, of course, still be passed on. That's not up to me. If everyone in the chain adheres to the legal limit of 0.3% settlement fees, any loss of extra earning potential at the end, at the consumer's, is extremely limited. In the case of higher additional amounts, it is no longer a question of costs, but it is an extra earning model. In a free competitive market without distortions of means of payment, the impact on consumers in the form of price increases will therefore, I am sure, be very limited. Look also at the above-mentioned concrete example where the total price without surcharge was even 10% lower on an identical product. The elimination of wrong incentives leads to a situation in which everyone can pay in the way they want to. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u25	I'm asking a question about enforcement. One of the problems raised by Mr Van Vliet is that the current variant would not be properly maintained. Well, there are enforcement actions going on. I also had a question for the Minister, but he may come back to that later. The question is how to maintain it. After all, the principle remains the same: they have to look on every website to find out how the system works and how it works. How does Mr Van Vliet think this can be maintained and what is the difference with the current method?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u26	In essence, enforcement is much clearer and simpler. After all, you see whether a ban is being violated. You don't see that right now. After all, there are a lot of parties that calculate more than that 0.3% and which ultimately also pass on more to the consumer, which by definition is legally charged more than the actual costs for a particular means of payment. You can't see that right now. After all, the transactions of the Authority Consumer & Market are not all public. Fortunately, it has also been the VVD, former colleague De Love, who asked written questions about this to Minister Kamp, who is about the Authority Consumer & Market. He was also very afraid that this would not be maintained, that this would cause serious problems and that this would in practice be a dead tiger. You don't even have a dead tiger, but you even have a panda bear with dentures. This is simply not maintained. Isn't everyone laughing when, because questions have been asked to the Minister, the Authority of Consumer & Market is on its way, picks out a few examples and gives a warning? See this example. Just on simple mascara, 20% surcharge on a means of payment. At the end of the ride you get much more overview: there is a ban and the question is whether or not that is violated. In the end, you will be able to implement enforcement more quickly and more easily with the right supervisor. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u27	In my opinion, Mr Van Vliet agrees that this first variant should not be allowed in the current system either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u29	Then it's about enforcement. You state that fines have been issued to a number of parties. I understand from the ACM that the parties have also adapted their arrangements for this purpose. And that's ultimately the goal you want to achieve with that enforcement, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u30	Certainly, but if only a limited number of providers adapt to that goal, a very large part of the market is still in the mist and it does things that are no longer allowed. In any case, at the end of the journey, this is not clear, not transparent and not good for the consumer. If PSD2 does manage this and other large Member States say that it is really good what is coming from Brussels and that they are already doing so, rather than under the mandatory PSD2, I would find it a bit strange if we in the Netherlands were to say: hmm, that enforcement... well, that is all wrong. Let us give it up. Then you are an island in the European Union. Once again, I am concerned about consumer protection, without causing other distortions in the free market. I'm sure if we do this, it'll work. Now we have to charge extra charges each time for a specific means of payment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u31	I thank the initiator and give the floor to the Minister, who is an advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u32	If the Chamber appreciates that, of course. Mr. Chairman. I would like to consider the following. Since the Court's first term, the proposal has been amended by means of two amending notes. This brings the whole thing in line with PSD2. In fact, this is the implementation of part of PSD2. It has been put forward, because, as you know, implementation was foreseen for January 2018. That is the state of play. I shall now answer a number of questions raised by the Chamber in the first term. Mrs De Vries asked about the implementation of PSD2 and the coordination with market players. The bill for implementation will be in consultation this summer. That means that anyone can react to that. Our plan is that the bill will be submitted to the Lower House in early 2017 and that it will enter into force in January 2018. The legislative proposal also includes a decision to develop the legal standards. This decision is expected to take place in public consultation at the end of this year. In addition, I can report that there is already a lot of consultation with the sector on the implications of PSD2 both inside and outside the Social Dialogue. We are therefore aware of this and are already working on it. Mr Van Dijck asked whether the proposal for an initiative was compatible with PSD2. I have just said something about this by way of introduction. Especially with the second letter of amendment, the proposal is exactly in line with the provisions of PSD2. Mr Van Dijck also asked whether there was a national headline. I don't think there is. Mr Merkies, Mr Nijboer and Mrs De Vries asked about the enforcement by the ACM of existing legislation. The government has understood from the ACM that there are no indications that it would encounter problems in the enforcement of the ban referred to here. In 2015, several of you were referred to by the ACM as investigating compliance with the existing provisions. A number of companies have been called upon to charge more costs than the actual costs. On the website, the ACM informs that these companies have reduced their costs and brought them into line with the applicable scheme. That news item was brought out by the ACM in January. The ACM has several instruments at its disposal to maintain, including the fine instrument. In choosing the enforcement approach, the ACM has room for manoeuvre, but, as it is well aware, it always puts the consumer at the heart of it. Mr Koolmees has asked if I am prepared to include the limitation of the Merchant Service Charge in the social consultation on payment transactions. I understand his concern. I will not repeat his speech on this point, but I am prepared to include it in the social dialogue. Mrs De Vries has asked what kind of shift will take place in the use of payment means of payment. That was just the subject of the debate between her and the initiator. What changes will be made as a result of an application of the initiative proposal? Is there going to be a shift towards more expensive payment methods? Our estimate is that the initial bill could have potentially led to a shift from cheaper to more expensive credit cards. With the second note of amendment, there is no direct reason to believe that this will happen, as a surcharge can still be applied for the often more expensive credit cards, for example if they are based on the tripartite scheme. A shift from debit cards to credit cards remains possible. I don't think there's much chance of that. The amount of payments in the Netherlands with credit cards is very small. It is less than half a percent of all payments made by Dutch consumers and an even smaller percentage is done with a card that we are talking about here. So I'm shutting down the tripartite schedules. It's really very small percentages. Of course there may be a shift, but I would like to point out that a credit card will be charged for purchase. Besides, it's a credit card. So it goes on credit, as the name says. There are charges immediately if you're red on your credit card. A lot of people don't have a big credit card. It's a very expensive way of paying. I can't rule it out entirely, but the risk is judged by me to be more limited. Mr Ronnes and Mr Nijboer specifically asked whether all this would lead to more debts. I think the shift will be limited. There are charges linked to the credit card, in advance when purchased and when used. As mentioned above, the letter of amendment reduces the risk. I think I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u33	I have a new question for the Minister. Does he see any added value in the fact that this proposal brings forward part of PSD2?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u34	Let me turn it around: why not? It is a measure which further protects the consumer and which, in the power of its simplicity, is more understandable and applicable and therefore more manageable. Normally, I would take the measure with me throughout the implementation. That would take longer, but thanks to Mr Van Vliet's initiative, the Chamber can adopt and implement this earlier. I see no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u35	Do you think that, in the process followed by the initiator, sufficient account has been taken of the influence of civil society organisations or the consultation of civil society organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u36	I don't think it's up to me to judge that. I can't judge it either, because I don't know what contacts there have been and how it happened. You must be able to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u37	I have a question along the lines of this. The Minister indicated that there is already a lot of consultation in the Social Consultation Payment Traffic on the implementation of PSD2. Does he see problems in bringing forward the implementation of this law by a year? I'm going out for the convenience of 1 January 2017. Will that lead to problems in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u38	I honestly don't think so. I think it is a relatively clear measure that can be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then I thank the Minister and look at the Chamber to see if we can move directly to the second term. I see a nod in agreement. I call Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer both by the initiator and the minister, being his advisor. In itself, we welcome the fact that a large part of the regulatory headlines as originally proposed are now out of the proposal. We really had serious objections to that. There is one point that has already been raised in the case of interruption: this proposal is a little problematic for us, namely the fact that no consultation has taken place with industry. We believe it is important that legislation is discussed with industry and that input can also be provided. Contrary to the Minister, I do see some points of the PSD2 directive coming out without looking at other issues. We also just heard about the merchant service charge. Those are things I think you should consider in a total package. I think that is the problem, and we continue to find the problem with this proposal. We will think again about this, but these problems are very serious for us when it comes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Vliet and our adviser, the Minister, for their reply. Following the first deadline we received two notes of amendment without a so-called Van Vlietkop. I think it's positive what happened. Mr Van Vliet stressed that he stood up for consumers. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agrees. The example of Nanolash, which Mr Van Vliet used to illustrate today, was beautiful. I welcome the Minister's commitment to discuss the merchant service charge in the Social Dialogue so that there is no other way to increase costs. I am therefore very pleased with this response. That is why the D66 Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. I understand that the present proposal is about bringing forward a very small piece, namely Article 62 (4) of Directive PSD2. I wonder if you really just need to bring up that tiny little bit. Isn't it more convenient to discuss it in its entirety? I say this mainly because the examples mentioned by Van Vliet are already forbidden. Well, then that's not really necessary. Part of the credit cards are subject to a Member State option. We can then discuss this within the framework of the whole directive. I was also disappointed that there was no consultation with the retail trade. That was requested in the written round and I asked for it during my first term. So we have asked repeatedly. I do, however, attach great importance to the position of traders in the retail sector, because they do have to deal with the extra costs because of these credit cards and then cannot pass them on. We are, of course, concerned about that. Those entrepreneurs are going to pass that on in a different way, namely throughout the product, and then they end up with debit card payments. It'll make them more expensive. That's what we're worried about. In that context, I have asked Mr Delors whether there should be an investigation into the relationship between the cost of debit cards and credit cards and the relationship between the costs incurred and the effect that this could have. I do believe that this will have an effect and that this will certainly lead to more credit card payments. Because of the concern that the debit cards may become more expensive, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands the use of debit cards is much larger than the use of credit cards;]] [[Whereas credit payments lead to large debts to consumers faster than debit payments;]] [[Whereas the imposition of a ban on charging a surcharge for the use of means of payment in the total price may lead to a situation in which debit card payers indirectly pay for the cost of using a credit card, as they will also have to pay the higher payment price for their product;]] [[Considering that debit card payers should not bear the cost of credit card payers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that debit card payments do not become more expensive as a result of a ban on charging a surcharge for the use of means of payment to the consumer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34291-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I congratulate the initiator and his staff on the work they have done. The proposal has now been reduced to what the PSD2 Directive aims at. However, we still have some doubts about what exactly is covered and what exactly is not. Perhaps the initiator can come back to that in the second term. Otherwise, he may be able to reflect this in writing again before the vote on the proposal takes place. The second point we are opposed to is the process that has led to this proposal and the involvement of industry in it. That is the point that we will make when deciding whether we are voting for or against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author not only for his passion but also for his involvement in the defence of his proposal. I have three more points. The first point concerns something that is already forbidden, namely the large surcharges on mascara. Suddenly you're talking about mascara; you don't expect that when you wake up. This point is justified. The law is broken, but there is no enforcement. The Minister replied just now to questions from the Chamber in the first term, including from the PvdA, that the ACM does not fully recognise it, that fines have not yet been imposed, at least that seems to me to be a bit of a hear and that someone is sometimes being addressed. I think that's a little too weak. I will conclude with a motion to do something about it and to actually enforce the law, because then there are no such practices. The second point concerns something that we have discussed, but on which we have not fully agreed, namely the effect on credit card use and debt in the Netherlands. Mr Van Vliet stated in his last replies that this would also apply to other European countries, such as England, because the directive is coming. My point is precisely that in the Netherlands, unlike almost all other European countries, debit card payments, debit payments, are the usual payments. If you implement this bill in Europe, it doesn't matter to those other countries, because everyone already uses credit cards. That is not the case in the Netherlands. The PvdA is really afraid that when you remove the thresholds for this, you will shift the ratio between debit and credit card payments exactly as in all those other countries. That is a dangerous development for people's debts. The third point concerns a more political weighting. With what remains before us, a directive that would already be implemented is put forward and presented to the Chamber. One point has been removed from that directive and will therefore enter into force a few months or perhaps a year earlier. In itself, it does not have to be so much against it, but I would not want to make it a custom as a Chamber. It becomes a bit of a messy mess of legal treatment if you always bring up one article from an implementation law and treat it as an initiative law. That is not Mr Van Vliet's first proposal, so I do not want to push it too hard, but this is the case. Finally, I will table my motion, which concerns the enforcement of the current legislation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that current legislation does not allow charges to exceed actual costs;]] [[noting that there are examples of unacceptable high surcharges;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the Authority for Consumer & Market in order to ensure that this authority controls more and that a sanction also follows in the event of a breach of this legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34291-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u45	In short, I don't want supervisors talking and saying, guys, don't do that anymore. No, they have to be punishing, too. This will also help to make such examples of mascara and other examples of imagination a thing of the past in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u46	I understand that the author, Mr Van Vliet, can reply immediately. I think there have also been a number of questions put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their involvement in the debate and their questions and comments in their second term. I can now respond to that, because a number of points have been raised before. Some of the spokesmen in the Chamber share some of the same points. The example of this is consultation with the retail trade. In this case, it is mainly the webshops and the people who are active online in selling products and services. The honest answer is that we did not physically sit at the table; I did not hide it in fog. I also gave the reason: I did not have that possibility. However, I would like to stress that I have read the letter that I finally received on my table very well. If you weigh the arguments of all parties, that can have an effect. In my case, that was one of the reasons why two notes of amendment were made. If this leads to a situation in which the initiative proposal only has an scope that is also included in PSD2, these web shop owners and organisations must also prepare themselves for it, because that PSD2 is coming towards us in this form. I cannot imagine that you do not want us to offer consumers more protection a year earlier. I didn't read that letter like that. In response to this, I would like to say the following. I took good note of the letter. That's why we now have a situation that doesn't go beyond PSD2. In doing so, I also believe that retailers and online webshops will be able to prepare themselves for the new situation that is yet to come. I'm sorry we didn't physically sit at each other's tables. In fact, it seems to me to fit in with a careful consideration of the arguments in order to do so. So I certainly don't want to run away from that. I'm also honest with you that that didn't happen. That is possible; everywhere where work is done, chips fall. This is a chip, I'll tell you what. I did read the letter and I took those arguments with me. In that sense, I am sorry that I have not been able to physically sit at the table with these parties before. If I had seen that opportunity before, I might have thought better about this and I would have done this. So much for the letter and the webshop retailers. Several colleagues have said that there is still a question: one point is now being removed from a large set of new regulations. That's right; I'm just being honest about that, too. It is true that the point I am taking out is very specific about consumer protection. The European Commission has called on the Member States to settle this particular issue earlier: this is coming up with a whole package of other measures on payments, but take this out. The European Commission itself has explicitly called on the Member States to do so. Ultimately, many large Member States and also smaller Member States followed up on PSD1 and the announcement of the new PSD2. I don't really do anything but that. You could also take this as a way of saying that I have an extreme pro-EU mood today. I'm not used to that. I'm willing to be pragmatic. If we come from Brussels with something good, we must not fail to do so. Otherwise, we're gonna put our own consumer in the booth. I understand the comments on one point. I admit that we must look at the whole system of fairies and merchant fees and so on to see how it all fits together. This is also coming towards us, because the PSD needs to be implemented. We will then have discussions again, and I will take part as a Member of Parliament and bring forward all the knowledge I have acquired. This should not prevent us from helping the Dutch consumer in the light of the European Commission's call. There's no reason to wait for that. I'm glad the Minister said the same. I have responded seriously to the contributions of the various groups, but I am confident that it is not a new practice to ride out every time. It now came true, also because of the European Commission's call. Mr Merkies made a valid comment about my example of the mascara of a webshop that is doing something that is already forbidden. If you look at this example, the conclusion is, of course, that it is going to be a huge overrun of actual costs. When the PSD2 comes towards us and it is arranged that this really cannot be done by maintaining it at the end of the journey, the consumer has a better protected position than is currently the case. Now he is at the mercy of some suppliers or service providers who do nothing. Of course, that doesn't apply to all webshops, I don't want to make them look bad, but this is a tough example. The consumer will be better protected if we take care of it now. So let us not wait. If the Chamber is concerned about the enforcement and the Authority Consumer & Market should be able to see at the end of the journey that the consumer is also truly protected if there is surcharge, he should be able to rely on protection or to raise a point of order, I suggest to the Chamber that I am prepared to amend the proposal for the votes so that it is explicitly stated that the ACM will monitor these transactions. The ACM will therefore be the supervisor in the new situation. I see an opportunity to arrange that. If I can take away the concerns of the Chamber about enforcement, or if it is going to be much more than it is now, then we can do that with each other. The starting point becomes much clearer, because at the end of the ride you can immediately see whether or not there is surcharge. This may no longer be the case in certain transactions. If this is the case, there must be a supervisor where the consumer can deal directly with his complaint. I would suggest to the Chamber that I am prepared to add this to the bill in consultation with the government. In the first instance, I described the legal scope of the current proposal. In other words: how is what Van Vliet wants to bring forward here, soon arranged in PSD2? This is quite technical and therefore I have read all the terms very quietly. I think it would be wise for me to send a letter to the Chamber before the vote in which I write down what is now covered. I will be honest in this as well. I try to do this in normal language, but with reference to all the regulations and directives that are at issue. I'll send the Chamber that letter soon. Let's say in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u48	The votes will be taken next Tuesday. So the Chamber should have that letter on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u50	If you can do that, the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yes. I admit that I will send this letter well before the votes to my colleagues in the Chamber. I can do that. I have a very nice state of mind about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u52	Good. Then we assume that the letter will be sent to the Chamber by Monday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u53	Monday at the latest. Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'd rather you didn't. I believe I have answered the questions. I see two motions. It is, of course, quite extraordinary that you, as a Member of Parliament, have to give an opinion on motions. That's okay, isn't it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u54	You may, but the motions are addressed to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u55	Yes, but I'd like to give an opinion on that. Well, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u56	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u57	I advise the Minister, that's how I belong here. Very wise. I am very sympathetic to Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 11, but by asking the government to ensure that debit card payments do not become more expensive, you might disrupt the market. We have just said that we are going to avoid market distortions by supplementing means of payment. So you're asking the government to make sure that one means of payment gets a special position through a back door. That seems difficult to me to carry out. However, I am sympathetic to this motion. I shall leave that judgment to the Minister. On the Nijboer motion in part No. 12. I can be more specific. If it were up to me to give an opinion on this, I would say, certainly Chamber of Appeal. I believe that everything must be done to enforce rules and that a violation must be sanctioned. In that sense, therefore, I am very much in favour of Mr Nijboer's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u58	I would like to thank Mr Van Vliet for answering the second-term questions. I give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions put to him and to give an opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr. Chairman. I think I can go straight to the motions. The motion in part No. Well, 11 is complicated, isn't it? It calls on the government to ensure that debit card payments do not become more expensive as a result of a ban on asking for a surcharge for the use of means of payment by consumers. It is precisely here that we arrange for payments for debit cards and credit cards, with the exception of a few categories, to be flattened. Is this motion now asking for credit card payments to be accompanied by a surcharge? We're just making sure this isn't meant to happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u60	Perhaps Mr Merkies would like to give a small explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u61	At the heart of this initiative proposal is that we align it. By the way, that's also in the PSD2. However, Mr Merkies has tabled a motion which states that the government must ensure that it is not aligned. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'll give you an encore. That was a slip of the tongue, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make it quite clear: as a result of the ban. That's the point. That's exactly what I'm worried about. This applies not only to me; more people are concerned about it. Eventually, the costs will have to be passed on to someone. If high costs are charged to a shop or supplier, for example in the form of merchant service charges, then something must be done with those costs. What you're going to do is make the product more expensive for everyone. Eventually the user of a debit card pays more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u63	I love it all. We're here to arrange for you to stop charging these charges; we're gonna get it straight. Next, Mr Merkies said that some of the costs associated with credit card use could end up with the debit card and then asked the Minister if he would like to counter that. I think it's a long shot. I don't see how I should fight that either. It is a problem that may not arise at all. In current practice, banks incur losses on debit card payments. A profit is made on credit cards. That is the actual situation. I'm not going to accept this assignment. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u64	I also hope that the Minister will answer my question about an investigation into costs. I do wonder whether the Minister sees the whole mechanism of what I am describing. He says he finds it difficult to explain how that can be countered. I can imagine, but does he see the mechanism that ultimately has to be passed on these costs? Then the product will be made more expensive and the account of the credit card payers will end up with the debit card payers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u65	No, I don't see that mechanism. It could happen. I'm trying to understand what's in the motion, which is already a lot of work, but the argument that this is going to happen and that the government has to make sure that it doesn't happen falls under the category of assignments I'd rather not get. I don't follow the reasoning. I don't think it's gonna work either. So I do not want to be given the task of solving a problem that has not yet arisen and which I do not expect to arise. What actually says here is: I want there to be a difference between credit card and debit card. That is the guarantee that Mr Merkies really wants. Then he must vote against this proposal and against the implementation of PSD2, because it aligns them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Merkies, we really have to move on, because at a quarter to three there is another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u67	I know, because I'm in that debate, too. I don't want there to be a difference. The point is that the suppliers themselves are burdened with higher costs by, for example, the bank and that they ultimately have to get rid of them somewhere. And now they can't lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to Mr Nijboer's motion asking the government to consult with the ACM in order to ensure that the ACM controls more and that sanctions are applied in the event of infringements. That seems to me to support policy. I'm prepared to discuss further with the ACM. I have also heard Mr Van Vliet say that he considers it serviceable to explain in the initiative law how supervision is regulated. This can have a legal added value. Therefore, that would also give rise to consultation with the ACM on this issue. I cannot ask the ACM to always impose a penalty in the event of a violation, because that is not the way it is arranged. That possibility is in the hands of the ACM. So on this motion, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-7.u69	I thank the Minister and the initiator. There will be a supplementary letter from the initiator by Monday at the latest. The vote will take place next Tuesday.
