ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u1	I see that almost all Members are present and I am the first to give the floor to Mr van Nispen of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had an intensive debate on subsidised legal aid. This has led my group to three motions, the first of which has been co-signed by a number of colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to set a ceiling in the system of funded legal aid of in principle 900 points on the basis of a mixed practice;]] [[noting that a substantial proportion of lawyers active in the scheme cannot acquire a mixed practice, at least not without compromising quality;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from adopting a mixed practice;]] [[asks the Government not to work out the 900 points limit and not to send it to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission is required to make a proposal on how points within the system can be allocated without increasing expenditure under Article 2 (2) (c) of the institutional system;]] [[considers that this would not allow for an examination of the actual points of action per case if it could lead to an increase in expenditure;]] [[calls on the government not to give the restriction in advance only to come up with a proposal which does not lead to an increase in expenditure, but to allow the committee to identify different scenarios so that choices can be made after the rethinking of the points system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for many middle incomes, a commercial lawyer is too expensive but there is no right to funded legal aid;]] [[noting that it should also be possible for middle income to exercise their right to legal aid and access to justice;]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios to increase the income limits for subsidised legal aid to a maximum of 20% so that the Court can involve them in further decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Recourt, Swinkels, Segers, Van Tongeren, Thieme, Kuzu, Klein and Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-123]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-124]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u3	For the record, the last motion does not call for decisions, but only for scenarios to be worked out, so that we can look closely and carefully at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have indeed had an intensive general discussion on subsidised legal aid. My group was open in the debate on the 900 points limit. We've had a lot of reactions from third parties, from law firms of different sizes and composition. My group has opened wide-ranging consultations. The Minister had a chance to convince my group. I said in general consultation that this did not work. The Minister came up with a number of examples of which he himself said they were not representative. That brings me to the judgment on the motion in item No. 123 of the SP colleague. I will present it to my group with a positive opinion, so that the 900 points limit, which the Minister should have sent to the Chamber, does not come at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u5	Mr. Chairman. I voted in favour of Mr Van Nispen's motion. The measure is a direct intervention in the way lawyers freely organise their entrepreneurship themselves. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that lawyers are independent entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas independent entrepreneurs themselves are responsible for the acquisition of their business;]] [[Whereas independent entrepreneurs themselves are responsible for the operating results of their undertakings;]] [[Whereas self-employment means that all business risks are borne by the self-employed person;]] [[Whereas it is not a public task to determine how independent entrepreneurs recruit their customers and how much turnover an independent entrepreneur is allowed to operate, or how this turnover is generated;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the planned measures restricting self-employment within the legal profession and not to interfere further in the management of these self-employed entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u6	Mr. Chairman. It was a fairly broad general consultation, following all the opinions given on the subsidised legal aid. We've been talking pretty intensely about the time a lawyer can spend on additions. We have talked about the position of middle incomes and the suspension of the Legal Loket. We have expressed our concerns about our own contribution, because the income limit may soon be included in our own home. We have raised a number of points on the cases that will be dealt with as quickly as possible, with legal aid being put under pressure. What has become of me in general consultation is that everything is not yet very definitive. That is why my signature is not yet under the SP's motion on the 900 point limit: we have not yet heard the final decision of the cabinet. However, we would like to hear that. We also want to know what the profession really thinks of what comes out of it. I would like to hear from the Minister today about this. I'm surprised the Minister doesn't want to do anything for middle income. I have often asked him to do something for these people, but the Minister says: no, they have to arrange this through the legal profession or legal aid insurance. I don't want to touch that. I am concerned that there is a place for initial advice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas those seeking redress may incur high costs for the resolution of a legal dispute;]] [[whereas, therefore, citizens should be able to obtain initial legal advice from the Legal Loket before taking a lawyer;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that not only low-income citizens but also middle-income citizens are able to obtain legal advice from the Legal Loket,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u7	We had it sorted out for a while: this doesn't have to cost the top prize at all. It's about people, if they don't remember, having a place, supported by the government, where they can be helped a little bit in our complex world. We want to have this support for the middle incomes, which are already having such a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u8	It sounds nice, but what does it cost? Mrs Van Toorenburg points out in a subtle way that it does not have to cost the top prize at all. Can she give us an estimate of what it would cost and where we would have to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u9	No. The Minister has already indicated that the Legal Loket is still being looked at. At first, there was a big cut in this; the work could be carried out within it. Now there's not going to be that cut, so there's probably a little more room. We have been in contact over the phone and, on the basis of this, we have been given the impression that it will not be so many people. Let the Minister figure it out. We can still hold the motion if necessary. We would very much like the cabinet to be meaningful to the middle income as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u10	I understand, but you're not delivering. You say you want something organized, but you don't deliver the bag of money. We know you can't realize something without money in this world. That's why I'm so curious about the way you think you're gonna solve this. Anyway, we'll see what the Minister will say on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u11	Exactly. That's what it was all about. In the debate, we discussed in some detail the financing of the Legal Loket. The minister said there's enough money because the cut he wanted earlier is off. It's gonna make room. I'm thinking, let's use that space efficiently, especially for middle income. This cabinet can finally do something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u12	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the system of subsidised legal aid. Let us be clear: that is a unique system. I said it last time and say it again: this system gives everyone in this country the opportunity to get their rights. That is precisely why we need to ensure that we keep the system sustainable and make it future-proof and high-quality. That is why, from this point of view, I believe that the recommendations of the Wolfsen Committee, which have been largely taken over by the cabinet, are valuable. I think it is justifiable for you to have the courage to discuss this with each other and for you to dare to say that I have done so, and I am doing so again that you should not be able to request unlimited additions. The question then arises as to whether the quality will not be under pressure. Nor should you hold on too rigidly to applying a ceiling; that is what I said to the Minister. So I want the Minister to consult with the Lawyers' Order. I heard Mrs Van Toorenburg say the same. Eventually, the order represents all those lawyers who, of course in my direction, have cracked very critical notes and sent critical e-mails. I am also affected by this, but in the end I want the right-looker, for whom we have this system, to be best served, to keep the best quality and to protect this unique system. That is what I am addressing the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u13	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we must have a system in which anyone who cannot afford it can put his question to the courts. He must then be helped by experts and specialists. The Wolfsen Commission has looked into this. How can we do that? How can we keep it sustainable? How can we make it affordable? The question also arises how we keep quality high. The committee has done a good job. The most important thing about the PvdA is the reinforcement of the first line. Are there any alternatives to procedures? I think that is extremely important. That is the real heart of the matter. Fortunately, I have heard a broad support for this. Most of the attention has been drawn by the 900 point limit, so the 900 declarable hours. My group does not entirely agree with the way in which the Wolfsen Committee has written this down. This was taken over by the cabinet. The Wolfsen Committee says that you should exceptionally be able to increase this. It is clear that almost Chamberwide lives the thought that this is too rigid a system. In addition, you get specialist lawyers who have no alternative to tap into paying clients, think of communal criminal law, foreign law and social security law... There are vulnerable people right there. We need to keep that up. Those people need to have a good lawyer. You only keep good lawyers when specialized lawyers can earn a reasonable income. The Court then disagrees on the question of how to proceed. A number of parties say they don't want a border at all, so we fall back on the 2,000-hour limit that is there now. My group feels differently about this. I ask the government to consult with the Bar Association and the Legal Assistance Council to consider the possibility of 1,200 declarable hours. I think that's very reasonable. You will then come back to the calculation as referred to by the Wolfsen Commission: officials on scale 12, possibly rising to 15. However, it remains possible to have only specialised offices for the jurisdictions where it is simply unrealistic to make a commercial profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u14	For my part, Mr Recourt has taken part in a motion by Mr Van Nispen which states that you should not want that 900-point limit. Instead, Mr Recourt introduces another, perhaps just as arbitrary, line of 1,200. Do I see that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u15	Yes, you can see that. I supported the motion by the SP colleague because I think it is important to show as widely as possible from the Chamber that the limit of 900 is not good. As I said, we differ on the question of how to proceed.'. I agree with you that every border is arbitrary. Whether you choose 1,200, 1,250 or 1,150, you have to draw the line somewhere. This applies to all legislation in all areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u16	That was the end of Mr Recourt's speech. I'm just gonna check on the Minister to see if he can answer directly. That's the case. I call the Minister of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u17	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions. We have indeed had a good general discussion with each other, in which we have had a very broad exchange of views on the system of subsidised legal aid we have in the Netherlands. Although it is very difficult to compare our system with that of other countries in Europe, it is my firm belief that our system is working well and that the tightening-up we are going to do on the basis of the reports by both the Wolfsen Committee and the Barkhuysen Committee are sensible and tending in the right direction. I just happened to have my colleague from England on the phone yesterday about their system. You will hear different sounds than in the Netherlands. I am also very pleased that I have received broad support in the Chamber for a large number of these proposals. Of course, we choose access to justice as the basis for our system of subsidised legal aid. It is very important that we remain in dialogue with the Dutch Bar Association and, as a follow-up to that, with the Council for Justice and all alternative providers of legal advice. I refer to the mediators who can assist people on the basis of legal aid. This discussion is also necessary when drawing up the opinions of the Wolfsen Commission. I have also become aware that in the Chamber there are a number of points where there is no agreement with what the Wolfsen Committee has proposed. This applies to the 900 points standard, which has also been discussed very carefully in this short debate. I'll start with the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 123. It states that this standard should not be further developed and that it should not be sent to the House of Representatives. Given the number of names under that motion, the question is whether there is sufficient support for the 900 points standard. That was the question, by the way, given the discussions of the Bar Association. I said in general consultation that I would discuss this, particularly on the points raised by a number of Members. How can you specialize enough when you are in a niche where only legal aid can actually be provided? Is it realistic if you are expected to supplement your income in the free market? I would have taken all those questions with me. Since I attach great importance to the House's support for the proposals that we are going to make, I leave the judgment on this motion to your Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 124 of the Van Nispen and Swinkels members. We have also discussed this in general consultation. We have a system of points and we have a budget. That budget was agreed when the budget was discussed in 2016. The 2017 budget will be agreed in the 2017 budget review. This motion seeks to make it possible to take steps ahead of the budget in order to make any additional funds available for legal aid. Since this can only be done at the expense of something else, this motion is a little premature in this debate. I would like to suggest to Mr Van Nispen that we hold this motion together with Mrs Swinkels until the budget debate. I think it can be easier there, because then we can also have the corresponding debate. If you want this, that's fine, but where are these resources supposed to come from? Does that money have to come from the police, from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from the judiciary, or does it have to come from somewhere else? After all, it is unrealistic to instruct a committee to identify scenarios, if you know in advance that you cannot finance them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u18	It's actually the other way around. The Minister sets up a committee to see how many hours a lawyer works per case. It answers the question of whether the number of points we are talking about is real. If you want that committee to do its job properly, you should not say in advance: look, but you have to get there and get there, because we only have a limited budget. We'll make that choice afterwards. We're not gonna make money available to the budget first, and then we're gonna figure out how many hours a lawyer can spend per case. No, first that investigation, without any limitation in advance, and then we can see what choices we make within the perhaps limited budget that the Minister makes available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u19	Then I come back to something I said in the debate itself. The Moon Commission, the predecessor of the Wolfsen Commission, had exactly the same mission 20 years ago, for the same reason, namely that it is unrealistic to order something to be worked out, even though you already know that you cannot set a budget against it. I understand that Mr Van Nispen is not holding his motion until the budget debate. Then I must discourage that motion, as it cannot be carried out. In his motion in part No. 125 asks Mr Van Nispen to broaden the income limits for subsidised legal aid. I note that this motion is not covered. Of course, that costs money, and probably even a lot of money in this particular case. That is why it would be wise for Mr Van Nispen to hold that motion until the budget debate. If he doesn't want to, I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u20	All I'm asking for is to work out scenarios to see if the middle incomes can be met, which the CDA also called attention to. We know that the scope of the Legal Aid Act has fallen from 53% of the population to 39% in recent years. That's a hell of a lot. I'm very curious what caused that. I think I have an idea. This motion doesn't cost money. I only ask the Minister to develop scenarios so that we can make choices later; perhaps already in the budget, but perhaps also in the cabinet formation, who knows. I'm only concerned with developing scenarios. Right now, I'm not asking anymore. I'll do it again after.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u21	That also means that this is more a budget issue than a debate like this, because it does have financial consequences. In addition, in general consultation, I have indicated quite clearly all the alternatives to the middle incomes. They're more than sufficient. I will also say something about this in reply to Mrs Van Toorenburg. If you worked out this motion, that would also mean that the legal profession, the same liberal professions that Mr Klein is talking about in his motion, would face competition from the subsidised legal aid. As I have also discussed in general consultation, I must, all of this overlooking, dissuade the motion. I come to Mr Klein's motion. As far as the free market is concerned, I fully agree with the motion, but I believe that the motion is flawed as regards the legal profession in the form of subsidised legal aid. It does fit the government to impose conditions on the use of public money. This is also done through the Legal Assistance Council. I do not know exactly how the motion is intended, but if Mr Klein means that we should not take any measure which reflects the quality or any part of the system of subsidised legal aid, I cannot, of course, support this motion. Then I'm gonna have to dissuade it. Perhaps Mr Klein just meant to stress that the free market must also be a free market. Then as a former attorney, I won't be against it very soon, although I don't see where the problem is. We do not impose restrictions on the free market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u22	It is also a question of the grant of legal aid by independent entrepreneurs, by lawyers who have an independent practice. They are not employed by the State. They can keep their business running because, for example, they have so many additions. That's their choice. Those are the existing conditions. For the quality of the legal profession itself we have separate rules, for example the rules of the Dutch order of lawyers. They say they have to work in an orderly manner. It is not for the government to decide that someone who works 60 hours is working a little too much, that this could be at the expense of quality and that the lawyer should only work 40 hours. That's not the point. So it is just a question of what criteria you maintain for the subsidised legal aid. You can report that, but that's only about the compensation system. It is quite entrepreneurship to respond to that. You don't have to do anything about that as a government. All lawyers are therefore equally free entrepreneurs, unless they are employed by the government. But that's another branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u23	It is therefore clear that this motion is intended to abolish the work of the Legal Assistance Council. This motion is apparently intended to abolish all the quality requirements and conditions imposed on lawyers wishing to benefit from public-funded legal aid. I cannot, of course, support this motion in any way, because we have set up this system precisely because it is important that public money is spent properly and that it is accounted for. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u24	Very briefly, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u25	There is absolutely no intention of abolishing the quality requirements. It's normal for you to have grant terms when you offer a grant. Those requirements of the Legal Assistance Board remain in place, but it is important that you do not interfere with the actual way in which the lawyer operates, in this case the lawyer who uses additions. You shouldn't limit that space any further with the quality requirements. You need to stay away from entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u26	As I said, Mr Klein is therefore opposed to the system we have developed in recent years in good consultation with each other. The Legal Assistance Council plays an important role in this. It ensures careful use of public money. I have no choice but to discourage the motion. I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's last motion. It calls on the cabinet to have legal advice given to middle-income people by the Legal Loket. Mr Van Oosten was right to point out that this motion has not been covered. That makes it complicated to find something about it. However, I would like to repeat what I said about middle incomes. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that this is a simple advice. It is precisely then that many alternatives are available. I mention the Association Eigen Huis when it comes to housing, the trade union when it comes to labour law services and the Consumers' Association, if people are members of it, or their legal aid insurer. That's where people can go for these little conversations. In addition, there is just the Dutch lawyer in the free market, where people can really go for very small simple questions. Then there's no need for the Legal Loket at all. That may be different when it comes to lengthy procedures. However, we have chosen to lay the line where it lies. I would also like to say to Mrs Van Toorenburg that wherever you lay the border, there will always be a group that says: 'Hey, I'm sorry that that border is with us'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u27	I'd like to invite the Minister to look at it differently. Indeed, there are a lot of places where people can go. People go there all the time. However, let us now also give people who do not walk those roads a chance to ask them a question at the Legal Loket about how they can best stick to the fork. Why would the Minister not want to have a little generous government provision for these middle incomes that can simply provide some explanation? On the site everything is written down very invitingly. You can get some advice and you can really go a long way with it. All good, but then suddenly it says: if you make too much money, the door is closed. I'm so sorry about that now. Can the Minister not look at it anyway? Maybe he should indicate what it would cost if people there could be helped with a little bit on the way with an initial advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u28	I really do not think that Mrs Van Toorenburg and I agree on this point. These are people with incomes with whom we believe they are able to pay for it themselves. That is, of course, the starting point. I would also point to the representatives of the Dutch Bar Association sitting in the public gallery. That's what lawyers are for. They're there to give advice. They often choose to keep the price of that first opinion very reasonable. I even sometimes see signs of lawyers saying that the first advice is free. That's a great solution. That is the beauty of the free market. I agree with Mr Klein on this point. I think it is very good to leave matters above the border to the legal profession and all the other alternatives that I have just pointed out to be eligible for funded legal aid. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u29	Your name was not under the motion, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u30	No, but I still have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u31	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u32	It's exactly the last sentence. When it comes to purely legal advice, I understand that a lawyer says he can do it that way. What you would like with the Legal Loket is to bring those alternatives to the attention of the public and get people out of those legal procedures. How do we get the people who are not eligible for funded assistance from the Legal Loket away from the lawyer and get them to those alternatives, if necessary and appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u33	If someone comes to an attorney, it is of course up to the lawyer himself to advise on this in the right way. This is also covered by the code of conduct, which explicitly states that consultation must always be carried out in a friendly manner and preferably a friendly settlement. Attorneys are also expected to refer, if they are not the right point of contact, to another point of contact. Meanwhile, you have the Vereniging Eigen Huis, the Consumer Association, legal aid insurers and, for example, mediators where you can also seek advice. People should be able to find their own way in that. In my view, that is the system we have chosen together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u34	I also asked the Minister if he would consult with the Dutch Bar Association. I have heard a reply in the affirmative. I would like an addition to that. I was just sketching a spectrum. On the one hand, you have to want to accept a not too rigid maximum of points, because in some exceptional cases this can turn out wrong. On the other hand, you can ask some questions about an unlimited number of additions. I would like the Minister to take this point of departure, where Mr Wolfsen, through his committee, also makes recommendations on this subject in consultation with the Dutch Lawyers' Order and also here states that he shares that point of departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u35	I'll share that. I have listened carefully to Mr Recourt's comments on this point and to those of Mr Van Oosten. They both indicated that those 900 points might have been a little too rigid. Moreover, I have already said in general consultation that I fully understand the need to make exceptions on a number of points. I have already promised that I will enter into this discussion anyway. I will simply, in good consultation with the Dutch barristers' order, see where it should go. But I also share Mr Van Oosten's point of view. This also means that I assume that there is a chance that the order of lawyers on the one hand and me on the other hand will not reach a uniform judgment. Then I'll inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u36	Mr Van Nispen has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u37	In conclusion, may I ask the Minister, above all, to monitor the starting point of identifying a problem that calls for a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u38	I think that's the starting point for governing. Rule means you solve problems when you run into them. So this is policy support, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-22.u39	Thank you. The votes on the motions tabled will be taken next Tuesday.
