ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The health care reforms: too many tasks in too short a time over the fence to municipalities. The accountants have warned, all kinds of other organizations have warned and I have warned in this Chamber. So the Secretary of State was a warned man. Last week, the accountants called the doorbell again. The headline in the Financieele Dagblad was clear: accountants struggle with administrative chaos at municipalities and healthcare institutions. "Crazy" is called checking 25,000 contracts. The Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants advocates a practical solution. That's important. We're talking about caring for vulnerable citizens. Because of all the changes there is already far too much money spent on paper, accountants and accountants instead of spending money on care. This issue may make that even worse. The CDA Group therefore has the following questions. An accountant compared the accuracy of expenses in the care with not complaining of citizens as new lampposts burning. Doesn't the Secretary of State think this is a very strange comparison, since you are concerned about vulnerable citizens who sometimes don't even know where to deal with their complaints or objections? Has he consulted on how to solve this problem? If so, with whom? If not, why not? Is the Secretary of State prepared to commit to common agreements such as a review protocol, which means that auditors have to comply with already approved statements? This avoids that more work must be paid because both the care institution and the municipality and the cooperating municipality have to do double work and therefore also have to be paid. What's this joke gonna cost anyway? Does the Secretary of State have a visual on that? Is he gonna stop more money from going to paperwork instead of care? Will the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of how he's gonna solve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the preparation of the care purchase for 2015 by municipalities, we discussed in detail in this Chamber the key principles to be taken into account in the 2015 transition year. The most important thing, in my opinion, was that in the transition year people could have the care they needed, or that care contracts would be respected, so care could continue to exist. The focus for 2015 has been on this. This has led, among other things, to the fact that many municipalities have continued or have taken over existing contracts and provided for a more detailed provision. As regards registration, control and accountability, many agreements have been made. That is why we have been discussing the potential increase in registration charges with, among other things, the NBA since 2014. We asked what we could do to reduce it. A few steps have been taken. Firstly, in April 2015, a so-called model-shifter was made lawful. Municipalities can use them to agree on the burden of accountability between municipalities and healthcare providers, so that checks should not be carried out on the basis of all these contracts. It's more complicated than that, but let me explain it to you in a simple way. Municipalities can therefore use the model shifter in the checks. Secondly, a group has been formed by municipalities and healthcare providers to discuss further standardisations. Thirdly, in anticipation of the entry into force of the Wmo 2015 and also of the Youth Act, municipalities and healthcare providers have said that we need to ensure much more ICT standardisation in the messaging sector. The model shifter is ready. The working groups are working on standardisation. I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer that we absolutely must not accept all these contracts with the corresponding administrative burden. Instead, we must reduce the administrative burden. Mrs Keijzer asked about the comparison with lampposts. I also think that comparison wasn't so happy. However, I believe that the accountant meant something else. If you come to performance financing, the administrative burden can already be reduced as such. In the care we see that there is justification per patient, per operation and per product category. The accountant says you can do that a little easier. The comparison with lantern poles is not so happy, but it makes it clear that performance funding can help. Together with the VNG and healthcare providers, we try to facilitate standardisation, for both ICT and testing protocols. I am very willing to inform the Chamber about the agreements between the VNG and the healthcare providers during the year. Again, it is the responsibility of the municipalities and healthcare providers that standardisation is to be achieved. I'll keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Secretary of State just said it's not so lucky to compare long-term care with burning lampposts. I think it's totally inappropriate. The Secretary of State breaks down his answer in two parts. One part looks forward to the future. Standardisation is absolutely necessary. My questions, however, are about the problems that exist today. The remaining declarations of approval are going to lead to high costs and to situations in which all kinds of additional work will take place, because at all these different levels it is necessary to develop very precisely what happened with care money or not. The Secretary of State mentioned the model consultation legality, i.e. common agreements. I have a very practical question to the Secretary of State, as he is used to me, namely: what is going to happen by whom, where, when and how, to prevent this from becoming a major mess and to prevent it from leading to high-level costs, possibly to bankruptcy and ultimately to more situations where people do not get their care? I would like the Secretary of State to give me an undertaking that he is going to do his best to get those common agreements on legality really settled. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how that will be resolved within a few weeks. I don't want this moving forward again. This problem is too big for that. The interests are of such a nature that they cannot. We're talking about vulnerable people who are dependent on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	To be precise, the model-shifter has been legal since April 2015 and the model-control protocol has been in place since November 2015. So they're done. The municipalities must now apply them together with the healthcare providers. It is up to the municipalities, the healthcare providers and, by the way, the city council to do so. They can decide to work according to the model protocol or they can say: we do not want to; we want to have an in-depth audit of the annual accounts. I can make sure that the modeler has legitimacy and the model control protocol. I am very willing to emphasise to municipalities that they need to ensure that they use these things so that they have as few registrations as possible in respect of the annual accounts. However, it remains a decision that the municipality and the city council must make together with the college of mayor and aldermen. After all, it is their responsibility. However, I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer. Anything I can do to make sure that process goes well, I will. I am also very willing to inform the Chamber in due course of the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	You have 16 seconds left, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	I know. I can see that the Secretary of State is moving this forward again and that he is therefore not taking on his system responsibility, as it is called. The problems are the result of reforms being introduced too quickly. I'd better get back to asking written questions. I will raise this again at another time, because this is far too easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Just for the record. Mrs Keijzer says I'm moving a few things forward. However, I would point out that a number of things are already ready. So they're already ready. This means that municipalities which then have to apply in consultation with their healthcare providers. I cannot move forward things that are already ready, because they are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Secretary of State is cutting back 3 billion on healthcare, 75,000 jobs have been lost, and we hear here that he has created a bureaucratic chaos where the expensive ties of health insurance companies and all kinds of other audit firms are now getting in the way of consultation. So there's a lot of expensive ties that get money, but people at home don't get home care anymore. If the Secretary of State oversees this now, isn't he a little ashamed of his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	We may not have joined you together; I do not know what was important in the year 2015. It was important that, in this great transition with changes, we should ensure that people, where that is the issue, can continue to receive care or that new care can be contracted if they need it. We have put maximum pressure on the municipalities to ensure that the contracts would be taken over, that, with an expensive word, there would be care continuity and that this would take place in the transition year. Municipalities have done so; all attention was focused on ensuring that care could remain for those who need that care. Now we are looking at all these contracts and we are asked whether the registration burden of all these contracts is too high: shouldn't this be simpler and more standardised and shouldn't there be much more convenient agreements? Yeah, of course you should. I am glad that in 2015 that care continuity could be realised. I'll be even happier if we can make sure the registration burden is reduced. As far as I am concerned, the registration burden is getting lower than it used to be. That point is very high on the agenda for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I thank the Secretary of State.
