ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66. We still have a long night, so we're gonna limit ourselves to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u2	Mr. Chairman. In general, we discussed the agreements made between the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers and the Ministry in March 2015, almost two years ago, about an alternative to improving mathematics education, whereby the calculation test could eventually disappear. The Secretary of State said in this AO: "This appointment was not made at the time. I do not know if there is a misunderstanding (...)." This week he wrote in a letter: "In contrast to what the NVvW states, there was no question of placing an order with the NVvW to develop an alternative scenario for the calculation test." I do not think we should end up in a well-known non-discussion, but I think it is a curious matter. It is not the first time that the mathematics teachers have discussed these, otherwise very concrete, agreements. For a year and a half, they've been bringing that up to the Ministry. If there is miscommunication, why hasn't that been corrected much earlier? Why is the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers so long on the leash, all the way up to 2032 when it comes to the Secretary of State? Until then, precious time is wasted and precious opportunities for children, and that is what it is all about. We want to give children opportunities by making them count properly and not by failing them for a faulty calculation test. Together with my colleagues Jasper van Dijk and Michel Rog I have prepared three motions. I'll start with the first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good computational education is in the interests of each pupil;]] [[noting that pupils are failing on the basis of an inadequate test;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the accounting test immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Meenen, Jasper van Dijk and Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u3	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u4	Mr. Chairman. The math key isn't right. That is not only the theorem of a large part of this Chamber, but also of mathematics and mathematicians in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, there is a majority of VVD, PVV and PvdA who turn their backs on all the experts who claim this. The Secretary of State has spoken with the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. Mr Van Meenen has also tabled a motion on behalf of the CDA and the SP. Or no, that's what the SP's gonna do. Mr Van Meenen has indicated what we want, namely to abolish this calculation test. In any case, if there is no majority in favour of this, we shall try to get that calculation test out of the core subject scheme. The findings of the National Action Comitee Scholars show that even at the VWO in many schools there is no proper preparation for this calculation test. We therefore expect this motion to reach a majority. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the educational world there is little support for the calculation test and the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers considers it pointless to spend any longer time, money and energy in the current digital calculation test;]] [[noting that the calculation test in the vwo is part of the core subject scheme as from this school year;]] [[Whereas this assigns a disproportionate weight to the single digit of the calculation test;]] [[Whereas research carried out by the LAKS has shown that in many schools calculation education is not yet in order;]] [[calls on the government not to include the calculation test in the core subject scheme in the vwo;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have a question and a motion. The question is whether the Secretary of State can respond to this morning's article in the Volkskrant. Mr Van Meenen implicitly referred to the question of whether or not an appointment has been made with the mathematics teachers to have an alternative examined. This would have been the case on 5 March 2015, but according to the Secretary of State it is different. What's the deal now? My motion is crystal clear, which says: get to work with an alternative now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purpose of the introduction of the reference levels was to improve arithmetical education;]] [[Whereas this calls for the improvement of computational education at all levels of education, preferably by integrating mathematics and other subjects;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers (NVvW) with urgency to develop the NVvW's alternative to the calculation test including timeline, which focuses on improving computational education, and to inform the Chamber about this before March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u6	Mr. Chairman. We talked in the AA about the need for calculation education to be in order. That means, of course, starting with primary education, and I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas calculation, like language, is a basic skill that everyone needs to be able to stand on their own feet in society;]] [[Whereas the basis for computational skills is laid at primary school and it is important to maintain these skills and that all parties in the education chain have a share of responsibility in them;]] [[noting that primary education has not so far been part of the calculation agenda and that a continuous learning line has not been sufficiently developed;]] [[invites the government, with the PO Council, to agree on how to align them with the calculation agenda as a chain partner, and to inform the Chamber of 1 April 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31332-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u7	Mr. Chairman. I think I can go through it briefly. The motions on the part No. 79 and 80 we have seen before in a similar variant and I advise against both. They didn't make it in previous cases either. The motion in part No. 81 is about the conversations with the Dutch Association for Mathematics Teachers. Mr Van Dijk asks me to respond to the article in de Volkskrant. I believe that this article has been published in response to the letter I sent you, which, in my view, explains very well what has happened and has been agreed. I regret to note that the Dutch Association for Mathematics Teachers has a different interpretation of this. I'd like to get that misunderstanding out of the world as soon as possible. I will have another meeting with them in two weeks and will try to join them myself to see if we can smooth the folds. I don't really have that much to add to what I've already written in the letter and what I've already shared in the AO before. I told the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers that if you eventually want to go to another form of review, you should start looking at your curriculum. I also think that we can look at the proposals made by the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. For example, the NVvW proposes to make it part of the mathematics profession. Four or five years ago, by the way, they opposed this. That's why the math test is now there as it is. We can look at these proposals, but what we are proposing is not even one-two-three done. One asks, for example, to make it part of the mathematics profession on the havo and vmbo. There, however, mathematics is not part of the final exam for all students. So how are you going to make sure that all the kids can count at the end of the vmbo and the havo? It is proposed to introduce a test after three years. That would be a novel. We only know the central final exam at the end of secondary education. It is proposed to integrate arithmetic into many other subjects. That could be in theory, but that would mean you have to keep all those other subjects under review. You're gonna have to put some maths in there. It's all possible, but that really requires a thorough review of the curriculum. That is also the path that I think we should take. I also like doing this with the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. But it's not something you arranged very quickly. That is also the reason why I have tabled the motion in part No. 81 as it now stands, must be dissuaded. I'd like to talk to the people of the NVVW. I would also like to look with them to see if you can shape the curriculum of mathematics and mathematics in a better way, and if you can give mathematics a place in other subjects as well. But that can never be single. And it can't be with the time frame that's set in here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u8	Mr Van Meenen was first present at the interrupting microphone, but the motion is by Mr Van Dijk. It's also on the microphone. I shall give him the floor first, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u9	I think the Secretary of State can also take the motion very constructively. On the contrary, it opens the way to an alternative to current policies. The Secretary of State says he'll be in consultation. Why doesn't he approach that motion a little bit more constructively? Why doesn't he say, "Okay, I'll get to work on the alternative?" And then we look at the points that have just been mentioned, but I think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u10	The operative part of this motion calls for something really different. It calls for an alternative to the calculation test. It does not ask to consider whether the curriculum for mathematics and mathematics can improve. I think that's the order you have to follow. Key follows curriculum. That's exactly what the current math test does. The curriculum was established at the time. This was done before my time as Secretary of State and all the parties in the Chamber were involved. Except for the SGP, all the parties were on board at that time. This has led to reference levels. In the calculation test, nothing more and nothing less is done than the testing of those reference levels. A committee has also looked at whether this is indeed the case. The answer to that question is yes. Anyone who thinks that the key should be changed should not start moaning on the key, but should see if anything should change in the curriculum. However, this motion calls for something to be changed in that key. If the curriculum stays the same, it makes little sense to mortify the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u11	No, this is a misunderstanding. Let the Secretary of State read the operative part carefully. It asks for precisely the alternative of mathematics teachers to the mathematics test to be worked out. This alternative, at its core, concerns the improvement of computational education. So it is not about a different type of test, it is about completely different computational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u12	There really is something else in the operative part. That will also be the turn that Mr Van Dijk will give it in due course and the way in which Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen will give it. They'll say, no, it has to be about that test. However, I have said a number of times: it must be a revision of the curriculum. And if that is what this means, then I will also discourage the motion, because it would be completely superfluous. I have already promised to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u13	It is truly incredible how the Secretary of State not only distorts the words of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, he did so in yesterday's letter; I can give several examples of this, but I do so now with the words we use here. It is true that the alternative of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers means that there is no longer anything like the current mathematics test. It is a review of the curriculum with regard to the maintenance of computational skills in the superstructure and the application of computational skills in primary and secondary education. It's done by qualified math teachers. That's the alternative. Almost two years ago, the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers had the impression that she had an appointment with the Secretary of State. That was a very careful process. Two years have now passed without one step being taken. We just continued on the same road. The Secretary of State has not taken any opportunity to point out to the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers its apparently wrong interpretation of what is an agreement at the Ministry of OCW. Let us now look at Mr Van Dijk's motion and others. That is the alternative that the mathematics teachers have put forward. The mathematics teachers themselves say that it is an extremely marginal adjustment of the curriculum. For example, for vmbo it is not an adjustment of the curriculum at all. In the case of HAVO and VWO, it is mainly a question of including the maintenance of computational skills in the curriculum. That's also marginal. So I do not think the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State are valid. I therefore ask him once again to reconsider his assessment of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u14	It bothers me that Mr Van Meenen gives the impression that I am here inventing a game about what I have discussed with the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. If that is the case, Mr Van Meenen will have to table a completely different motion, I would almost say. I indicated what I discussed with the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers and what I said in that conversation. Apparently, there has been a misunderstanding. I note that this is not included in a letter until more than a year after the conversation took place, while in the meantime there have been just all kinds of meetings with that same association. I find that a little strange. Afterwards it was also indicated to the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers that we did not have the impression that that appointment had been made. So that's all just happened. Now that so many questions have arisen, I know what I will do next time. Next time, I will just make sure that a discussion report is made and that is established by the two parties. Then at least there can be no more noise on the line about what has been discussed. I hate to say it like this, but if it's really necessary, we'll do it that way. At the time, I indicated to the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers that I would like to see with her what you can do in the curriculum. At the same time, I find the solutions that she proposes really too easy. You're not here with "a marginal adjustment of the curriculum." This is much more fundamental. Let me give you an example. If we already see that schools have difficulty bringing children in VMBO to that level of calculation in four years, how will they be able to achieve this in two years' time? I'm very curious about that. I did not receive an answer from the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers when she came up with this plan. It was said: then do it in the substructure or integrate it into mathematics. Then I asked: how do you do that in the VMBO and the HAVO at the profiles in which students do not take a final exam in mathematics? I didn't get an answer to that. Then you could make mathematics mandatory for all students, but that's a big increase in the curriculum for some of those students. Then they must master mathematics and mathematics. You can, but you have to look at it more fundamentally. That too is not something you have arranged just as quickly, because if you want mathematics to be compulsory for all students on havo and vwo, that requires a change of law and after a change of law we are probably still in the process of making sure that it lands in the classes. In other words, it's not something you take care of in between. That's a really heavy overstatement. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u15	Very briefly, Mr Van Meenen. Not at all. Just a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u16	It is referred to for a moment that I should perhaps have tabled another motion. Maybe I can go into that and then I have another question. I've considered filing another motion, but I don't have the facts for that. Well, then you'd have to get a story of the facts first. It is incomprehensible that there are no reports of such conversations. In my first term, I also said that I do not want to put my energy into a wells-nothing game. I just want the best math for those kids and I want to get rid of this test. That's what the math teachers want. My question is: why does the Secretary of State now think he knows better than mathematics teachers that the provision of better computational education by mathematics teachers; perhaps that is not a good alternative for quality, starting with primary and secondary education? Why does he think he knows better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u17	I just asked simple questions. What if you integrate it into math, which, by the way, is normal? A school can choose to make computational education part of the mathematics classes. Nothing stands in the way of a school doing that. Only, not all students in all profiles have mathematics in the final exam and they don't all have mathematics in the upper education. Then what do you do in those cases, then, is my question. There is no satisfactory answer from the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers. In fact, neither does Mr Van Meenen, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u18	That's entrapment. I'm a math teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u19	Just because you're a math teacher, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u20	This is the first advantage I've had of that in my entire life. The Secretary of State goes through it every time to the final exam, because he wants the math test on the final exam. Of course not all students should take final exams in mathematics, but fortunately; that should be added! They all have to take this Secretary of State's math test now. That is precisely what the people who know about it, such as the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers, want to get rid of. This does a lot of kids wrong. That's the point. Then you limit it to the substructure and then you can do it. Then the Secretary of State's whole story is about "how do you get that to the final exam?" Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u21	Then it is assumed that anything that is already difficult for schools to do so in the entire period of secondary education can be put in place. I wouldn't know one-two-three how that would go and how education and calculation results would go up if you had to achieve the same in less time. In addition, the follow-up education also comes directly around the corner. Take the discussion we had in the MBO. It is very important that in secondary education, at the end of the school, we look at where children stand with mathematics. We expect the MBO to help these children, those students, one step further. That also indicates that it is connected with the other. The proposal of the Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers also has a lot of hooks and eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u22	Then the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u23	I have already indicated that I would find this in itself a very plausible addition. As far as I'm concerned, it's up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u24	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-46.u25	I propose that we vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday. Before proceeding with the next debate, we shall suspend for a single moment.
