ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Remco Bosma on behalf of the VVD Group. I understand this is his maiden speech. In this house, this means that there must be no interruption and no in-between remarks. You have the floor, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a minor change of law, but one with a long history. I share some of that history in common with this subject, although the term "net neutrality" had not yet been invented in the late 1990s. Net neutrality means that Internet providers should not treat or block certain types of Internet traffic as a priority. This means that an internet provider simply has to pass on all data on an equal footing, not charge extra costs and not filter: equal bytes, equal caps. When I wrote an article on net neutrality for an internal VVD programme fifteen years ago, I was concerned that information access would be voluntarily restricted by the installation of specific internet brows or internet portals. This would allow only filtered information to be obtained, which could significantly affect the world view of the user. Everyone's digital blinders. This could also be enforced in small communities in which group pressure is high and thus a narrowed world view can be imposed. It could have gone a long way. For example, a certain internet filter that uses the ten commandments could not only filter blasphemy, hate, gambling and eroticism, but also block sites with top sports and video services like YouTube. That kept me out of my sleep. Wasn't this a stepping stone to far-reaching indoctrination or even radicalisation? George Orwell's 1984 book, once read for my school book list, was also the reason to look closely at the issue of the free availability of information. We do not want, to name but one item, that evolution theory or the Holocaust disappears from our consciousness because such a subject is structurally filtered away. Wouldn't we, à la Orwell, be stuck with a new version of "newspeak": every new version with even less distasteful terms for Big e-Brother? The evaluators at the age of my article didn't recognize much in it, despite the fact that I had added several newspaper articles describing the first signals that were misguidedly searched for ways to clause access to information. Perhaps I should have informed them first if they knew what the internet was. If they weren't familiar with that, the issue I wanted to raise was a long way from their bed. Now, fifteen years later, the Internet is almost a utility and we are talking about net neutrality, where this part is well secured through the present legislative proposal. The world, especially the digital world, has changed considerably during that period. Calling in to access the Internet, using specific software provided, is long overdue. The Internet has now become much more accessible and is more commonplace. It's almost standard on every cell phone. On another point, too, the Internet has changed. In the early days, the web was a digital no-man's land where scientists could easily exchange knowledge on the Internet. In addition, there was a lot of free, creative space that offered early adapters the opportunity to experiment. Something that was hardly present at the time was e-commerce. Marketplace and eBay had yet to be developed. The Internet is now big business. The Internet has, you might say, grown up in a certain way. A large part of the distribution of information takes place over the Internet. Use is not limited to a few young enthusiasts. Even my father, 74 years old, sits on the couch with a tablet to look up a specific cycle route. Access to the Internet is now essential in order to remain connected to society. This applies entirely to entrepreneurs. If you don't have the clicks, you're screwed with the bricks. In that context, I only mention two letters: V&D. Therefore, it is not without reason that the Chamber has considered early that access to the Internet should not be dominated by a specific party, by defining in law the concept of "net neutrality." Small start-ups are becoming large in a growth market and can eventually become market dominant in a digital environment. Given the importance of ICT for our economy, net neutrality is therefore a prerequisite for our society. Then we come to the first part of what we mean by net neutrality: all data must be passed on on an equal footing and no additional costs must be calculated. A dominant party likes to determine which goods are made available where and at what price. That is why we have ensured at the Albert Cuyp, or at any other weekly market, that the market manager does not manage a market stall on the same market. Such a far-reaching separation is not settled through net neutrality. An Internet provider may take charge of the Internet distribution, provide content and distribute it where it can via the same distribution channel. However, we do not accept that he is taking a toll on the access roads to the digital Albert Cuyp or, worse still, hindering access to it. New developments do not get a chance, and as the Netherlands, for example, you become less competitive. You'll be out of the field where it happens. That is why we, as a VVD, are continuing to focus on free market access. We are working hard to ensure that our zzp neighbor around the corner can continue to play a full part in the digital market. The first response to the EU regulation laying down measures on open internet access was that only part of our definition of net neutrality would be embraced. Apparently, they were still not sufficiently aware in Europe of the way market power manifests itself in the digital market. For them, the Netherlands was too far ahead to be able to comprehend it. The note following the report and a letter of amendment have recently become available. On the basis of this information, it has been found that the Minister is able to find a way to maintain the ban on price discrimination as requested by the Court. In doing so, the Minister fully meets the wishes of the Chamber. I thank him for that, of course. The sector is asking whether the last adjustments are legitimate. That is why I ask the Minister, firstly, whether these adjustments are robust enough to resist opposition and appeal. Secondly, I would like to ask whether market developments are being monitored. Developments in the sector are continuing. There is now a further horizontal integration between internet, TV, and fixed and mobile calls. This means that legislation needs to be updated periodically in order to remain connected to this high-dynamic sector. My third question is to what extent the Minister expects Member States to interpret matters in the regulation, such as price discrimination, differently. If that is the case, what does that mean for the aim of harmonization? In short: will the minister remain at the ball? Finally, from this point on, I would like to thank all the staff of the House of Representatives, who so quickly showed me how to live in this house of democracy. Madam President, this is it for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u3	I would like to congratulate you on your beautiful maiden speech, Mr Bosma. I see that almost the entire VVD group is here to congratulate you. I will suspend the sitting for a moment to give you the opportunity to congratulate. But of course, I won't do that until after I shake your hand first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Bosma on his fantastic maiden speech on this wonderful subject. I regret, however, that all the other members of the VVD Group, who have just been present in the Chamber, are no longer here. I would have liked to speak to them about Internet freedom; that could not have been a bad thing. However, I hope that Mr Bosma will pass on the information he is taking today to all the members of his group. It is now almost four years since net neutrality was enshrined in Dutch law thanks to a D66 law amendment. That's something to be proud of, because the Netherlands took the lead internationally. The anchor even made it to The New York Times. The fact was welcomed as a victory for consumers and for start-ups, because, just as Mr Bosma just said, internet services could no longer be blocked but could no longer be promoted. It was also a victory for a free and open internet. It was in line with the way the Internet was designed at the time. Net neutrality has always been the starting point for the operation of the Internet. So the government shouldn't interfere with that. At that time we hoped that this leading position of the Netherlands would have a positive impact on the debate in Europe and elsewhere in the world. The Netherlands played a progressive, progressive role worldwide in ensuring an open and free internet, and thus also for freedom of expression, and for the rights of consumers and new emerging companies that want to compete against the established order. In America, this positive influence has indeed played a role, because that is where net neutrality was enshrined in the law last year. Unfortunately, however, things have been very different in Europe. Due to the strong positions of national regulators, as well as of telecom giants and other Internet providers with monopoly positions in southern European countries in particular, the European regulation seemed to be moving towards fake neutrality rather than net neutrality. This was particularly the case because there was no explicit prohibition of price discrimination. That is precisely why the Netherlands voted against the regulation. Even a pro-European party like D66 was very pleased with that. We congratulated the Minister on his attitude in this regard in the Council. I am also pleased with the letter of amendment now before us. It still regulates that efforts are being made in the Netherlands to approach this net neutrality as closely as possible. As far as I am concerned, the Minister deserves to be congratulated on this. As far as I am concerned, this is even one of his greatest successes. He can look back on that with pride. Of course, there are still concerns about specialized services and traffic management. That is why we will support the SP Group's amendment that has already been tabled. The precise impact on practice will remain a matter for implementation and monitoring. In a way, however, this is only the beginning of a very big discussion. I'd like to devote a few minutes to that. In the coming years, we will have many debates on how the government plays a role in and influences the functioning of the Internet. For example, encryption will be one of the topics in those debates. Thanks to the FBI vs. Apple's case in the United States, the discussion has exploded. Fortunately, thanks to D66's insistence, the Netherlands has taken a sharp, firm and once again very progressive position on this issue, namely that encryption software should not be weakened by backdoors. Encryption is essential for the security of Internet users and "the integrity of ICT systems, which are increasingly important for the functioning of society." This was written by the Minister in his letter of 4 January 2016. In addition, the Chamber adopted an amendment to the EZ budget, with which we invest EUR 0.5 million in strong encryption software. In the Netherlands, we do not weaken encryption by building backdoors, but invest actively in good open source encryption software. Great! That's very good. With these steps, the Netherlands again made it to the New York Times. Again, we were the frontrunner in one of the important discussions about the Internet and protecting the digital rights of Internet users. Once again, we had a position on which we should be proud. Yet it is not just rose scent and moonshine. The cabinet is taking the wrong path in other areas. The next important debate on a free and open internet is already taking place after May. When dealing with the Game Act, there is a power to block websites via DNS and IP blocks on the agenda. The Scientific Board for Government Policy, the WRR, has written a very good report on this, entitled The Public Core of the Internet. In that regard, the WRR argues that the government should not interfere with the technical functioning of the Internet, in this case the central protocols of the Internet. With such interventions, the government would undermine people's confidence in the Internet, which would have a major impact on the economy, society and people's freedom. As the WRR says in the aforementioned report, "These practices lead (potentially) to a reduction in the reliability of the functioning of the Internet as a whole. (...) if we can no longer trust the integrity, availability and confidentiality of the Internet, it will have consequences for the way we want and can handle it. And that has implications for the socio-economic structure that we have built on that infrastructure: from online banking to communication." Such interventions in the technical functioning of the Internet today and where it will be much more frequent in the future, because we see in many countries that the government wants to make greater use of the opportunity to intervene in the Internet to pursue policy objectives are unacceptable in regard to D66. I hope that the cabinet will come to the same conclusion and that it will continue the line that has been put in place in the area of net neutrality and encryption. I would like to stress once again that there is a good line in the cabinet response that we will be sent to deal with the Game Act. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to discuss this with his colleague from V and J. I'm rounding up. As far as D66 is concerned, the Netherlands is and will remain a guide country, in the area of digital rights, in the area of Internet governance and in the area of the role of the government in the digital domain. This means true net neutrality and strong encryption without backdoors, but no interventions in the technical functioning of the Internet, no police authority to hack through vulnerabilities in software and not unlimited data collection about innocent people. I hope that the other parties in favour of net neutrality today will be almost Chamber-wide in favour of net neutrality; that was quite different four years ago.................................................................................................................................................................... I am also counting on their support in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to our new colleague Remco Bosma, who made his maiden speech with a glowing speech. I was particularly interested in the words "it's almost a utility" and "access to the Internet to keep in touch with society." Those are words that appeal to me very much. In the future, we will certainly have to discuss this. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a precursor to net neutrality. Like many other parties, the CDA has advocated the maintenance of the current Dutch legislation on net neutrality. This was also the Minister's aim. In the negotiations with Europe, it seemed almost impossible to achieve this. The Netherlands has therefore also voted against the regulation, with the main reason that it does not have a clear ban on price discrimination. In view of the above, the CDA is positively surprised that the letter of amendment retains the prohibition of price discrimination. Further examination of the text of Article 3 of the Regulation has led the Minister to conclude that the European regime also prohibits price discrimination. To clarify this, the letter of amendment maintains the explicit prohibition of price discrimination in the third paragraph of Article 7.4a of the Act. The CDA is very pleased that this removes an important pain point and creates a situation in which no form of price discrimination is allowed. We are a bit curious about the background to this. How can it be that the Minister first of all found that there is no clear prohibition of price discrimination in the regulation, in order to discover, on closer examination, that the regulation, fortunately, contains a ban on price discrimination? This is all the more surprising because we had just asked the Dutch Government to vote against in Europe, partly on our behalf. The Minister would like to give a closer look to the House of Representatives on this point. Now there is also an explicit ban on price discrimination in other European countries, because this is a regulation. Isn't that right? We would also like to hear whether maintaining the third paragraph of Article 7.4a, which provides for an explicit ban on price discrimination, is sufficient to maintain a ban on price discrimination in the Netherlands. Indeed, it is characteristic of a regulation that it works directly and therefore does not need to be implemented. Moreover, our Constitution stipulates that a regulation is above the Dutch law. This brings us to the question of whether the letter of amendment is legally sustainable and does not conflict with the third paragraph of Article 3 of the Regulation and Article 4 of the Framework Directive. Does the Minister expect any further infringement proceedings against the Netherlands? The Minister states that, following the letter of amendment, he considers that a situation has arisen in which there is a high degree of continuity of the current situation under the existing Dutch legislation. The practical impact of this bill on end-users and providers is expected to be limited by the Minister. In order to assess this, the CDA would like to hear what it considers to be the most important changes following the entry into force of the Regulation. The Minister indicated in the reply that the Regulation does not contain provisions on the cost to the end user for the use of the certified monitoring mechanism. This mechanism should enable the end user to demonstrate that there is a continuous or regular significant discrepancy between the actual performance of the Internet access service and the contractually agreed performance. So, what do you get delivered for your money? In the absence of any provision in this regard, the future providers of this mechanism are free to charge for this. The CDA wonders whether this would not raise too high a threshold for end-users who would like to contact Internet providers for non-compliance with contractual internet speeds. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. The explanatory memorandum states that the legislative proposal does not entail any administrative burden. On the other hand, the note on the report states that the regulation itself entails administrative burdens and implementation costs. The question then arises as to what administrative burden of supervision this regulation actually entails. We would like some clarification on this. That brings me to the next point. The Minister states that the ACM, the Authority for Consumer & Market, has agreed that it can submit a substantiated request for capacity expansion after the adoption of the guidelines. Why is that so necessary if it is all not so bad with the supervisory burden? The Minister himself states that the regulation has a high degree of continuity with the current situation under the Dutch rules. Is there already a shortage of capacity in the Consumer & Market Authority? Can the Minister indicate what is actually changing in the task package for the ACM compared to the current situation? What are the chances that a possible request from the ACM will be met and that it will receive additional money? It might have been a bit of a technical story, but it was really about the law. We are certainly going to have the other discussions, as the other colleagues have also pointed out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to hear a fellow spokesperson speak about the start of Internet access for everyone. I sometimes feel like a lost cyber hippie in this often alpha-dominated working environment, but Mr Bosma's words give me the hope that 1984 should not be seen as an example, but as a warning. Hopefully we can pull them side by side. The PvdA Group has always been in favour of as complete a net neutrality as possible, with an explicit ban on price discrimination. It is therefore satisfied that the government is maintaining the ban on price discrimination laid down in Dutch law, even if this would lead to infringement proceedings by the European Commission. The bill stipulates that the net neutrality regulation can be further developed in an AMvB. Those rules can be very important, because they will ultimately determine what net neutrality will look like in practice. The now deleted paragraph 1 of Article 7.4a contains a number of provisions on congestion, network security, spam and judicial orders. These provisions will undoubtedly be translated into the AMvB. Can the PvdA Group assume that this AMvB is first placed in the Chamber? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. A difference between the Telecommunications Act and the Regulation is that the Regulation focuses only on Internet access services, while the Telecommunications Act focuses not only on this but also on network providers. The Regulation will enter into force on 30 April. To what extent can this still be distinguished? Is it not desirable that this distinction should be maintained, whereby access can be organised as a useful function, competition between services can be increased and freedom of choice for consumers can be increased? Can the Minister investigate to what extent the distinction between access and services under the regulation can still be effectively made, with access to the Internet being regulated as a utility to which everyone is always entitled? I realise that this would mean an extension of universal services and that the European Union is now addressing this issue, but would it not be good if the Netherlands were to show its innovative side here too? Wouldn't it be good if the Netherlands showed itself as a frontrunner and took the initiative to start a thorough investigation into the possibilities? Unfortunately, the PvdA Group notes that the Netherlands is regarded by leading research institutes as a country that, with its pace and ambitions for the roll-out of broadband connections on the Internet, is at risk of falling behind. That's not supposed to happen, is it? This legislative proposal gives the ACM the power to issue certificates in respect of methods for establishing performance values. This concerns both download and upload speeds. If there is a regular difference between the speeds in the contract and the actual speed, then there is a civil-law misconduct. The CDA colleague already asked questions about this. The answer shows that the consumer will then be able to opt for a number of civil proceedings. The PvdA Group doubts whether these individual civil-law steps are so efficient and whether the taking of evidence cannot be an essential problem. Individuals face telecom giants. That can lead to an unequal battle. Administrative enforcement by the ACM with administrative fines, periodic penalty payments and binding indications can be much more effective and efficient. Is it true that the regulation also makes this possible, especially if there is insufficient contractual information on the performance of the Internet access service? These are all very long words today! Where exactly is the competence based on Article 4 of the Regulation regulated? Does that happen in the aforementioned AMvB? As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this makes the pending procedure all the more important. The PvdA Group also wonders how many FTEs the ACM will use to monitor the download speed. One question remains for me: how is the implementation of the motion-De Love/Oosenbrug/Agnes Mulder (24095, no. 363) from 2014? For those of you who remember, it was about removing the transition thresholds. Although this does not apply to this law, it is part of the Telecom Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am filling in for my colleague Klever, who is unfortunately still ill. By way of exception, I would like to congratulate the Minister for his opposition to the net neutrality regulation in Brussels. I would say: vote more often against Brussels legislation which is not in Dutch interest! It is clear that this European regulation is not in the interests of Dutch consumers. In the Netherlands, net neutrality is perfectly regulated, but the Brussels bureaucrats are destroying it again with this regulation. Another piece of Dutch sovereignty is being taken away. Now the Dutch consumers are saddled with a European fake neutrality. Unfortunately, the D66 spokesperson has already come up with that joke, but that only shows how this European regulation is going. For example, we are being extradited to the whims of the telecom companies for a little bit. We expect them to take advantage of any opportunity to make the consumer feel better again. Let me quote a few examples of this. First of all, I will deal with the legislative proposal itself, which has given rise to a little fog. In the note following the report, the Minister stated that the vote against was based on the absence of an explicit ban on price discrimination. However, further examination shows that price discrimination is still prohibited and that the current Dutch explicit ban on price discrimination can therefore continue to exist. The Minister has therefore submitted a letter of amendment to restore this. This somewhat chaotic state of affairs raises a number of questions. Why did the Minister initially delete the Dutch Article 7.4a, third paragraph, while it was apparently unclear whether this article was in breach of European legislation? How can this crucial article be misinterpreted in the first instance? Is this a failure on the part of an official or is this the result of the tendency which apparently exists in the cabinet to be the goodest boy in the class every time? Would the Minister with the science of today still have voted against the European Net Neutrality Regulation? As far as PVV is concerned, the answer to the last question must be "yes'. After all, although the main objection to price discrimination has been met, it is clear that this Net Neutrality Regulation nevertheless undermines the Dutch strict neutrality clause. Despite the lack of progress made by the Minister in this legislative proposal, the Council of State also makes this point in its response. It is precisely this fog that allows telecom companies in other countries to attack pure net neutrality. For example, in the US, although with Netflix's permission, the download speed for videos is restricted by certain telecom companies or you can use Netflix in a lower resolution with other companies without this going away from your data bundle. This is interpreted as being good for the consumer, but in fact it simply undermines net neutrality. Does the Minister share this conclusion? Can he guarantee that such practices are not possible under this Regulation? Clearly, the PVV is not waiting for this undesirable EU interference. We believe that the Dutch strict net neutrality should not be affected. I therefore call on the Minister not to bow to the Brussels dictatorships and to throw this net neutrality regulation in the shredder. Let the Authority just maintain our own net neutrality provisions and do not burden us with this European fake neutrality!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon I am replacing my colleague Sharon Gesthuizen with whom the Minister is used to discussing these matters. She therefore expressly asked me to start with a compliment to the Minister. That is what I want to do here. However, I am not the first, because D66 and the PVV have already done so. They gave broad support. The SP does that heartily. I heard D66 and the PVV making the same jokes about fake neutrality. I won't do that again, because a third time is no fun at all. However, I agree. I would also like to congratulate Mr Bosma on his maiden speech. The SP has regularly discussed net neutrality with the Minister: treating all data equally, so that the provider may not give priority to one type of data on the network above the other. In that discussion, there was always a broad wish, including with the Minister, to maintain the net neutrality that we now have. A European regulation would make that impossible. The Minister has worked hard and yet found a way to maintain the rules on net neutrality. My group is not only complimentary, but also happy to cooperate. That's why the Minister wants to give us another hand. The European Commission's regulation leaves some definitions open. A number of articles refer to non-internet services that use the networks of telecom providers. Among other things, the Minister talks about the analogue telephone connection and Digitenne, but this is not recorded. In addition, the Regulation refers to imminent or imminent network congestion, overload of the network, against which a provider can take action. There are no definitions of this either. Our fear now is that, by leaving this open, the definitions will be interpreted more widely than is desirable, especially by large and powerful companies. In the future, there will probably be a lot more non-internet services. This bill gives the Lower House, but also the Minister, no control over its admission. The same applies to the overload. For this purpose, the Authority will draw up rules, while I believe this is a task of the government's politics. That is why my colleague, Mr Gesthuizen, has tabled an amendment thanking in advance D66 for the support that should be made clear in advance when there is a threat of overtaxation of networks and which non-internet services are allowed. The Minister, at General Measure of Governance, is given the opportunity to make definitions, so that telecoms providers, as well as citizens, know in advance what they are up to. I hope not only for the support of D66, but I actually hope for broad support here in the Chamber. If this amendment is adopted with broad support, we will certainly vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u9	The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u10	Madam President. I would like to join those who have congratulated Mr Bosma. We can also congratulate him, because it is great to be part of the highest body in terms of government in this country: the House of Representatives. So I would like to congratulate him on his membership of the House of Representatives and congratulate him on his maiden speech. As others have said, it is very remarkable that he was working on the subject of net neutrality 15 years ago. That's really special. I don't think anyone in this room can repeat that to him. I estimate that Mr Verhoeven was still in high school at the time. Many didn't even know the Internet existed at that time. Mr Bosma already knew this and was already working on it in this way. I think it is a privilege for him to participate as a Member of Parliament in decision-making on this issue. I would like to respond to the points raised by Mr Bosma in substance, as well as to the comments made by others. How can you first want to remove a provision which explicitly prohibits price discrimination from the law and then reverse it by letter of amendment? I think this is a very legitimate question from Mr Bosma and others. It is understandable that Mr Madlener is questioning me critically in the way he has just done that. We have tried in the negotiations in Brussels to get an explicit ban on price discrimination in the regulation. We couldn't do that. I have been impressed by this and in my desire or desire to work out this regulation as soon as possible in a Dutch law, I have thought: well, we have not succeeded, then we must take out the explicit ban on price discrimination already contained in our Telecommunications Act. I filed that bill. On second thought, I did it too soon. I should have thought about that a little longer. I've kept thinking about that. At that time I realized that although the text of the regulation does not contain an explicit ban on price discrimination, it does contain an explicit ban on discrimination: you must not discriminate. You may not discriminate by blocking or giving priority to certain sites, but also not by making one pay and the other not, or by making one pay less than another. That is also a form of discrimination. I thought: it does not explicitly say that price discrimination should not be allowed, but it does say that discrimination should not be allowed in a broad sense. This also implies price discrimination. If we have added in our law that price discrimination is not allowed, then that will only give us more clarity, I thought on closer consideration. I know that the Chamber, like me, believes that there should be no uncertainty in the Netherlands about net neutrality and the prohibition of price discrimination. Then I realized that I had not properly submitted my original bill on this matter to the Chamber and that I had to correct myself. I did so on that letter of amendment. Mr Madlener asks whether the insight I have now, if I had had it at the time, would have led me not to vote against that regulation. I can't completely reverse that. I know we were very fixated on this. We didn't do that. Other countries really thought that the text of this regulation allowed them to discriminate on a prize. I came to the conclusion afterwards that this is not allowed. I do not know whether I would have considered it important at the time to include this in the context of clarity, even if discrimination was prohibited in a broad sense, so I would prefer not to answer this question retroactively. I do think that some other Member States who want to continue to discriminate on prize should now come to the understanding that this is not possible. If the regulation prohibits discrimination, it also applies directly to them and then they should not discriminate on price. I believe that those Member States that were expecting this to be possible from now on will be disappointed. Some spokesmen have asked whether this is sustainable. I am convinced that the final text of the regulation, as I have just explained, is clearer. The Netherlands itself drew a conclusion from this. At least, that is the case if the Chamber agrees to this bill. I do not think that conclusion is unclear. On the basis of that regulation and our position, we have adopted this legislative amendment together. I believe that this has given the best possible clarity. This is also fully in line with the text of the regulation and is ultimately the most important text. I am convinced that this robust proposal can be well defended. I'm guessing they're not gonna come up against that. If that happens, it seems to me that our position can be defended. Eventually, it'll turn out to be the right position. I hope that I have given sufficient consideration to this important point, which has been raised by Mr Bosma and others. Mr Bosma raised a second point. He wanted us to keep a close eye on developments in the market in this area. Like Mr Bosma, I am convinced that this is absolutely necessary. We are in a transition situation in which traditional media, Internet applications, telecom applications, mobile and fixed telephone calls and the expansions that we have seen in this process are overflowing with television and digital platforms. The world is changing at this point. We must therefore do two things. Firstly, we must try to keep our legislation up-to-date. Secondly, we must formulate our legislation in such a way that we do not stand in the way of new developments and slow them down in advance, but make it possible to do so within the framework that we, as legislators, consider important. The cabinet is working on a number of things on this point. In 2013 and in 2014, I sent policy letters to the Chamber containing the medium-term vision of the issues I mentioned: telecommunications, media, the Internet and everything that comes with it. That is what we discussed in the Chamber. At the end of last year, I sent a letter to the Chamber on future-proof legislation in the light of the digital platforms and the collaborative economy. That is also the subject of this debate. Around the summer I will send the Chamber a letter on the Digital Agenda for the Netherlands. I shall go into this further in that agenda. As Mr Bosma said, the European Commission will also make proposals for the revision of the European telecoms directives. At the end of last year I informed the Chamber about this. If there are such proposals, we will, of course, also discuss them with the Chamber. So this is in full swing. We must be closely involved. The Chamber has always felt very involved in this. I will continue to follow the discussions with the Chamber on these developments. Mr Bosma wondered whether the other Member States would interpret the regulation in the same way as the Netherlands. That was his third point. I don't think it should be any different. A regulation is precisely a regulation because, unlike a directive, it has direct effect in the Member States. It simply needs to be implemented by the Member States. We have now come to the conclusion that a ban on discrimination is by definition a ban on price discrimination. We believe that this applies to the Netherlands and we believe that this applies to other Member States. We therefore expect that other Member States have already come to this understanding or will come to this understanding. In this way, we in Europe will have equality in this respect. So much for the points raised by Mr Bosma. Mr Verhoeven supported the SP amendment. The Chamber invited me here. The amendment has also been tabled to give me the opportunity to respond. Just as I offer the Chamber an opportunity to respond to my bill, the Chamber will give me an opportunity to respond to an amendment. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven would also like to listen to my arguments and, on that basis, consider whether he can maintain his support for that amendment. I shall come back to that when I discuss this amendment by Mrs Gesthuizen. I think it would be best to respond a little more fully to the SP and its spokesman, Mr Van Raak. Mr Verhoeven also spoke about an opportunity to block illegal gambling sites. He said that my colleague in the security and justice field would come up with a bill on that point and that I would have to talk to him about asking him to come back at his pace, because this should not be done. I believe, along with Mr Verhoeven, that we should not be lightly dealing with the possibility of blocking websites. Once you start that, you don't know where that ends. So you have to be cautious in that. The Gambling Act, which is in preparation, also presents this as an ultimatum remedium and is also linked to the condition that a judge-supervisor must have given prior authorisation in an individual case. Article 7.4a of the Telecommunications Act already states that an exception to the general ban on blocking Internet traffic may be made by order of the court. Blocking Internet traffic should not be allowed, but we live in the rule of law and the judge may, on the basis of his findings in a particular investigation, consider that it is necessary to make an exception to that rule. That exception was already in our own law and is now also in the regulation. I think we should hold that line. My line is similar to that of Mr Verhoeven with regard to the non-blocking of websites, but I hope that our line is also right when I say that a judge should have the opportunity, just as he does now, to make an exception in the interests of justice. Mr Verhoeven has also raised a number of other points, which I will go into in more detail and also to the other spokesmen. Mrs Mulder has already received a response from me to the change in course of the original legislative proposal through the letter of amendment. She asked what the most important changes were as a result of this Regulation. We believe that price discrimination can remain in the law. Thus, at present, nothing changes the main rule of net neutrality and the corresponding ban on discrimination including price discrimination. The regulation is a little stricter on specialized services, but I will come back to that in a moment. The Netherlands had already imposed conditions on those specialised services. It should not be the case that you are going to restrict general Internet access to offer specialised services opportunities with regard to the Internet. That view was already expressed in our law, and it is also contained in the regulation, but it is being made even more clear. In my opinion, that is an improvement. The regulation also introduces additional obligations for Internet providers: they need to provide clear information in contracts about the expected internet speeds and they need to introduce a complaint procedure. I think it's really good to do this. I will come back later on to what the ACM can do on this point. I think it is very wise to ensure that when advertising is done at a certain speed on the Internet, it is also done in practice. If this does not happen, the information given is incorrect and this gives the ACM the opportunity to act against it. This regulation supports this in an even better way than our law already did. The Regulation also provides support to end-users. If consumers are offered, or advertised, a speed of 100, I would mention, when it turns out to be only 50, they must be able to act against it. But for them it is very difficult to prove that the speed is lower than the speed at which it was advertised. Therefore, the Regulation allows the ACM in the Netherlands to determine whether the internet speed is too low in an objective way. If the ACM has established a system for this, the consumer does not have to do so anymore. If something like this has been established, the consumer can rely on it and say to his internet provider: you did not do what you promised me in your ads; I will give you the chance to do so quickly and if you do not, I will terminate my contract and go to another. I believe that this procedure, too, is an improvement resulting from the regulation. Mrs Mulder asked whether there was any additional administrative burden. What changes will be made to the administrative burden under this Regulation? This Regulation does not include reporting obligations to general government. That therefore does not mean any administrative burden in this respect. There are compliance costs. In particular, transparency obligations should be considered. I think it's very important. I don't feel sorry for Internet providers. They just need to be transparent. They need to explain clearly what their services are and about the traffic management measures they take to ensure an undisturbed Internet usage. They need to explain what is possible when it comes to downloading and uploading. They also need to set up a complaint procedure. These are compliance costs, but very useful compliance costs. I also think that the companies should take care of them. Ms Mulder further asked what the ACM would do about supervision. We must be careful to say to the ACM every time we have a part of the ACM: that is important, that more needs to be done, that priority must be given, that there must be more supervision and ACM capacity. The ACM is a very large organisation: more than 500 people work. She also has a large budget and can do a lot. Like us, it has a responsibility to set priorities in all the tasks for which it has received money and people, to divide those priorities and to shift them, depending on developments. I think that's further a matter for the ACM. I trust that the capacity at the ACM is sufficient to do what needs to be done here. I don't know exactly how many places of formation and so on. In the old situation of the law, the ACM already had responsibilities which it had to fulfil and for which formation places were needed. This is also the case in the new situation. The new situation also needs to be put in place at the beginning and then you might have to do something extra for it. After some time, it might get worse. So I guess we should just leave this at the ACM. We have made the ACM independent and given it housing, resources and people and people. She has to do her useful work with that. She does that in a way I really appreciate. I should like to comment on what Mrs Oosenbrug has said. I always wish her strength as a beta woman between all the alphas and gammas here in the room. She's been sighing that this isn't always easy. We'll try to make it as bearable as possible for her. Mrs Oosenbrug has received a response to the question whether the change of course we are continuing is sufficiently robust compared to the original legislative proposal. I hope she has come to the conclusion with me that it is indeed sufficiently robust. In any case, I can see that it is in line with the line that Mrs Oosenbrug has always put forward in the Chamber. Mrs Oosenbrug says that the bill stipulates that the net neutrality regulation can be further developed in an AMvB. She says that there is uncertainty about that and that you should not really leave it to the cabinet to come up with an AMvB if it thinks it is necessary. You should actually instruct the Cabinet in the law to come up with an effect anyway. I disagree with Mrs Oosenbrug. If you see what's in the bill... Mr. Chairman. I repeat myself on this point. In particular, Mrs Oostenbrug said that if an AMvB is to be placed before the Chamber. The point that an AMvB should not be optional, that its preparation should not be left to the cabinet, but that it should be done anyway, is raised with the Gasthuizen amendment. I will be coming to Mr Van Raak in a moment and back to the Chamber through him. I'm going back to Mrs Oosenbrug's input. She says an AMvB has to be prepped at the Chamber. She and I both know that in the case of delegation to lower regulation, it is precisely the intention that you do so without a veil attached to it every time. Then that doesn't make much sense, then you better do it another way. The starting point is that your delegation should leave it to the government to lower regulations, unless there are reasons for doing so differently and for it to go through the Chamber. I believe that the provisions on congestion, on network security and on judicial orders as set out in the regulation are clear. That Regulation shall have direct effect. This means that it is regulated by those clear provisions and by that direct effect. I do not expect that it will be necessary to develop this further with an AMvB. I shall come back to that later in my speech. If it is necessary, it is an effect which is not such that, in my opinion, there should also be a departure from the main rule, namely that you leave this kind of low regulation to the government. That is why I believe that a veil should not be considered and should not be incorporated into the law. Mrs Oosenbrug also mentioned the fact that the provisions of the original Telecom Act in the Netherlands focused on both the provider of Internet access services and the provider of a network. You can offer a net and you can offer an Internet access service. In the Netherlands, provisions of the law focused on both. Now, in the Regulation, the provisions are only aimed at the Internet access service. Mrs Oosenbrug is right to say this, but in practice the provider of a network and the provider of an Internet access service are the same party. It's not like one person does one thing and the other one does another. You have access to a network and then you also offer an Internet access service. If there are different parties, the provider of the Internet access service should ensure that the service is net-neutral. The regulation makes no mistake about that, especially not with the supplement we leave in the law on price discrimination. It has to be net-neutral. This means that as an Internet access service provider you may not use a network that is not neutral. A network provider that does not treat its own network neutrally and therefore cannot offer its network to Internet service providers will not receive any customers for that network. So he won't, because then he won't have the opportunity to share the costs for the network among a lot of users. For those who have a net at their disposal, it is attractive to be net neutral. Apart from acting in accordance with the law, it is also the only way to get providers of internet services as a customer. For Internet service providers, they should not use networks of providers that do not act in this way at all. I think that's how we nailed the whole thing down. It is important that the subscriber, the consumer, does not notice that at all. This has only to do with the service provider. This is to ensure that he offers the case net-neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u11	I used the net neutrality as a hook to look a step further. Indeed, we already have this separation between Internet access and internal services, but we come to many places where access is not very evenly distributed. In the meantime, everyone, including in this Chamber, has the fact that Internet access is almost a utility, as I heard my colleague from the VVD say. I think it's already a utility function. That is why I propose to do research: see if this is possible in the Netherlands, so that we can ultimately offer internet access throughout the Netherlands, also in the framework of a digital government in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u12	I come to that universal service, it should be a utility that Mrs Oosenbrug is talking about in a moment. The point is that the regulation has chosen to apply the provisions that we originally had to both the provider of a network and the provider of an Internet access service only to the Internet access service. The reasoning I have just put forward meant that this is indeed something other than what we had. But in practice, it's just as effective. It will not pose a problem and the consumer will not notice it. Now I come to the second point that Mrs Oosenbrug also raised in her speech. She says it's supposed to be a utility. If Mrs Oosenbrug wants that translated, you should have a universal service. Then you have to establish with a universal service provision that a company ensures that everyone in the Netherlands has Internet access. The burden of this will in principle have to be borne by the company itself. A universal service directive applies. That universal service directive of the European Union means that there must be limited, functional Internet access. It's in the Netherlands for everyone. A broadband internet is not covered by the Universal Service Directive. I do not think it is right to impose on a company now that it should do so for everyone. The majority of Dutch people are connected to broadband and market forces are in full swing as far as the others are concerned. There are many initiatives in this area. It is not good to disrupt this market and to decide that a company is to be imposed on a universal service. That doesn't work in that market. That'll work against our intent. I think that the Netherlands of all countries in the world is the furthest with broadband internet for as many users as possible. There is no country that has it at the same level as we do, both in terms of choice for many and in terms of speed and quality. For that last piece that the market is currently working on, we should not make any additional arrangements in addition to what is contained in the Universal Services Directive. Furthermore, the European Commission is still looking at what we are currently demanding for everyone under the Universal Services Directive to have limited functional Internet access. Is that still adequate or should we as a whole come to a different conclusion? We can also wait and see what results the European Commission will have on this matter and what consequences this might have for the Netherlands. In advance, I would not like to work towards universal service utilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u13	Finally, Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u14	What is annoying is that we are indeed very ahead in the Netherlands. That was part of my speech. Almost everyone in the Netherlands is allowed to participate. However, there are 900,000 households that cannot or cannot participate. They include companies and start-ups. The Minister says: we lay it down with the companies. I think that's right. After all, these companies make a huge amount of money in the densely populated areas. They will have to invest money in sparsely populated areas. I'm not asking for an investment. I'm asking for an investigation. Is it possible that an investigation is being conducted? Does the Minister really want to wait for Europe or is the Netherlands taking up his innovative lead role and are we going to investigate for ourselves what you can offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u15	These people are already being offered a lot. There are initiatives in several areas in the country. You have the ability to get broadband internet mobile. That is partly the problem that, when used in a particular place, the speed goes down in certain circumstances. Another possibility is now being created, i.e. a combination of mobile and fixed, which means that you still have enough broadband at your permanent disposal. By different companies, fiber optic cable is built, also in the outside area. Plans are being made to combine these different possibilities. I believe that market forces are in full swing. There's important progress in this. Provinces are very supportive. I don't think it's necessary at this point to raise the expectation that we're going to do something extra. That is why I am not in favour of doing that research now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u16	I can only support the Minister. I would almost say that perhaps he could transform Mrs Oosenbrug's request and draw up a list of the initiatives that are all there. Also in the province of Flevoland, an initiative is currently under way to see how to pool the demand and, if necessary, how to attract ready-made offers from the market. A lot's been going on. That actually supports the Minister's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u17	Yes. Mr Bosma mentions Flevoland, but he could have said the same about Friesland, Brabant, Overijssel, Groningen or Gelderland. Initiatives are taking place in all kinds of places and you can see that this real need is being met from different sides by different companies with different techniques. If it becomes a utility function or a universal service, then one company will be charged with it and so you are going to disrupt that market, whereas that market does not, in my opinion, deserve it at the moment. That's why I don't like doing that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mrs Oosenbrug, you would like to correct something briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u19	Yes, because my colleague from the VVD speaks to me on a list that needs to be handed over or investigations that need to be done. We did not start this topic today. I find that very presumptuous, let me put it this way. I've been working on this subject for three years and I've come all over the country. When the minister says: we have a solution through 5G, that means you're setting up a start-up company with 5 gigabytes of data that sounds like an incredibly large amount of............................................................................................................................................. That's not a solution. It's a sham solution. He's just about saying: make a list of everything that's going well, but I'm not standing here for all the people where it's going well. I'm standing here in front of the 900,000 households where things aren't going well yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u20	I was not under the impression that Mr Bosma said that Mrs Oosenbrug should make a list. He said I should indicate what's going on at this point. I do not think that is a bad question from Mr Bosma. I would be happy to provide the Chamber with sufficient information. I have also often spoken with the Chamber about the importance we attach to the Internet for as many Dutch people as possible. I am not taking over the figure of 900,000 households mentioned by Mrs Oosenbrug immediately, but I know that there are still wishes on this point, that there is movement and that it is a good thing that there is progress in it. I do not believe that we are making a positive contribution to this at the moment either with a utility or with a universal service. That's why I'm reacting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u21	Together with Mrs Oosenbrug, the CDA has always supported this fast internet, including for rural areas. We're about to have a general meeting with the Minister. This will take place on May 24th. Perhaps the Minister could send an update to the Chamber on how things are going with all these initiatives. We hear some mixed stories about that. We very much want to be able to speed it up where it can be accelerated. Hence this request to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u22	I will see how I can meet the information needs of the Chamber in preparation for the general consultation which Mrs Mulder points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u23	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mrs Oosenbrug also talked about the enforcement that will take place if someone concludes a contract with an Internet access provider and then the story of the provider that a certain speed would be offered, turns out not to be true afterwards. She says that you should actually enable the consumer who has suffered from this to be able to defend it in a practical way. I believe this is going to happen with this regulation. If an individual suffers from the advertising of the Internet access service, I'll just mention something called a speed of 100 and it turns out to be a speed of 50, then ACM can establish that the information provided by the Internet access service provider to consumers is incorrect information. Then ACM has the opportunity to take administrative action against it. ACM may impose fines and periodic penalty payments, and may provide binding instructions. I think this is very effective for consumers. However, it is conceivable that a consumer should say: it is all fine, but I want to stand up to it myself; someone is offering me something, I am going to go into it and then I think that delivery is necessary. I can understand that. Then it's hard if, like I just said, you have to prove that the internet speed offered to you doesn't match what you got. It is therefore very good that a system has been set up with a certified access mechanism. The ACM certify it and ensures that in a simple way it can be made clear that something that should have been delivered has not been delivered. On that basis, anyone who wishes to speak up against this can do the same. As is the case with contracts, they are bound to give the other the opportunity to make up for their failure. If he does not, then the person who has signed a contract can then say: sorry, but then I dissolve this contract and I feel no longer bound by it. He then goes to another person who does keep his promises and concludes a contract with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u25	That sounds like a lot of improvement. Suppose, however, that a consumer may have too slow internet connection for a year, can he get some of his money back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u26	Of course, you're not supposed to be running things like this for too long. I think this is everyone's own responsibility. The point is that the ACM ensures that information on internet speeds is included in contracts. If that does not happen, the ACM will then have the opportunity to act against it. That possibility can also be used by the ACM. Anyone who really wants it to end up with the termination of the contract must stand up for it. Therefore, you need an acceptable position on the ground. It's created by the mechanism I just mentioned. The combination of the ACM that is required to include good information on internet speeds in contracts, the monitoring mechanism and the ability for individuals to act against it is sufficient to ensure that abuses are corrected and prevented in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u27	I support that, too. It is useful if you as a consumer can collect evidence that you can prove that you have not received a number of months for which you have paid. I understand you'll be able to cancel your contract. You can do that a lot now. You say, "I'm quitting and I'm gonna go see someone else." But you haven't gotten what you're entitled to in all these months, and you paid for it. I do not hear the Minister specifically say that he is going to ensure that consumers who have that evidence also get their money back. It can't be that you have to go to court for a couple of tens. It would be nice if that were to become practice as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u28	I'm not gonna do that. This is an agreement between two parties. This is governed by private law. I can't just turn that into something else. I can make sure that it is possible to achieve justice in a practical way. You can do that by ensuring that information about internet speeds is in contracts and that there is a certified monitoring mechanism. On this basis, a contracting party may stand up for its interests. It is not possible to go any further and draw what is now governed by private law into administrative law. If a person considers that he is entitled to compensation for damages under private law, or should be reimbursed retroactively, he will have to claim that under private law and try to do so. A consumer who draws the conclusion at some point that the speed offered to him is not the speed supplied to him can immediately stop paying. He doesn't have to wait for the contract to be canceled. Meanwhile, he can tell the supplier or service provider to put things in order now. If that service provider doesn't, he can see the contract as disbanded. He can then act as I have just described, namely by going to another person. Moreover, in this context, in addition to the legal procedure under private law which I have just mentioned, a dispute settlement committee has been set up for the recovery of money. If a consumer can prove that for a longer period of time there has been a lower rate of delivery than he was entitled to, the Disputes Commission can give a ruling. Access to that commission is free of charge. That way it can be solved. I think that, in addition to what I have just said, an acceptable situation has been created with the Disputes Committee. Mrs Oosenbrug also asked me about a motion on crossing thresholds. I think it refers to the motion which she has tabled and which was intended to allow small entrepreneurs, SMEs, to change contracts in the same easy way as consumers (34271, no. 15).................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm working on it. I'll inform the Chamber about the state of play. That is not necessary in this debate, because it is on another subject. However, Mrs Oosenbrug raised the matter. I will share with the Chamber my findings on this point, on how things are going in practice and on what is possible or not, as soon as possible, so that we can discuss them on a subsequent occasion. Mr Madlener also asked me about the point where I started my reply. I have gone as far as I can in his direction. He said that he did not agree that the European Union, through the European Commission, had been dealt with by means of a regulation. On the contrary, I believe that the establishment of this kind of regulation on telecommunications in the European context is of paramount importance to consumers. Suppose we have 28 different arrangements in Europe with regard to the Internet and media platforms, a policy field that is completely converging, and would not draw a European line. Our consumers are increasingly European-oriented, they are also buying via the Internet in other countries and they also want to reduce services from other countries via the Internet. If we do not regulate this at European level, I believe that we are really failing our consumers and our businesses, who also want to have the opportunity to create sales and supply services and products throughout Europe. On the contrary, I welcome the fact that we are dealing with this at European level. Mr Van Raak defended an amendment tabled by his colleague Mrs Gesthuizen. The point in her amendment is: 'I have already said something about this in my response to Mrs Mulder, that there should be detailed rules at AMvB on specialized services and congestion management. The purpose of the amendment is to transform the power now laid down in the law and also included in the government's proposal in Article 7.4a (2) into an obligation, i.e. an obligation to lay down detailed rules. We're talking about specialized services here. These services are specialised and have access to the Internet, with a direct link between the customer and the customer. They want to be treated in a certain way. Specialised services are in themselves very useful. Sometimes they are services for consumers, who want to run TV over the Internet, for example. Sometimes they are hospitals, who want to communicate with each other and need the highest quality internet to communicate the information in a good way. A specialised service is therefore not something we should take a negative approach to, but should not be at the expense of general Internet access.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u29	That's right. The European Commission always mentions one example: remote operation. That is the only example and is always mentioned. However, in the regulation, a number of definitions of non-internet services, congestion and so on are simply open. These are not well defined and should be further defined. The only thing the amendment asks for is to improve the way the regulation is worked out. That's all we're asking. I can't imagine the Minister being against it. I also ask the Minister whether the amendment is contrary to the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u30	I now go into that amendment in detail. The amendment raises a point which I think deserves a more comprehensive response. I'm going into it extensively now. Then we can see whether Mr Van Raak believes that it is sufficient. Well, I'd like to take a look at that. The principle that specialised services should not be at the expense of general Internet access is enshrined in this Regulation. Firstly, the condition is that the specialised service must be fully optimised for a specific content. So you really need to make sure that you only seize the internet capacity that is really needed for your specialized service. Secondly, that service should only be offered if the Internet capacity, the network capacity, is large enough to allow those services in addition to the general Internet access. This means that general Internet access comes first, and if there is sufficient access for everyone and there is space left over, specialised services come into the picture. Furthermore, specialised services should not be used to replace Internet access services. If you are somewhere and want Internet access, you should not be able to access the Internet only via a specialized service. A specialised service should also not adversely affect the availability or overall quality of all possible Internet access services for end-users. The regulation therefore lays down strict conditions. They even go beyond the regulations we already had in our law. It is now simply said that specialised services are allowed only if there are no negative effects on general Internet access. I think that's a very good, sharp formulation. A more precise definition of what is meant by "specialised services" can, on the contrary, lead to the creation of room to say about services: certain things are now defined, these services do not fall within that definition, so they are allowed. The regulation now states that all specialised services are allowed only if they do not have negative effects. The wording that we have now incorporated into the law is therefore much better for the consumer than the wording contained in the amendment. There are also no uncertainties in terms of access and congestion management. It says that there is only one exception to the ban on blocking or slowing down Internet traffic; this should only be done if there is a risk of congestion. If an Internet administrator sees that congestion is at risk as a result of certain uses, it may take certain technical measures to prevent such congestion. That is also widely formulated, but that is good because that means that this really should only be done if it is necessary to provide everyone with permanent, undisturbed access to the Internet. I think that this general obligation has been put in a good way. The Federation of Supervisors in the 28 Member States of the European Union will continue to examine whether it will provide further guidance on this issue. In view of our experience in the past in which this has not proved to be a problem, I believe that the wording chosen in the regulation is very good. I think, on the basis of past experience and our assessment of the regulation on this point, that we should leave it at that. We should not complicate it with the risk that it will have a counterproductive effect. I do not think that is what the SP group wants either. We also need to be able to wait and see what exactly comes out of the further guidelines of BEREC, the organisation of European supervisors. I do not think it will happen, but if we come to the conclusion that certain detailed rules are desirable, then the proposal I have now submitted to the Chamber will allow us to come up with such detailed rules. I think that's a good time to do that, too. However, it is not good to oblige the government at the moment to come up with these detailed rules. These detailed rules are not necessary and can only lead to problems. I therefore advise against this amendment by Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u31	I think it's kind of thoughtful of the Minister. He's turning it around. He says: we have broad provisions and open definitions, and that is useful because it could cover anything. However, we are dealing here, of course, with very powerful market players. Should I, as a Socialist MP, explain to this liberal minister that distortions of competition are undesirable here? If we create mouse holes in regulation and in the development of this regulation, these market players will, of course, be able to make use of it. There are major interests involved. On the one hand, the Minister says that it is not necessary at all, because he thinks that we can work very well with these broad provisions and open definitions. On the other hand, however, he suggested waiting for proposals from Europe for further definitions. Wouldn't it be better for the Minister to do that himself? I also asked whether this amendment is contrary to this regulation. I don't think it's contrary to that. I think the Minister can do this. If the House of Representatives asks him to do so because she thinks it is safer and better, I think the Minister can simply do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u32	The legislation comes into being here in cooperation between the States-General and the government. That's why we're talking about this together, and we're trying to convince each other. I am available to exchange arguments with Mr Van Raak, to listen to him and to let him convince me. I hope he'll let me do the same. The government doesn't create a mouse hole. If we say that specialized services are allowed only if they do not have a negative effect on general access to the Internet, then that is a final, comprehensive provision. Mr Van Raak is now saying that you should actually record exactly what those specialised services are. If you do that, specialist service providers can say: that is all determined, we do not comply, so we see a mouse hole for ourselves. You'll create that possibility. Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Raak then unintentionally create such a mouse hole. Specialised services should not be at the expense of general Internet access, but because we do not exactly comply with the provisions of Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Raak, this does not apply to us and we should nevertheless offer our services. So Mrs Gesthuizen and Mr Van Raak unconsciously create a mouse hole. That's what I wouldn't want. Next, a comment on BEREC. The European Commission, as well as me, is convinced that it is regulated in the best possible way through the regulation. If there are new regulations in the field of telecommunications, the European telecom regulators will meet to discuss them. Something could come out of that. I'm gonna have to wait and see if anything comes out of it. The regulators don't come up with that until the summer. It is planned that the regulation will enter into force by the end of April. So I have to wait and see if something is coming and, if so, what is coming and what we think of it. It may well be that I do not foresee that, but it might be that in one or more points more detailed rules are required. On the basis of this legislative proposal, we can then come forward with a General Measure of Governance which lays down detailed rules. However, if we introduce into the law the obligation to lay down detailed rules in advance, we are going to deteriorate what is now being properly regulated in the law. We will then create a mouse hole, which is not in the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u33	When we ask for a more detailed definition, we do not ask for a list of companies and products. We ask for a more precise definition. I do not think that the Minister's argument that open definitions and wider provisions are better and will lead to less abuse is very convincing, especially since the Minister is right to point out that others, namely the supervisors in Europe, may come up with more details. I believe that the Minister's responsibility lies with him, and we believe that it should lie with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u34	I am sorry that I have not been able to convince Mr Van Raak. The regulation lays down four specific conditions for the European Commission. These four conditions, together, ensure that specialised services are allowed only if they do not have negative effects on general Internet access. I note, then, that we have handled this well. If the European Commission believes that this is well-organised and if the government agrees that it is, then it could have meaning for the Chamber. I'd like to leave that assessment to the Chamber. When there are changes in telecommunications, Europe's regulators always come together to assess how this is regulated and how it will work out in practice. They will, if necessary, comment on this. Let's just wait and see if they come. I think there is nothing to improve on this point, but if the cooperating European supervisors have a different view on this, I do not foresee that we will look at it. We will then consider whether this should lead to an overall measure of governance. However, if that is not necessary, let us not do it. I have two reasons for that. First of all, it is not good if there are too many rules. We want fewer rules. Secondly, we should not take care of something that is already well arranged. These are my considerations in order to discourage Mrs van Gesthuizen's amendment, defended by Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u36	That is what I wanted to bring forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u37	I had the impression you'd finished your speech. I see Mrs Mulder at the interrupting microphone, but there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u38	I think I can avoid that with a very short question. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. All my questions have been answered extensively. Mrs Oosenbrug referred to a motion that she tabled together with Bart de Love and me. The Minister made a promise that a letter would be sent to the Chamber. It would be so nice if we could get that letter before the AO of 24 May. Can the Minister promise me that? Is there any other way he could tell me when that letter will come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u39	I think that is a reasonable request from Mrs Mulder. I will do my best to comply with her request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u41	I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u42	It's all clear. I thank the Minister. I'm gonna give up my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u43	I do need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u44	Then you're the only one, Mrs. Oosenbrug. I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. I can push two motions very quickly, but I can also give some context, and I will. Downloading is extremely important when using various services, but if you as a farm have to upload your files to your cooperative, if you as a student have to upload your schoolwork to a central server or if you as a company have to forward your VAT to the Tax Office and can only do that at night or from a location outside of business, school or home, we should still have a way to go. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Telecommunications Act distinguishes between communications networks and communications services, including Internet access services;]] [[considers that communication networks and Internet access services should be a useful function, in the form of a universal service to be provided by the owner of the network;]] [[Considering that many broadband projects in the country are not well established due to various barriers and bottlenecks in the construction of the physical infrastructure suitable for broadband applications in both public authorities and industry;]] [[calls on the Government, more clearly in the law and the AMvB, to make a distinction between communication networks and Internet access services on the one hand and other communication services on the other;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Telecommunications Act and the associated AMvB can better define such access as a utility function, at least including broadband access as a utility function, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34379-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u46	Then I have another motion. I noticed that there has been a lot of noise in terms of definitions, not only in this law but in general. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that different definitions are used in the legislative proposal and in policy notes for all types of services;]] [[considers that there should be clarity with regard to communication services, internet access services, specialised services, separate services and content services;]] [[Considers that it is desirable, at national level, to align as far as possible with the relevant definitions at national and EU level and with BEREC's Directives on net neutrality with regard to supplementary regulation in legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate this and to establish clear definitions for these services in the law and the AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34379-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u47	As for the questions I asked about the motion-De Love c.s.: that was in 2014. The Minister is about his own answers and the Chamber is about her own questions. I want an answer to this as soon as possible. This is about a 2014 motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you. I'm just gonna check on the Minister to see if he can answer directly. He's requesting a two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u49	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Oosenbrug's final point. She said I should have come forward earlier with a response to the motion of her, Mr De Love and Mrs Mulder, adopted by the Chamber. Obviously, it's my job to carry out that motion. I'm working on it with the best of intentions. I have to answer to the Chamber about the state of affairs, what I have achieved and what I have not achieved so far. I will try to do so for the general discussion, as Mrs Mulder asked. I believe that this is sufficiently quick to allow the Chamber to make an assessment of its outcome. I can't take it back. I did my best to carry out the motion. I must now make it clear to the Chamber what the situation is and I will do so. In the motion in part No. Mrs Oosenbrug said that broadband access should become a utility. The government is being asked to investigate this. The operative part ends with the phrase "where access to broadband must in any case belong to the utility function and inform the Court thereof'. I just indicated why I don't think it's right to do that. At the moment, it would not be good to pursue this as a final outcome, given the shared importance of what is and is not in the outside world, what should be done, and the developments that are taking place in order to achieve it. I think you're disrupting market forces and that it doesn't lead to a good outcome if you can get what we can do with market forces in our country, going through broadband through a universal service into a utility function. I therefore do not think it would be useful to carry out an investigation into this. I therefore advise against Mrs Oosenbrug's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u50	You may give a brief response to this, Mrs Oosenbrug, but it is not intended to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u51	I do not want to discuss this, but I would like to ask a question for clarification. When we talk about access, we're talking about two providers right now. There are two administrators of our network right now: one is about the cable; the other is about the buyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u52	There are also parties that offer a fibre network separately. There are also parties offering broadband via mobile connections. The problem with this is that broadband is there, but sometimes speed falls back at times when it is widely used. To provide for this, a combination is made of fixed and mobile. Two points are then made of a mobile connection that other connections that do not share do not affect. So there are several possibilities: fixed, fixed-mobile and mobile. In these developments, the process of market forces is now under way. I think this is very promising, also because of the support given from the Empire, but certainly also from provinces and sometimes also from municipalities. I do not think we should cross this by making this a useful function in the form of a universal service. So I do not think that an investigation into it makes any sense either. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 10 Ms Oosenbrug asked the government to investigate clear definitions. It refers to communication services, Internet access services, specialised services, separate services and content services. The Telecom Act contains a clear definition of the term "communication service." The Regulation provides a clear definition of the term "Internet Access Service." Specialised services are deliberately not defined. As I have just said to Mr Van Raak, I think you will cause a problem if you do so. That is why I did not recommend Mrs Gesthuizen's amendment. The term "empty services" appears in a policy rule that is repealed with this legislative amendment. That term is therefore irrelevant. The term "content services' is also not relevant in relation to this Regulation. In my view, therefore, there is no ambiguity and I do not want to investigate something which I do not think is unclear. I therefore also advise against this motion by Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-12.u53	On Tuesday 17 May there will be a vote on the legislative proposal, on one amendment and on two motions for resolutions.
