ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my deep appreciation for Mrs Dijkstra. She is committed to ensuring that we get more donors in our country. It has taken a huge amount of trouble to take a step in this direction with an initiative law for another donor registration system. I really appreciate that. The debate on organ donation is a very emotional debate. It is literally about life and death: the death of the one who is a donor, the life of the one who receives the donated organ, or the possible death if the reception of an organ remains too long. It is therefore understandable that the debate on organ donation is accompanied by a lot of emotion. Emotions are high among all involved, especially those who are anxiously waiting for an organ, for example the people I spoke to in Groningen at the dialysis centre. They told us about the enormous impact it has on the quality of your life when you have to dialysis for hours several times a week. The emotion is also great with the doctors and nurses in the intensive care departments. They must have extremely difficult family interviews, especially when the person who is about to die or has just died has not made known his or her choice of organ donation. At this very emotional moment, one of the most difficult decisions must be submitted to the next of kin: can the organs of the deceased be used for donation? It is therefore understandable that many people are committed to more people choosing to be organ donors and that they also make that choice explicit. At least that is what the VVD is committed to, because organ donors save lives; there can be no misunderstanding about that. It is therefore that the VVD presented an initiative paper two years ago to increase the number of donors and the number of donor bodies available. The applicant took the initiative for the legislative proposal before us today. In her view, this should ensure that more people with a "yes" are registered in the Donor Register and thereby more donor bodies are available. The legislative proposal seems to be in line with the registration system in a number of other European countries, such as Belgium, Spain, Italy and Sweden. Yet that is not the case. It is a unique bill, which leads to a unique donor registration system if it is adopted. It is unique because every Dutchman aged 18 and over who has not registered with a choice in the donor registration system will receive a letter requesting that his or her choice be recorded. Anyone who doesn't respond to the letter will receive a copy of the letter after six weeks. Anyone who does not respond to this will be registered by the government with a "yes" in the donor registration system. I will pass the petitioner's bill by two measuring laths, an ethical-principal and a substantive one. At the end of my speech, I will reach a verdict on the basis of both considerations. Along the ethical-principal measuring bar, the VVD is particularly concerned with the extent to which the applicant's proposal complies with the right of self-determination so highly appreciated by liberals; it will not surprise anyone. That right of self-determination is particularly important in matters relating to yourself. No one but yourself can decide and control your body and therefore also your organs. It's a tough liberal core value. Among the supporters of the applicant's legislative proposal are many members and supporters of the VVD. One of the main reasons why they are in favour is that the current donor registration system leads to family members being persuaded to become the deceased donor, while the will of the next of kin has not been established. People may become organ donors against their wishes. We train doctors and nurses to make this happen. They consider this approach, although understandable from the societal point of view of donor bodies, to be contrary to the right of self-determination. The fact that the proposal of the applicant calls people much more explicitly for a choice would make the proposal more consistent with the right of self-determination. Let us be clear: the current method of organ donation is indeed not fully in line with the right of self-determination. Criticism about the fact that people can become donors even now, against their will, after approval by a next of kin, is justified. But does that mean that the petitioner's bill does more justice to the right of self-determination? The bill automatically records a yes for organ donation for anyone who does not respond to two government letters. It is very doubtful whether this is the actual wish of the person concerned. In fact, the government decides for you if you don't make an explicit decision. That is a very far-reaching intervention in self-determination, and that is precisely where self-determination is most important: your body.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u2	I object to Mr Rutte's remark that the State would then decide. The State does not decide in this proposal. It's the people who can decide for themselves. On the question of the right of self-determination, I would like to say something with Mr Rutte. He's thinking of the 60% group that isn't registered. In view of the polls, does he find it plausible that out of those two thirds there is a majority in favour of an ADR system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u3	That a majority is in favour, I doubt it. We do know that there is a majority in the Netherlands for organ donation. That's the outcome if your people just ask the man. Too many other studies show that the current system has more support than ADR. Apart from that, among those who do not register, there will also be advocates of organ donation. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u4	There is a majority in the Netherlands for the ADR system. That's what polls and research show. That is what I am assuming, despite Mr Rutte's questioning. Following Mr Rutte's thinking, it would be more in line with what people themselves want, to embrace the new system. Of the 60% non-registered, a majority is actually in favour of organ donation. For whatever reason, these people will not register. Then, on the basis of the right to self-determination, you must draw the conclusion that the ADR system does more justice to what people want, even if they have not been registered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u5	It is very confusing if Mr Van Gerven is to confuse the right of self-determination with the majority who decide. That's something completely different. In the end, I decide my own body. If I don't, I wish my next of kin would. The majorities lie, that's a whole different story. You can't confuse that with this discussion. Mr Van Gerven said it's not the government that records. Yes, it is. If you don't respond twice, the government records a yes for you. She decides you obviously wanted something. That's why I'm saying the government finally decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u6	Let me be very specific. So the government doesn't register, because at any time someone can say: I'm registered with a yes, but I don't want that. Anyone can make that change. The right to self-determination and the right to self-determination therefore remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u7	It is clear that I, as a liberal, think differently from Mr Van Gerven. In consumer law, it has been established years ago that an opt-out is considered undesirable and unlawful. We rightly do not accept that companies impose a choice on you, unless you explicitly state that you do not want it. Why do things, insurance and subscriptions have stricter rules than when it comes to our own bodies? That seems very strange to me. Can the performer respond to that? Not only in physical matters, we do not accept that a choice is made for you if you do not choose. How about the election, for example? The social importance of voting is great. If you don't choose, you have no influence on the outcome and therefore no influence on the policy that is going to be pursued, while that does affect you. It is therefore rather important that people do vote. That is why there are public campaigns around elections and the parties are also committed to getting people to vote. In a referendum as we shall soon have it, other interest groups are also committed. But would we find it acceptable if people who are not going to vote were automatically given a choice, which was said to be: your vote goes to the largest party? That was the VVD during the previous elections, but I had been uncomfortable with that. You can easily set up the reasoning that people had an opinion, but were too lax to let them know at the polling station. By analogy with the present bill, your vote will automatically go to another party. Or in the event of a referendum, "yes" will be entered on your behalf. I assume everyone would find that unacceptable. Then why would that be acceptable when it comes to your own body? Let's bring it even closer. Many of us have not recorded or discussed anywhere what should happen to them after their death, buried, cremated or made available to science. We find it normal in cases where the choice is not made, that the next of kin choose. Imagine that this was not the case and that, if someone has not explicitly documented what he wants after his death, the body was automatically made available to science because of the need to have bodies for medical science education and for research. After all, everyone benefits from well-educated doctors and breakthroughs achieved through medical scientific research. You could see it as some kind of public facility. But for the sake of the importance of making a public provision available to science, someone automatically, because of the lack of registration of the will of the deceased, wouldn't we find that acceptable? Why then, when choosing organ donation, would that suddenly be acceptable? Why, then, should this violation of the right to self-determination be justified? I would like to hear the applicant's explanation on this point. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant makes it clear that she sees the choice of organ donation as a choice in the context of solidarity. She writes: "The database of donor bodies is a facility that everyone can and may claim at the time of need" and "to maintain this provision, however, requires donors." As far as the VVD is concerned, consideration of organ donation, however important the importance of registration and donation, should not be assessed in a frame of solidarity. It is a question of self-determination. My organs do not belong to the State, so that it can then redistribute them. That is what we do with taxes, but not with my organs, because they belong to me. I can choose to be a donor. I can also choose not to. And I can also choose not to make a choice. I have such choices as a human being and as a liberal myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u8	I was gonna say Rutte's doing it again! We had Bolkestein at the time and it was known of him that he blew high off the tower and shouted all kinds of things, but eventually withdrew his cue again. I had judged Rutte higher in judgment. That he dares to say here with dry eyes that with this proposal the State decides on your organs!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u9	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u10	The question is whether he wants to take that comment back or prove it otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u11	Then we'll end up in the same discussion as we did. I have just said that it is not acceptable to me that, at the moment when I do not make a choice, a choice is made on my behalf, namely the choice of 'yes, I become a donor', no matter how important I consider donors to be. Fill in that choice, the government can't do that on my behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u13	The choice is always up to the person. If you haven't responded within three months and you're registered as "yes," you can change your choice of a "yes" to a "no" every day of the life you have left, if you think that's better, if you're convinced you have to. So I repeat my question. You have 9 million people who aren't registered. It is estimated that two thirds, 6 million, are in favour of organ donation. They haven't registered for some reason, but they're in favour of it. Then surely, following the idea of the VVD that what people themselves want to follow should be followed, should a majority vote for the ADR system, because then more justice is done to what people themselves want? It cannot be maintained that people who have not been registered do not want to donate, because the majority of society is in favour of this solidarity act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u14	This question has already been asked, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'd love to answer that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u16	Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u17	It's gonna be a very confusing story. The question is not whether the people who register are people who would like to be a donor. The question is whether you can oblige them to register and otherwise, if they do not, they can be registered on behalf of the government with a yes. The second is very worrying, I think, and I think my party and I think my group is concerned. This group undoubtedly includes people who do not want to be a donor. If they are in there, they cannot be registered with a "yes, I become a donor" so that a threshold is lowered and then they become a donor. That is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u18	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u19	As a liberal, self-determination is the highest good for me. I make my own choices and have autonomy over my own body. If I don't make a choice on matters that matter after my death, such as whether I want to be buried or cremated, my next of kin can make that choice for me. That choice is very explicit not reserved for the State. I have no duty to record my choices for my death, but the right. The public authorities cannot enter into that law, not even for the sake of the public interest. If we allow that, we'll open a door to a government intervention that extends far beyond just the organ donation file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u20	I would nevertheless like to go through that concept of self-determination in the current system with Mr Rutte. In the present system, it is not self-determination, but in the final analysis it is the survivors and therefore only the survivors who are present or reachable at that time. Does Mr Rutte now consider that to be true self-determination on the basis of his fundamental values?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u21	I've already gone into it. That is not ideal either, so that is not 100% self-determination. However, it is more than when, on my behalf, a choice, which is not at all my choice, is laid down as if it were my own choice, that my choice is prescribed and laid down by the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u22	Finally, Mr Pechtholt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u23	Isn't it a choice not to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have just made it very clear that self-determination also includes the right not to choose, not to react. The VVD considers it essential that if I don't respond and I don't choose, just like when it comes to whether I want to be buried or cremated, my next of kin may decide. They're a little closer to me than the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u25	That is one of the four possibilities you can choose, self-consciously, with self-determination: yes, no, relatives or a specified person. That's the ultimate form. It is still not the most ideal system, but it is better than the present one in which the relatives are ultimately confronted with it at an emotional time when, according to all the studies, perhaps other considerations are made than when they are made in peace. The choices can also be adjusted at all times of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u26	My criticism does not focus at all on the categories in which you can register. Those guys are good. They're good. That's what you should do. I'm in favour of that. The problem is that there will be an obligation for people to register. Mr Pechtold does not call it an obligation. He might call it light pressure. The consequence, however, is that if I do not register on my behalf. That is really very contrary to the right of self-determination. My last sentence was that if we allow that we open a door to a government intervention that extends far beyond just the organ donation file. That is my principled liberal ethical assessment. On what basis does the applicant think that her bill can pass the liberal-ethical test? On what ethical grounds does she find it acceptable that the government should be allowed, on my behalf, to enter a choice of organ donation in the register, if I did not make it myself? On what liberal basis does she consider that to be justified? After the ethical measuring bar follows the substantive measuring bar. After all, there are many people, especially among the VVD's supporters, who consider the importance of organ donation to be so high that they are willing to step over the ethical objections I just outlined if the change in the registration system leads to more donors. The importance of more donors is considered even more important than self-determination because there are still waiting lists for donor organs and people are still dying while they are on those waiting lists. By the way, the waiting lists are getting shorter. The last numbers show a shrinkage of 8% but are still too long. It is therefore very important to look at the effectiveness of the measures proposed today. The bill before us today is unique in Europe and probably unique in the world. Although explicit supporters of the Active Donor Registration System proposed by the applicant indicate that the methodology is aligned with many other European countries, this is not the case. Take what is often referred to as Belgium. This country has the so-called no-objection system. Like the Dutch, Belgians can register explicitly as donors or register explicitly that they do not want to be donors. If someone dies, is eligible as a donor and has not registered with a yes or a no, in Belgium the premise is that someone is a donor, unless survivors object. Survivors are therefore presented, as in the Netherlands, that the deceased did not have a choice to register, but they are not told, as in the Netherlands, that the choice is theirs. They're told to object if they want the deceased not to be a donor. Apart from the question of whether this small difference in working methods between Belgium and the Netherlands can explain the significant difference in numbers of donors between the two countries, it is essential that the Active Donor Registration System proposed by the applicant has a completely different effect. Where in Belgium explicitly no and yes are registered, the applicant's legislative proposal in the Netherlands would lead to the explicit registration of no and a mixture of explicit and implicit yes. Instead of clarifying the choice of the deceased, there is a risk that the next of kin will be faced with less clarity. This can be very problematic in practice. We know that with an explicit yes registration relatives in about 95% of the cases agree to the donation. If registration is missing, only 30% of the next of kin agree to donation. It is very doubtful whether the percentage of consents remains high if it is no longer clear whether the explicit wish of the deceased has been established. In 2014, the research firm Panteia conducted an extensive and thorough investigation into this matter at the request of the VWS Ministry. The outcome was significant. The actual percentage of survivors who will agree to organ donation does not or hardly differ between the current system and the Active Donor Registration System. It is also hardly different from a possible mandatory choice system. Insofar as there are differences, they are in favour of the current system. This is explained by the fact that in the ADR system it is no longer certain that someone has actually said yes. There are more registrations, but they have no explanatory value for the next of kin. The VVD therefore questions the effectiveness of the Active Donor Registration System. The explicit yes of people who consciously choose to be donors is watered down with the implicit yes of those who are supposed to be donors because they have not responded to a letter from the government twice. Panteia research shows that the Active Donor Registration System at best leads to as many donors as the current system, but even less. Moreover, the research shows that the social support for the Active Donor Registration System is significantly less than for the current system. These kinds of findings are in line with the conclusions of previous evaluations of the Organ Donation Act. All in all, there is therefore a legitimate reason to be concerned about the effectiveness of the donor registration system proposed by the applicant. It sounds harsh, but I really mean it: a sensitive subject like organ donation is not suitable for experiments, especially when you realize that after the introduction of the Active Donor Registration System there is no turning back. Once explicit yes registrations are mixed with implicit yes registrations, the benefit of the explicit yes is gone forever; you can't go back. Why, despite the obvious outcome of this study and the evaluations of the former Organ Donation Act, does the applicant still insist on automatically registering a yes if someone does not respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u27	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u28	Well, this block goes on pretty long. Maybe it's time for a question. That's what I'm considering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u29	If you finish your story first, Mrs. Voortman will then have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u30	On the basis of what research and evidence does it conclude that the donor registration system proposed by it will lead to many more organ donations? Isn't the wish, which I understand very well, the father of thought here? Does it confuse an increase in the number of yes registrations due to the automatic yes not with the actual number of expected organ donations? How does she assess the problem of explicit yes registrations with implicit yes registrations? Or, despite Panteia's sturdy report, doesn't she think that's a problem? Does she agree with the VVD that the donor registration system proposed by it could lead to less than more organ donations? Why, insofar as it is desirable to opt for another donor registration system, did it not opt for the non-objection system, which, whatever you think, has proven itself abroad in any case? The VVD also wants to consider the role of the next of kin. These had no role in the initial legislative proposal in the event of an annual registration, but after strong criticism by the Council of State, the applicant modified its proposal on this point. That's good. In the case of an annual registration, the next of kin shall be entitled "to suggest that a consent registration in the donor registry does not correspond to the person concerned's wish or that the person concerned is incompetent'. The applicant calls that a firm position for the next of kin. The VVD can hardly imagine how this will work in practice. Survivors are expected to show that the registration is a mistake. Do they have to come up with evidence to stop donation at this very difficult time or can they, even in countries with a non-objection system, simply object to donation? Does the applicant recognise that the position of the next of kin, which she calls firm, is in any case much less robust than the current situation? Why does it weaken the position of the next of kin in relation to the current situation? It is clear that the VVD has serious doubts about the present legislative proposal. These doubts do not extend to the purpose of the legislative proposal. The VVD is in favour of more people knowingly making a choice about organ donation. Let there be no doubt about that. And the VVD is in favour of increasing the number of organ donations. However, the legislative proposal encounters major fundamental, ethical and substantive objections. Well, then, what is the question that remains. We live in a society where the number of road deaths is decreasing, as is the number of cardiovascular diseases. Also, people die less and less often on the operating table. This is the desired result of successful road safety and public health policies. In practice, it means that, although this may sound strange, we are effectively doing donor prevention. No one can and will break through that. This means that the number of bodies available will remain under pressure in the coming years. Apart from the efforts that are still being made and need to continue to be made to keep the number of yes registrations high, it is particularly important to ensure that the bodies that become available can actually be used. Too often organs are rejected which, if otherwise prepared using the so-called perfusion pump, Mrs Bruins Slot could have been used. That's what's happening right now, especially in lungs and livers. These must be inspected by the transplant doctor before the organ is actually transplanted. In case of doubt, the doctor rejects the organ. After all, a non-functioning liver or non-functioning lungs inevitably lead to the death of the patient. By placing the organs for transplantation at the perfusion pump and providing oxygen and moisture, the organs can come to life if they are good. The lung blows up and can be properly assessed, the liver will produce bile. Thanks to this technique, ten transplants have been successfully performed in Groningen with organs that were initially rejected. Ten people who were low on the waiting list and probably wouldn't have survived, live because of it. Ten donations equal hundreds of thousands of registered donors. The technique exists and works. Now it is important to do medical-scientific studies on this new technique quickly. To be able to do necessary studies with lungs and livers, about a million is needed. My request to the Minister is whether she would like to make that million available, preferably quickly. Then more organs quickly become available and we can save the lives of many extra people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u31	I would like to return to the irreversibility of the proposal. The VVD just indicated that you can't go back once you've entered it. Would Mr Rutte clarify that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yes, I can. In the current consent system, people register actively. If someone registers with a "yes," you're sure someone wanted to. As soon as we move on to the system proposed by Mrs Dijkstra, we will receive a massive amount of automatic ja registrations after the letter rounds. They all fall into the same bin. It doesn't say whether someone has actively registered, but it just says "yes." Once that mixture has taken place, you can't reverse it. Then there's just a big bucket of "yes," or you have to do something really complicated. Then you still have to filter afterwards and remove the automatic ja registrations. I don't think that's possible. Once you take this step, it's irreversible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u33	I have indicated that GroenLinks supports this bill. I hope, of course, that we will decide to proceed if this bill is evaluated after it has been introduced. What if we were to evaluate the ADR system and come to the conclusion that we should stop? Why don't we just write people back up and ask them what they want? I don't see what the problem would be with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u34	Many of these people have not responded to a letter at all. They are automatically registered and will not respond to a new letter. You're gonna get the database, I'm gonna say it as harsh as it is, so never again pure, you're never gonna get clear who really explicitly said "yes." The mixture remains and therefore the uncertainty for the next of kin. That will not be the case if we opt for a Belgian no-objection system. I don't think I'd be there for that, but it would be clear. You still have "yes" or "no" and the rest is automatically raised no objection. There's "yes" quite clearly "yes." This is really a problematic issue in the active donor registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u35	I just wanted to dwell on the issue of effectiveness. Which system is effective? Can Mr Rutte mention a number of countries where the "yes, unless" principle is changed to the "no, unless" principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u36	I will mention two: Sweden and Italy. Spain is one more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u37	You didn't quite understand my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u38	Oh, you mean the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u39	Yes. I mean those countries which have switched from 'yes, unless'........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u40	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u41	Very well, you passed this test. But why is that? Mr Rutte and the VVD should think about that. Isn't that because in the majority of countries that have switched from a "no, unless" system to a "yes, unless" system, there is a tendency towards more organs? It is quite logical that a 'I am a donor, unless' system works better than a system which states: I am not a donor, unless. Doesn't it make sense that the first system is more effective? Does this not appear to be the practice of all those other countries where that system exists? In our country, we have had a system for 20 years that does not solve the problem. We are talking about stabilising the problem, not progressing towards more donors and a shorter waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u42	The winner of the longest interruption of the day is Mr Van Gerven. Welcome to that! The question is clear in itself. There are many factors that determine whether the number of donors is higher or much lower in some countries. Countries such as Italy and Sweden have moved from the Dutch system to the one existing in Belgium. That hasn't led to more donors. Countries such as Belgium and Spain traditionally have a much higher proportion of donors than the Netherlands. In addition, the present legislative proposal sees a fundamentally different system from that of systems abroad. It's really different; it's different from a standard no-objection system. That doesn't make it comparable. All the studies carried out in the Netherlands show that we could change systems and that the outcome in terms of number of donors will ultimately be about the same. If that is the case, you must seriously ask yourself whether there is any point in violence against the good that the current system has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr Van Gerven, we are basically doing the interruptions in two, and you have deviated from that a few times. If you have really not received an answer, I would like to give you the opportunity to ask your question again, but I am afraid we are repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u44	In any case, I would like to make one correction in Mr Rutte's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u45	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u46	He says that there has been a change in the system in Sweden and Italy and that this has had no effect. In these countries too, however, the proportion of donors has risen sharply to a very high level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u47	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u48	To be complete: in Sweden only brain kills are used and no heart kills are used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u49	You too have made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u50	This is independent of whether a change in the system leads to more bodies. That is the question I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u51	I now give the floor to Mrs Wolbert on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr. Chairman. I too would first of all like to express my appreciation for the initiative taken by Mrs Dijkstra to amend the law on organ donation. Medical-ethical issues are always difficult. They require much discussion, consideration and reflection. This certainly applies to a sensitive and complex subject as organ donation. In the Netherlands, and not only in the Netherlands, we are suffering from a chronic shortage of donor organs. Every year, 150 people die on the waiting list. In addition, that has been mentioned many times today, 85 people are dying off the waiting list because they are in such a bad state that transplants no longer make sense. This science, together with the fact that the number of transplants has even decreased in 2015 and the current system is stalled by the fact that some 9 million people do not make a choice, makes my group believe that Mrs Dijkstra's initiative fits in with the sense of urgency that lives within my group and within my party. After all, the about a thousand people who are on the waiting list want to help you yesterday. In December 2009, members of the Labour Party adopted a conference motion calling on the group to support the ADR system. The 2012 Labour Party election programme therefore includes the following: "To promote organ donation, we support a system where, in principle, everyone is a donor unless you have actively objected to it. The government actively approaches everyone to make a choice." This is without prejudice to the fact that many discussions have been held within my party on the question of whether self-determination, the ultimate right of every person to decide on his own body, should not be paramount. The discussion about what weighs the most is difficult and affects many people in their deepest minds. At this point I can say a lot of things about considerations, considerations and motives about the right of self-determination and physical integrity, but let me be brief and clear on this important point. Ultimately, it is compassion with the people who need a transplant to stay alive, who, in addition to all the difficult considerations and fully respectable principles, weighs the most for many within my party. My group is therefore convinced that the arguments for the ADR system proposed by Mrs Dijkstra are correct. 60% of the Dutch are still not registered. Ultimately, in these cases, the family decides, while it is certain that donors are also present in the group of people who are not registered. My group is strengthened in the choice of the ADR system by its constituents. In a recent poll by Maurice de Dog, 71% of PvdA voters indicated they were in favour of the ADR system. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that accompanying policies remain necessary, too, or perhaps in the ADR system. It is true that, in Mrs Dijkstra's proposal, the government asks twice whether it really is intended to remain a donor, but that does not relieve the same government of the important task of constantly pointing out, wherever it is possible and in various ways, with images and sound, with text and film, that they can make an active choice for, but also against, and that they give the family a role. In addition, it is incredibly important in this system that people let their neighbors know what their express desire is. The government cannot actively draw attention to this either. The Labour Party feels that this active approach is being developed too lightly in Mrs Dijkstra's proposal. That is why I have circulated an amendment which incorporates this active public service task into the law as a natural complement to the ADR system. The amendment makes the government responsible, centrally but equally decentrally, for actively carrying out information and public campaigns on the importance of registration, on how people can capture or change their desires, but also to remind people that they mainly communicate with relatives about what they want to see as the last wish. My group has a few more questions. Can Mrs Dijkstra go back to the Panteia study of December 2014, which is still often used as an argument against the ADR system? How much value should we attach to this research in terms of the extent, use and interpretation of the data? There are a lot of negative appreciations of this research and there is a lot of comment and criticism. Are there any studies available that answer the research question better than in the Panteia study? Another question to the initiator is about the master plan. This master plan has resulted in good results through trainings, training courses and the specialised take-out team. Yet I often hear sounds that it can be better here and there. The Labour Party would like to make sure, in the event of such an important change to the ADR system, that hospitals can really perform at the top of their list. My question to the Minister and the initiator is whether there are any differences between hospitals. How is that being investigated? I also want to know from the Minister what hospitals learn from each other. Would an inter-visiting system improve and maintain quality? I also ask the initiator what she would think of an incentive policy that would promote this way of learning from each other, if only to guarantee quality in the future. However, there is still uncertainty about various studies which show that the ADR system would work better, especially on the basis of a comparison with different foreign countries. That was just the case; that is a good example of it. Can Mrs Dijkstra say again what she thinks is the most convincing argument for her approach? Can it support this in a clear way with data from abroad? Which international studies are available and which are also comparable? What are the differences between the Netherlands on the one hand and Belgium, Austria, Spain and France on the other, and those countries which have made a different choice on the other? For example, in Wales, what considerations were the key to opting for the ADR system? Can we learn from the way the government has communicated with the inhabitants there? There is also the question of how Mrs Dijkstra, in her proposal, overcomes the problem of a group of people in the Netherlands who are difficult to reach or who are characterized as willless; that has already been reviewed a number of times today. Would she like to explain again exactly how this question of willlessness is resolved? That was also a question for the members of my group. That question really matters. Finally, I would like to ask what innovative possibilities exist, other than those of the UMCG, to which reference has just been made. What other innovative opportunities do we have and what is needed to further focus on technical innovations, so as to maximise the potential in the future? The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports by a large majority this initiative by Mrs Dijkstra to bring about active donor registration in the Netherlands. My group believes that, in addition to the ADR system in order to achieve more post-mortal donations, a very active information and communication policy is also necessary as inseparable public policies. I have tabled an amendment to that effect and I would like to know what the initiativer's reaction to it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u53	I understand that the Labour Party is in favour of this bill. Now I always know the Labour Party as a logical partner of the Christian Union in protecting vulnerable people. As part of this proposal for an initiative, these are, of course, people who expect an organ, but certainly also those who do not have the will to do so. To be honest, I thought the Labour Party was shooting very quickly on this subject. Mrs Wolbert pointed out that it was also an important point for her group, but the only thing I saw in Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal from the D66 Group is that legal representatives are called upon to represent the position of willless people. That's all. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists think that this measure is sufficiently protected for those who are unwilling or unable to read or write, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u54	I suggest first that I do not want to rank the group of unqualified among the people who cannot read and write. You call those groups in one breath. I find that really incomprehensible. If people can't read and write or if they don't own the language, we in the Netherlands have all kinds of ways to communicate. I have put so much emphasis on this for a reason. I don't think we can be creative enough in that. I have asked Mrs Dijkstra to deal specifically with the issue of willlessness. For example, Mrs Bruins Slot's question as to why this group is not using the same measure or line as, for example, in medicine experiments, I consider relevant. That is precisely why this question was raised in my group. I think it is important to get that question answered properly. If the answer is insufficient, we may be able to amend it on that point. I invite you to do so, but that is no reason for the Labour Party to reject the whole ADR system. For us, as I said, the principle of solidarity is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mrs Wolbert is right to say that there are actually incompetents in addition to those who are willing to do so. I too think it is important to distinguish between these groups, because they are asking for different approaches. So let's actually zoom in on the position of will incompetent. Not everyone who is willless has a legal representative, as is evident from the documents of the Council of State. The Council of State is also critical of this point. Mrs Wolbert brings that question to the D66 group, waits for the answer and then, if necessary, comes up with an amendment. It's nice to hear that, but I'm very curious about the view of the Labour Party: how are we going to protect these people? How are we going to ensure that people who cannot properly assess their own situation are registered as donors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u56	I think it is important for protection to take place. I also think it is important for Mrs Dijkstra to give a comprehensive answer to this and to clarify this. If I do not think that is enough, I will go back to my group and think about how I can secure it with an amendment, and I invite you to do the same. After all, I share with you the commitment that this group is worthy of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u57	Madam President. It is an emotional and sensitive subject for people who have to make a choice, for relatives who actually get organ donation if a loved one has died and for people who are waiting for an organ. That is why there are no easy answers to be given in this debate. The SGP understands the need of people waiting for a donor organ. It would happen to you or someone you love a lot, but you're waiting for an organ that doesn't come. Therefore, the SGP is very willing and motivated to rethink the question of how to motivate people to make a choice. I very much appreciate Mrs Dijkstra's commitment as the initiator of this bill. It is always quite a job to submit and defend a bill in the Chamber. However we judge it, in the end this commitment is worthy of sincere appreciation and a compliment. I think that the fact that we are talking about this issue and that a legislative proposal is being tabled will have the effect of making a lot of people think about it for the first time or again. At least I did it with my 12-year-old daughter. We talked about it this morning when she asked what it was going to be about in the Chamber today; how do you look at it? I noticed that also to the groups in the building. That effect is very good. It's very good that you think about it and talk about it. It is not only the question of how the government and public authorities deal with organ donation, but it affects society as a whole. It is also an encouragement to question each other and think about it. Maybe not just about this part, but also about dying and everything that comes with it. We should not push that all away, but we should think about it and talk about it with each other. For the SGP Group, it is incredibly important that donation remains genuine donation. Donation comes from the word donare: donating or giving. We see it as an act of personal charity, as something that really takes place in the private domain of citizens and as a conscientious, personal choice that people themselves make. We believe that the government should refrain from imposing or enforcing a choice for or against organ donation. The government certainly shouldn't assume any choices without it being clear whether someone really wants to be an organ donor. We believe that very important and personal issues of this kind should be based on the reality, on one's explicit consent, and not on legal fiction. No matter how beautiful you put it, if you don't let us hear from you, if you've been asked several times for it, then you agree and then the government, the State, decides that you're a donor in principle, we think it's basically a bridge too far to go from this fiction. I think it is a matter of honesty to put forward this principled consideration. You have to separate it from other objections and arguments, which can lead to the legislative proposal getting better or what you want to talk about again. However, all this does not help us to get a different view on this matter of principle. That is why I said as an introduction that I wanted to make this very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u58	The position of the SGP is consistent and the argument so far. I'm having some trouble with the wording that the government or the state is going to decide that you're a donor. I don't think that's properly reflected. It's gonna be very precise. Isn't it true that the government, or the State, registers that you're a donor, but doesn't decide that you're a donor because you can change the registration at any time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u59	It is not impossible; Mr Van Gerven is right to do so. It is true that you must act actively to regain your right to self-determination. If you don't choose yourself, the State decides you're a donor in principle, unless you can change it yourself or in exceptional circumstances, next of kin say they don't want it. That's what happens to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u60	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u61	Then it is clearly marked that the State is indeed registering that you are a donor, but that you yourself have the opportunity to change that and that this presupposes an active attitude. But isn't the fact that you have to be active on this very important theme a point of profit from the new system? That forces people to think extra when they are registered as donors: do I want to be donors? Wouldn't that lead to what we all want, namely more donors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u62	That's actually two questions. Is it a point of profit if there's more thought about it? I do not think that you should support a far-reaching amendment of the law because it can have a nice effect that people at least think about it better. Then I think you should come up with less drastic measures. I would also like to contribute to that. For example, if you come to a doctor or a hospital, that question is not always addressed, or even more so: only in exceptional circumstances. I would find it more logical if this were to be discussed as a matter of fact when I visit my GP: have you thought about being a donor by the way and are there any questions I can answer? That makes more sense than getting a flyer if I go get my driver's license. So I see opportunities that are not yet being used in practice. There can be more, but a change of law remains, in principle, a bridge too far for me, because it is based on a legal fiction: you are supposed to have given permission and the government fills that out. And whether all this thinking leads to more organs being made available? Others have asked questions about this, and I will. It may also be that people are even more active in registering "no" when they feel compelled to make a choice. When I talk to people who didn't make that choice, I also notice that sometimes they still have a bit of a grudge against it. They feel discomfort to register "no" hard, but they have not yet decided whether it should become "yes" or "next." A lot of people are left with a certain doubt, is my feeling in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u63	Please continue, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u64	On a fundamental issue such as removing organs from a body, the SGP considers explicit consent really necessary and important, also in view of the right to inviolability of the human body enshrined in our Constitution. I would like to emphasise this here, because we do so on other issues, for example when security is at stake and there are measures which, while restricting privacy, help security further. We say: be careful, because it is a violation of fundamental rights, and we cannot deal with that too carefully. This is also an additional infringement of this fundamental right, precisely because this step is being taken. That is mainly because of the fiction of: if you haven't heard from you, you are deemed silently to have said yes. That violates the fundamental right of inviolability of the body. I would like to invite the initiator to make a more explicit comment on this point. Why does it consider the infringement of this fundamental right proportionate and subsidiary? Mrs Bruins Slot has also asked a number of questions about this, and I am happy to join. I also think that an important disadvantage of the drafting of the bill is that there will soon be no clear distinction in the donor register as to whether an explicit consent or tacit approval has been granted for organ donation. This can negatively affect the acceptance of survivors. Moreover, the conscious "yes" of people becomes less visible and convincing. Mr Rutte pointed to that point just now. I wonder if the initiator shares these concerns. Wouldn't it help to change the bill so that a distinction is made between an active and a passive choice for organ donation? Mrs Dijkstra has now included in the legislative proposal that the information of the next of kin is decisive if the next of kin can prove that the registered consent does not correspond to the wishes of their next of kin. I would ask her to clarify this point. When does she think that argument is plausible? And what happens if the doctor finds that the argument of the next of kin is not plausible, when it turned out that it was right? In response to my question as to why many people have not yet registered a choice, several reasons have been listed in the note on the basis of the report. I thought that was a very clear overview. I thank Mrs Dijkstra for that table. It is striking, however, that in a large number of cases there are doubts about what is a good choice or that people do not yet fully trust what the circumstances will be like. I would say that these are all reasons to talk about it, but not to force a choice. Some find making a decision too difficult, others do not want to confront the next of kin with the procedure of brain death and the like. All this brings me to the next question. Can you deny all these people the right to doubt and the right not to choose? If people can't or don't want to make a choice for themselves, isn't that a legitimate choice? Why should a system force a choice and prevent the freedom to make a truly active choice? A relevant follow-up question concerns the effectiveness of the proposed system. What are the chances that these people will register a no if they are forced to make a choice with the legislative proposal before us? Can it also reflect on this in the light of various evaluations showing that a change in the decision-making system is likely to produce no or few additional organ donors, because more people will object to such a transition, while the family can still decide to donate the organs after death? The supposed consent of people who are willless and of people who are less or not well able to understand the meaning of the donor form sent, the SGP is completely problematic. There's a limited setup for willless, but not for actually incompetent. Then I am referring to the low-literate people and the like who has been spoken of. Does the applicant see opportunities to respond more explicitly to this in the legislative proposal? One final point I would like to raise is the decision by a specific person. The choice of a person who has deliberately chosen to leave the decision to a specific person shall be reversed by the provision of Article 11 (3) if the designated next-of-life is not available after the death. In that case, the legislative proposal provides for others to be able to make a decision. How does this relate to the donor's right to self-determination and to the inviolability of the body? Someone didn't choose to leave the decision to a specific person for nothing, did they? Does this do you do justice to the explicit choice of a person to actually place it with a specific person? That is my final question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr Van Gerven, would you like to ask a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u66	What I do not really understand is that the SGP is so strongly said that the right of self-determination and the integrity of the body are sacred. I follow the speech of emeritus professor Den Hartogh. Not all Christian parties are so in it, because the CDA has clearly offered openings, but the SGP does. Now faith knows all kinds of commandments. In doing so, one places the action in the hands of a god or of God and leaves the decision not to do anything to God.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u67	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u68	For example, there is the commandment "you will not kill," but there is also the commandment "love your neighbor." Why should it not be possible, on the basis of the commandment that you must love your neighbor, to say that there must be some form of ADR? This allows you to be very valuable to a lot of people who can use your organs even after your death.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u69	The answer to that question is that the atmosphere of love and doing good for me does not coincide with what is imposed by law as a legal obligation. There are many good deeds that I welcome and giving up an organ for another is certainly one of them. I really see that as a good deed, but I see it differently as imposing a legal obligation on citizens. It really has to do with the fundamental vision of the task of the government and the state-free space and fundamental rights citizens have vis-à-vis the government. Since it is such an intimate issue, I believe that this should remain personal with people and that the State must indeed keep its distance there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u70	I conclude, then, that Mr Van der Staaij makes a distinction. Where God imposes certain commandments or even duties that you would say as a human being: I might want something else, but this is a commandment and I follow it because I believe in God, he considers it acceptable or legitimate. However, if we replace the name of God with the "government" which also pursues a certain noble purpose for legitimate reasons, he does not consider it acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u71	It's true that I have more faith in God than in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-11.u72	The response will be discussed with the initiator for a later date. I thank Mrs Pia Dijkstra and the Minister and her support.
