ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have already promised the Minister and colleagues in the past: if the Dutch interest is at stake, I will speak here. I think that's the least I can do today, too. It was strange to get the question in the Committee on Economic Affairs whether it was necessary to deal with the net neutrality bill in plenary. Debate or no debate, it wouldn't change anything. As far as I am concerned, that is two things. First of all, a not too high appreciation of what is expected of us here. Secondly, Mr President, and I am a little sorry to have to say that, perhaps it is a little too little knowledge of the subject we are discussing today. The reason for this plenary debate is that BEREC's final guidelines are available. They were not there when this proposal was discussed in the House of Representatives on the other side in April, nor when we had written consultations with the Minister before the summer. In this ignorance, the House of Representatives welcomed the Minister's letter of amendment, which explicitly prohibits price discrimination. The question before us today is: is this letter of amendment, the head of the regulation, sustainable? Is it sustainable now that we have been able to take note of BEREC's final guidelines? We didn't get that information from the Minister. I think that's weird, too. Why didn't the Minister exchange that information with the members of this house? In formal terms, therefore, we have perhaps not even been able to see that they are at odds with the Minister's proposal. There are, of course, directives. They are online, but it might be useful to share these guidelines with colleagues before we vote next week. That is my first request to the Minister. For a good understanding of how this has turned out, it might be nice to go over the chronological steps. The cabinet voted against the Brussels regulation, assuming that it would infringe the ban on price discrimination as we know it in the Netherlands. The cabinet has tried to include the explicit price discrimination ban in the regulation, but it has not succeeded. Hence the vote against in Brussels. Later, the cabinet discovered a more general prohibition of discrimination in the regulation, which it believes should also cover price discrimination and zero rating. That is a twist that has not been submitted to the Council of State. As far as we are concerned, it is a very relevant turn. It is also a strange twist: you do not get your way in Brussels, no one agrees with you, and then you look for a clause to hang yourself equally. That is all the more so because this cabinet is the only one in Europe that has this interpretation. Now the Minister will not quickly find the PVV on his way if he is on a collision course in Brussels, if only in the Dutch interest. We would encourage him loudly. But the Dutch interest is not served by this headline on the regulation. The Minister only creates a playing field with different rules in the Netherlands. That is bad for the Dutch providers, because they have to do it with a different earning model than the competitors. Now that the Minister is against Brussels, it is not in the interests of the Netherlands. It is not in the interests of Dutch industry, which is lagging behind. Perhaps that also applies to the consumer. All supervisors consider that there is scope in the price discrimination directives, especially in the case of regulated zero rating. This is stated in BEREC's final guidelines. Whether that is right or wrong, I consider this debate to be less relevant. Does the Minister still think, now that the directives are known, are final, have been published and entered into force, that he alone has the right explanation, as he said in the House of Representatives? That would make him the haunted rider who complains about all those nasty runaways. What do you mean, "harmonized market"? That's what we're aiming for, isn't it? At least the Cabinet does. It is about equal rules and equal opportunities for Dutch business. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In a response to a question that the PVV previously asked the Minister, it emerged that he felt that only Dutch providers, through the ACM, the court and the European Court of Justice, should be involved. That costs a lot of money, not only for business, but also for the government and taxpayers. It takes a long time and at that time there is uncertainty on the Dutch market. I do not want to underestimate the Minister, but if he is the only one in Europe who interprets BEREC's rules differently, it is not really a wild guess to assume that the Minister will have to go to the European Court. If none of the market players goes to court, an inter-group procedure is very likely. That's even what the minister suggested to our house. Is it true that this intergroup procedure has been announced or prepared? Has the European Commission asked any questions about this head of the rules? Has the Commission come forward? I have heard sounds that it is almost certain that such an intergroup procedure will be launched. I'd like to get a response to that. Is it not wiser to keep this regulation? May I ask the Minister to do so? Keep the proposal. Inform colleagues in this house about the final BEREC directives, so that they can see that those directives are contrary to the proposal before us today. In consultation with BEREC's sector and supervisory authorities, this Regulation should not be repaired in the foreseeable future. If we in this House have set ourselves the objective of checking the effectiveness and feasibility of laws, this must be the only right request in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. These are not the easiest times for the European Commission. The Brexit plays and there are problems with Poland and Hungary. Fortunately, however, there is one windfall: the PVV's warm support for the European Commission's policy. It will certainly be appreciated there. I am undoubtedly speaking on behalf of the European Commission when I thank Mr Dercksen for that. I would like to comment on Mr Dercksen's contribution; an interesting contribution. However, I would like to make a preliminary remark. He always confuses guidelines and guidelines. A directive shall be adopted by the European Commission. This has been preceded by a whole process of consultation with the European Parliament and with the Member States. Member States should then draw up such a directive in their legislation. Such a directive is therefore rather binding in nature. A guideline is something of BEREC, the umbrella of supervisors in Europe. They have discussions with each other and they have views on how things should or should not be done. That is interesting, but it is really something other than a directive from the European Commission. It's good to keep that apart for a while. Let me now turn to the ban on price discrimination. We're talking about mobile communications. There are data bundles and there should be no discrimination, no positive discrimination and no negative discrimination in relation to these data bundles. That is the starting point of the Dutch Government and also of the House of Representatives, where we have discussed this issue very intensively and often. It doesn't have to be that one has to pay and the other doesn't. It's not like one has to pay more than the other. All those things that discriminated between the different parties, the different companies that wanted to use them, were not possible in the Netherlands, because we had a ban on price discrimination and therefore a requirement of net neutrality in our law. Then there was a decree. With this regulation, we have really tried to get a direct ban on price discrimination in it. That was not possible, but to our surprise we discovered that the final text of that regulation included a general ban on discrimination. You can discriminate in different ways. One of the ways is on price. If there is a general ban on discrimination, we believe that this also applies, quite logically, to price discrimination. Because there was a certain amount of uncertainty about it in others, we have thought: then we are going to make that very clear. That Regulation applies in the Netherlands, with that general provision of the prohibition of discrimination. Our separate provision that we had in the law, with a ban on price discrimination, is not contrary to that, so we leave it in our law. That's what happened. I think that is a very correct position for two reasons. First of all, it is in line with what has been put forward by the House of Representatives on many occasions. We are at the forefront of the development of mobile communications in the Netherlands and the use of the Internet in all kinds of ways. We have managed this by organising a very good market operation. One part of the proper functioning of the market is that parties are treated equally by infrastructure providers, in this case mobile infrastructure. We do not want this market to be weakened. We therefore do not want infrastructure providers to vary prices so that consumers cannot make a free choice and decide what they are reducing, but that providers, in this case mobile infrastructure, do so. That is the first reason why we believe that it should be as I have proposed and as the House of Representatives has stated with broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u4	I said in my first term that I wanted to stay away from this whole discussion about price discrimination. Whether that's right or wrong, it's more for the ACM and for the House of Representatives. I have put the emphasis on the fact that we now have a proposal from the Minister that runs counter to the guidelines.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the essence of my objection. I do not want to engage in the debate on price discrimination. I have heard about a number of products that I think may be of interest to the consumer. Don't argue with me. That's the discussion the ACM is having. I object to the fact that we have a separate playing field in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u5	I have heard from the PVV many times so far that he wants to get rid of the European playing field and settle matters in the Netherlands himself without the European Commission. That is a second remarkable point, which will be welcomed in Europe and which I, too, certainly understand. Mr Dercksen will be able to imagine that. I believe that we in the Netherlands are at the forefront of the development of mobile communications and the use of the Internet. Coverage is the largest in the Netherlands, use is the largest and market forces are the best. The House of Representatives has said from the outset that this is an important point. She believes that there should be net neutrality and that there should be no price discrimination. That has been explicitly incorporated into the law. The First Chamber has also established this. It is now a matter of whether I, or the cabinet, the Second or the First Chamber, believe that if the law were to be passed by the First Chamber, the law would be contrary to what is in the regulation. The cabinet has the absolute conviction that this is not the case. If you include a generic or general prohibition of discrimination in that regulation, that also means that price discrimination is not allowed. According to the cabinet, it's crystal clear. BEREC can come up with the directive and other countries can have their views, but we think that price discrimination under that regulation should not be allowed and we can leave that provision in the law. I think that at least there is a level playing field in the Netherlands, because the Dutch law applies to everyone who is going to do something in the Netherlands. I think that ultimately the European market will also move towards net neutrality. There can be no doubt about that. The regulation is already a very significant step towards net neutrality. The final step, explicitly prohibiting price discrimination, has not been taken, but I am convinced that the final step must also be taken, because of the text as set out in the regulation. If the European Commission does not agree, it will let us know and a judge will have to rule on it. My belief is that the judge will say: if you include in the regulation that discrimination should not be allowed, then price discrimination should not be allowed, because that is an important part of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u7	I'd like to keep my mouth shut, but otherwise I'll continue with the second argument I just wanted to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u9	One of my questions was: has there been any contact with the European Commission on a possible intergroup procedure? Did she ask you any questions? Has she announced anything yet? I have heard from people who are at home in Brussels that it is in the pipeline. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u10	I can only say that no intergroup procedure has been announced and there is no intergroup procedure. I am not free to discuss the content of contacts with the European Commission. These contacts take place at official level. Incidentally, they also take place at my level. I'm not free to make any announcements about that. I can only say that there is no intergroup procedure. It would be a mistake on the part of the European Commission if there were to be an intergroup procedure. She would then go against her own regulation. If that general provision that discrimination should not be included in the regulation, I was prepared to accept it. But if that general provision is in place, then I think we should keep up what we have in the law and what has led us in the Netherlands to have very good market functioning. That was also my second argument. For me, the view expressed by the First and Second Chambers in the law, the importance they attach to net neutrality and to the prohibition of price discrimination is the most important consideration. The second consideration is that if the European Commission considers that the explanation we give to it would be incorrect, in my opinion, it is precisely a matter for a judge to rule on it. Then we'll wait and see. With regard to the level playing field, I would like to say the following. In the Netherlands there is a level playing field. In Europe we are now moving towards a level playing field. We have come a long way with this regulation. I think that last step will also be taken in Europe. The sooner that happens, the better as far as I'm concerned. If there's no need to go to court and we can just get it done by convincing each other, it's okay. But if we have to, then we will also refer a case to the court once, or wait for the judge's judgment if another takes a case in this matter. I'll see if there's anything else I left. I have dealt with the Dutch interest and my conviction that our explanation is the right one. I said something about the intergroup procedure. My conclusion is that it would not be appropriate to keep this proposal now. It is really time to adopt this regulation and the law on that regulation. We should have done it before. If it is now established, it will be carried out with retroactive effect. I think it's okay now. This bill achieves two things. Firstly, we ensure that the regulation is worked out in our legislation. Secondly, we maintain net neutrality, including the ban on price discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u11	This is my last interruption. The Minister referred to the more general prohibition of discrimination. The BEREC guidelines include four A-fours with a specification of the possibilities for making an exception. Something general may have been issued, but BEREC believes that there are many possibilities to make exceptions to it. The exceptions are now applicable across Europe and even wider than the EU alone, because the EEA is also participating in this procedure. Only in the Netherlands it does not apply. The Minister says that we have a level playing field in the Netherlands, but there are no providers in the province of Utrecht who compete with providers in South Holland. We are dealing with national providers who have to earn their living here and who have to work with different business models than colleagues across the border. That is the essence of my objection. There are many exceptions in the BEREC guidelines. These are, in particular, regulated zero ratings. It is not entirely released so that one can do whatever one wants. There is quite specific what can and cannot be done within zero-rating. These are products that I think as consumers may not be that crazy, but that is not the point. The Minister creates a worse market for Dutch providers, a worse earning model than abroad. That is my big objection to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u12	I am afraid there is a misunderstanding here with Mr Dercksen. The Regulation is based on the principle that internet traffic should be treated equally without discrimination, restriction or influence by providers of Internet access services. There are a number of exceptions to this regulation. This is a limited list covering in particular the ban on blocking and slowing down Internet traffic. This can be done if necessary because of traffic management measures. If at some point there are too many data on the net and the net can't handle it, then you have to make sure you keep it manageable. Then you can take action. These measures are aimed only at the management of Internet traffic and are not there to penalise or favour one's services over another's services. It's about the principle. It's a little black and white or it's actually all black and white. Either there is no discrimination in terms of price or there is discrimination. If there is discrimination, you can think of all kinds of forms and fine words for it, but the key question is: do we allow discrimination to be appreciated or not? The Netherlands has already decided not to allow this. That's already laid down in the law. In this regulation we have the opportunity to maintain that ban and we must do so. I have explained that the way in which this is formulated in the regulation is in line with the proposal we are presenting to the Chamber. I therefore hope for the support of the Chamber for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u13	We need the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. A recurring remark from the Minister is that we are a big fan of the European Commission. I have seen this in previous debates. Maybe just to get it clear one more time, the next. We're for trade with abroad. We are in favour of a single market, but we are opposed to a political union, which we do not need at all. It would be a good thing if we could make agreements as a sovereign country with other countries, for example on such matters as the telecoms market. I think everything has actually been said. Like all other countries, like all other regulators in Europe, we see that space has been created in the BEREC guidelines. It doesn't matter if we like it or not. However we turn it or turn it, we create a different playing field in the Netherlands than elsewhere in Europe. This is bad for the Dutch providers, bad for the Dutch economy and bad for jobs in the Netherlands. I have tabled a motion, which is quite a long one, but our request is supported by various considerations. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Kok, Mr Van Strien, Mr Kops, Mr Popken and Mr Van Weerdenburg proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Net Neutrality Regulation differs from the definitive BEREC guidelines;]] [[whereas this will lead to different rules in the Netherlands from other European countries which will make Dutch providers less competitive;]] [[whereas an infraction procedure is more than likely;]] [[whereas providers and/or other interested parties have already indicated that they will challenge the implementation of this Net Neutrality Regulation through the courts, which will lead to lengthy and costly processes for both providers and the government (the taxpayer);]] [[Whereas the adoption of the implementing net neutrality regulation for a long period will lead to uncertainty on the Dutch market;]] [[Whereas the task of the First Chamber is inter alia to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of regulation and legislation and that this Regulation is at odds with that;]] [[calls on the government to keep up with this proposal and, in consultation with industry and supervisors and/or other stakeholders, to come up with an adapted proposal in which Dutch industry will not be put behind schedule or behind schedule. where the rules in the Netherlands will not differ from those elsewhere in the countries concerned by BEREC,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34379-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u15	Well-spoken chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u16	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. It's still a remarkable day for me. Mr Dercksen wants the sovereignty of the Netherlands to remain intact and says that he is in favour of an internal market. I can assure you that there are many aspects of the internal market, such as the digital market, the services market and the goods market. In order to achieve a single market, rules and enforcement must be agreed at European level. If you are really in favour of a single market, you are also in favour of a strong position for Europe to achieve it. This is a truly remarkable sound. I also find it remarkable that Mr Dercksen attaches so much importance to an intergroup procedure. If I had done what the PVV groups wanted me to do in this house and across the street, I would have had dozens of infraction procedures. It is remarkable that this is now a consideration. It has been said that Dutch rules are going to depart from rules elsewhere in Europe. However, we already had a rule that deviated, because we already had net neutrality. This was not the case in other countries. The new regulation brings the situation in other countries much closer to that in the Netherlands. Europe will also have to take the final step towards net neutrality. We are doing this in the interests of business. We have always done this in the Netherlands. This has led us to have a very well-functioning market in the Netherlands. This market operates better than that in other EU countries. The considerations in the motion are not correct, at least they do not lead to a proper ruling. I dissuade the Dercksen c.s. motion. I hope that this bill will come into force quickly so that we can maintain our net neutrality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-10.u18	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote? That's the case. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the bill and motion tabled.
