ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. On 6 April, the electorate may vote on the treaty which binds Ukraine economically and politically to the European Union. Ukraine is a country in civil war, with over 8,000 dead and over a million refugees. Ukraine is corrupt. Transparancy International's corruption index puts it at 130 out of 160. There's gonna be a campaign and it's gonna get the support of the government. Seven tons are available for people and organisations who want to run a yes campaign, seven tons for people and organisations who want to run a no campaign and six tons for a neutral campaign. That is a lot of money, but it seems that this money cannot be granted or can only be granted too late. The General Dagblad has reported on this. There are misunderstandings, chaos is even said, when applying for and granting that subsidy. I've got the application form right here. On the fourth page of it is the signature option. There is only room for one signatory, talking about "name," "signature," etc.: one signatory. Now the organisations get word back from the campaign agency that anyone involved in that campaign, at least anyone who is on the board of the organisation, has to sign there. Those subsidies are therefore not granted. What's the status? There was a deadline, January 14th. Also March 2 was mentioned, later. When will these organisations receive funds to carry out their campaign activities? Who's been failed here? The form is clear, isn't it? One signature is requested and it is always given. Is the Minister aware that organizations that campaign are now apparently in need and are therefore seeking refuge with, for example, foreign financiers such as George Soros? That is a man who has economic and financial interests in Ukraine and who is now going to support the yes camp for hundreds of thousands of euros. If that's not pollution of the campaign, I don't remember. People who have a financial interest in this agreement are going to put money into the yes campaign. It shouldn't be any crazier. I ask the Minister to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Bommel expressed his concern at the way in which subsidies were made available for the Ukraine referendum campaigns. He himself mentioned so clearly what subsidies are available that I would leave that part of my speech with him and join him. The availability of these subsidies indicates that the government attaches great importance to the success of that campaign and to the possibility for all opinions to be able to conduct their campaign properly. The implementation of this support has been deliberately placed at a distance from the government. The Referendum Committee is an independent administrative body. That is often found to be a somewhat unfortunate legal construction, but if it has been invented for something, it is as an independent body around elections. In this way, it must be absolutely clear that the government does not influence, as in this case, the allocation of subsidies. I can, of course, describe how the Referendum Committee filled that out. I think it is very important that a proper evaluation is carried out. The points raised by Mr Van Bommel, for example on the signing, have also come to my attention. On the one hand, it can be no surprise that if you ask for tax money, you have to pay a subsidy. It can also be no surprise that you will check who was allowed to sign on behalf of a foundation or association if you are a director of it. In finance, that's usually more than one person. I wouldn't even sign on my own when it comes to the finances of an association or foundation. In itself, that cannot be surprising. It can't be surprising that you're handing in your statutes. In communication, Mr Van Bommel may have shown a form of confusion. I know that organisations have been given the opportunity to make recovery, to provide additional information. In any case, I think it is very important that we keep our finger on the pulse and evaluate carefully afterwards whether there is room for improvement. In the end, this is the first time that a referendum has been organised in this way. At least now I know that it is still possible to submit applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is surprising that it will even be chaos if the government is not involved. That seems to be the case here. It's placed remotely, and yet it's a mess. I thought it was a guarantee that it would go well. At least that didn't happen here. I did not get an answer to my question on the substance of the problem of these organisations: when will they have the resources to launch this campaign? Now, apparently, they rely on foreign financiers. The referendum is about two months away. They're gonna have to put some activity in the docks right now. Can applications be made now or are deadlines being postponed? These are all questions that arise from the fact that at least it is unclear who needs to sign. I refer again to the form I have with me. There's only room for one signature. It's up to the minister to look at it for himself. As far as I am concerned, the organisations that say that they have been sent back because they need more signatures are entitled to do so. They have done what has been asked, they have delivered and they have been signed by people who are competent to do so. That doesn't seem to be enough. The error lies not on their side, but on the side of the independent administrative body, the Referendum Committee. What is the Minister going to do, apart from the evaluation when everything is done in the near future, to ensure that this is resolved in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr Van Bommel posted a lot of statements and made a lot of announcements. I'll try to catch them all by the head. He expressed as an established fact that there was chaos and that things have gone seriously wrong. As far as I'm concerned, you can't tell yet. There is, however, a lack of clarity. Again, I do not find it very surprising that a financial transaction requires several persons to sign on behalf of a legal person. I think it is only logical that an organisation that distributes taxpayers' money should look very critically at that too. However, we must take a very critical look at whether we have made communication as clear as possible. Because of the fact that the distribution of subsidies has been deliberately distanced from the government, I am not going to send or make calls in the interim. I don't have that authority either. I will convey the concerns expressed here to the Referendum Committee, but it is not appropriate for me to go to an independent administrative body. The deadline for the submission of applications and the payment of money is laid down in the Regulation. It's common knowledge. The raising of funds for a campaign in other places is, of course, allowed in a free country. Everyone has to be clear about that. I have also heard that money may also come from other countries for both the yes and the no campaign. In itself that is allowed, but I would like to see transparency about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr Van Bommel, you have 17 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I can close. The Minister is concerned with the same thing as us, namely that it is verifiable, but also that the money is being spent efficiently. If money becomes available too late, it will no longer be possible to campaign effectively. I would like to ask the Minister, at least in the direction of the Referendum Committee, to give the hand that extra support is provided by the government if it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Again, I will convey the concerns to the Referendum Committee. The referendum itself is scheduled for 6 April, as Mr Van Bommel knows. The deadline for the grants has already been fixed on 2 March, so the period for the campaign is long enough in itself. Mr Van Bommel rightly notes that we both have the ambition to have that money distributed fairly and in good time, so we will certainly keep our finger on the pulse without going to the Referendum Committee on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	I am, of course, very pleased with Mr Van Bommel's question, because the SP may be on the opposite side, but we have one common interest: a worthy campaign on this issue. It must come from the SP and D66 at least so far. D66 has also applied for a grant. We'll see if it comes. We even took money out of the party cash for this campaign. The Minister is now making a number of commitments here to improve the debate within his possibilities. I have another question that I've asked the cabinet before. However, I keep hearing fluctuating sounds and I want clarity so badly. The question is: what will the cabinet itself do to campaign? That all stays a little matty. It remains distant, careful and restrained. I would like to see a minister who says that we are going to run a full-scale campaign ourselves and, of course, that all the other parties can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	There can be no misunderstanding that the government believes that the treaty with Ukraine is a good thing, so it wants to go through with it in the end. There can also be no misunderstanding that there is a referendum law in the Netherlands, that the government considers it very important that that referendum is properly implemented and that it will take the outcome seriously. At the same time, money is scarce. Where we have the opportunity to convey this message, I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for that, too. I myself recently did so in a radio broadcast myself, even in a debate with one of the initiators of the referendum. We also make money for the organization. There has also been a discussion with the Chamber. That amount has been increased. There is money available for the campaigns, but there is also once a limit to what is available. We are now at over 30 million for the organisation of the election itself. That's really big money. In addition, the 2 million referred to by Mr Van Bommel himself. So there can be no ambiguity about the opinion of the cabinet, but there is also once a limit to the amount of tax money that can be spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	I think that we agree that if you hold a referendum, regardless of the content of the referendum, it will have to be accompanied in a good way, also in view of the various campaigns and opinions surrounding it. A referendum is not free, so it is good that these funds are available. The Minister says that this money should be available in good time. I then get little clarity about this, while the crux of the problem might be there, that if people apply for funding within organizations, they will get it too late to get the necessary leaflets and other printed matter available and organise meetings. Can the Minister be more clear on this point, as far as he can, and promote the swift completion of grant applications?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Grashoff says with me that this money must be available in good time. I was talking to Mr Van Bommel about this. It has already been announced what the timelines will be for the referendum committee. The application is possible until 2 March and will be made as soon as possible. The referendum will be held on 6 April. I am not the only one in this room who has some experience with campaigns; I will not recommend a campaign for more than four weeks. This is a time when you can run a decent campaign, clear enough to deliver the message without completely watering it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think it's a good thing that we're going to talk about the content later and not just about the campaign as a campaign. A little fog has just been created by Mr Van Bommel about what the treaty is about. It is not about drawing Ukraine into the European Union, but about working with Ukraine and combating corruption in Ukraine. There is corruption there, and that is what we need to do, even if the Dutch business community wants to invest there. Now that the criteria for the people who receive subsidies are clear, for, against or neutral, how can you see whether a neutral campaign request from people who may have been clearly in opposition is being properly assessed and awarded? How can you then see afterwards whether that campaign was carried out according to the line of the campaign that was requested?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think transparency is very important when it comes to granting subsidies, tax money. That is why I have just indicated that those who receive them should be accountable. I am sure that the Referendum Committee will also be clear about the procedure and the criteria that it applies at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	The one who delivers on time is the American multimillionaire Soros, who has not only come up with his own money in a dubious way, but also has great financial interests in Ukraine: oil, gas, ICT. How does the Minister feel about that? This guy's gonna take big money to support the yes campaign. Is the Minister saying that it is strange that Mr Soros is going to sponsor his own economic interests through the yes campaign? Or is he saying that this is precisely the essence of the yes campaign and that it shows exactly why this treaty with Ukraine is not good for the Dutch, is not good for the people in Ukraine, but it is good for American multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	A campaign involves campaigning, and it costs money. Grants are available for this purpose. In a free country, it is not prohibited to use other sources. I think transparency is very important here. I have indeed heard that supporters of both the yes and the no campaign may call on foreign funds. This is not prohibited, but it is important to provide transparency in the sources used so that everyone can assess the interests involved. We do not need to ban it in advance.
