ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond to your Chamber's comments, questions and suggestions on these four legislative proposals. The essence of these legislative proposals is that justice is introduced by the KEI programme in the 21st century. This has been preceded by a very long and very careful process, in which not only the Council for Justice but also all the parties involved have done an enormous amount of work. These are the administrative bodies, the Dutch barristers, the bailiffs and certainly both government commissioners, both those for civil law, Mr Hammerstein, and those for administrative law, Mr Scheltema. In this context, I would like to propose that both government commissioners should first have the opportunity to make a number of technical comments and to answer a number of technical questions. Then I would like to continue with the more political part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u2	Thank you. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Hammerstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u3	Madam President. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on this subject in this Chamber. I have listened with great interest to the questions which relate only to a small part to the content of the draft legislation. I shall confine myself to that part. I do have two general comments. First of all... As the Minister said, one of the objectives of the draft laws is to make digital traffic possible. I have noted the broad agreement of the Chamber. There's no discussion about that. The discussion is about how it is implemented. It has two aspects. One aspect is the question of what this means for the case-law and for those taking part in the case-law. It has rightly been said that they are lawyers, but they are also ordinary citizens. It concerns digital access and therefore, in particular, the movement of documents. What was on paper can now be digital, and that will generally mean a great improvement and simplification. It will also cause complications, and difficulties in the area of all the infrastructure needed to ensure that all of this works properly. We regard this last aspect as a subject which is more political than in substance. So I'm staying out of it. My second general comment concerns the position of the judge in this trial. Concerns have been expressed about this, including from the case-law itself, i.e. from the judges. These are concerns about workload, overload and a whole range of other issues. In itself, these draft laws do not change that situation. The judge's position remains the same. First of all, the judge himself will be responsible for the way in which he or she is now more responsible than he or she carries out his or her work. An important question as a whole was whether KEI is a system-defining or supporting program. The answer is it's supportive. Digital litigation is a tool to ensure that the movement between the courts, parties and legal aid providers runs smoothly and that internal work processes go in a different way. I am the first to admit that this will have very serious consequences, but these consequences will be mainly intended and intended to simplify the work of the courts and the support of the courts, parties and legal aid providers. That there are concerns about the implementation, I understand very well, but they are of all times. At the risk of giving you an old example: my period as a government commissioner is only very short, but my experience in justice is rather long. 40 years ago, I started at a small court as a deputy or acting clerk. The president of that court told me that he heard about every month that another closet had been opened from which files came out. That image wasn't entirely unusual at the time. If there had been digital litigation at the time, there would have been no such problem. Moreover, that President has had a chance to resolve it in a year and a half and that court has never, as far as I know, been lagging behind. The problem of too much work or the way the judge has to work is not a problem linked to these draft laws or to digital litigation. On the contrary, I think that digital possibilities will ultimately prevent Susskind from being extremely useful. So it's not system-defining. The judge remains responsible for the content of the work and for the way in which the judge carries out the work. There also remains in KEI all space for customization. One of the questions was what simplification meant. Simplification means a civil procedure with a simplified model, which is indeed very much in the direction of administrative law. It's a form of harmonisation. And why? Because that model has proven to work in practice. There is a written round and an opportunity for the parties to still be able to argue, explain and answer questions before the court. That model is the model that is expected to work in most cases, and it is designed to be easy to do in a digital procedure. In complex procedures, if the parties so request, or if they so request, the judge can provide customization in each individual case. Thus, as expected, the autonomy of the courts is not affected. The judge works with support and in the division of labour there is often work that is prepared by one person and decided by the other. That is commonplace and that does not change with the draft laws that are now before us. I would like to say a few words about the legal deadlines and the role of the judge. First of all, about the latter. The role of the judge is in line with the changes in procedural law from 2002 onwards, in which, in the civil proceedings, the role of the judge in the administrative procedure has gone from a more cautious role to a more active role, especially in order to ensure the smooth running of the procedure. That is the directing role of the judge, who can see from the judge's side what parties do and what is an efficient, good and meaningful way of deciding the dispute that is brought before her or him. This role also has to do with the monitoring of time limits, something that the judge must do on the basis of Article 6 of the ECHR or on the basis of our legal action, namely to promote the proper conduct of the procedure but also to promote the proper conduct of the procedure. In this context, it fits, and that is one of the few real changes in the legislation that is ahead and which is not substantially different from the previous one, that the court is bound, like parties, by legal time limits. The question is whether that solves delays. The answer is "no" because you can't shout "you have to decide within six weeks" a delay resolve. However, it is a legal basis for the case-law to ensure that work is carried out in a way that can be carried out in accordance with these deadlines. We already know these legal deadlines in administrative law and we know from them that these legal deadlines are not always met, but it is an incentive for the courts to show that this responsibility to decide on time or at least as soon as possible lies there. This works in administrative law, and it will undoubtedly work in civil justice. I think I have dealt with the most important questions. If there are any other questions, I'd like to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Hammerstein. Mr Ruers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u5	I would like to thank Mr Hammerstein for his explanation. I agree with most of the points he makes, but I said in my contribution that in practice the judges themselves see that their direction and influence on the process are hampered by the administration of the whole procedure. The board takes on an increasingly heavy role and, as it were, restrains the judge, which means that his space, the direction you call, is getting smaller and smaller. They feel that as a tax. I would like to know how Mr Hammerstein sees it. Does he also see this administration and its influence on the judge? Let me give you an example. At a court last year, a director of the court comes to a chamber of the court at some point and says to the members of that chamber: you make one plea per part of the day, but that is not enough for our board, you have to do two on one part of the day. You know what pleas are. It won't keep you one-two-three. It's normal for you to do one a day. Those judges felt they were faced with a dilemma. They must weigh the content and quality against the authority of the administration. Such dilemmas occur in practice. Isn't that a violation of the directing role the judge should have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u6	Thank you for this question, which is a very important point in the case-law. In the whole of the case-law, the principle is that there is a separation of content between administration and case-law. The board does not interfere with the content of a case, nor does it interfere with the manner in which it is dealt with. In individual cases, a board can never say: you have to deal with this case in this way. I myself have been the chairman of the sector and president of a court for some time, and at that time this problem existed. I have always said to the people, in this case the court, "You must deal with your case in a way that you yourself feel is right. If then the consequences are that we lack money, that is my problem and not yours." But the problem does exist. Those sounds are loud and clear. You can't say there's no problem. It has to do with the fact that in recent years justice has had to go from relatively large delays to a situation that was financially sound but also healthy in the sense that people should not wait too long for procedures. This means that there is to some extent........................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's friction, that's the way it's supposed to be. Wanting to achieve high quality and not have so much money is a field of tension that you can never solve, because there is never enough money. What is happening in my perception now is that the tension field is coming out a little more, but of course it has existed for years. What we need to learn again is that the judge is about the case and the board is about the business. Those roles need to be rebalanced. My information is that we are working very hard on this. Sometimes people need to get rid of their grams and that needs to be made clear. It's a problem that's always existed. From the moment I joined the justice system, there's always been a shortage. So that's never been any different. It's pretty serious right now. I would not like to trivialize it, but I do think that the case law and the judges themselves should come out of it. You can do that with the independent position the judge has. In that sense, I expect that with these proposals for legislation on digital works there will be much more possibilities than we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u7	I hear Mr Hammerstein saying that the judge is independent and that he must make the most of that independence in order to do what he thinks he should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u9	Does he agree with me that the legislator and the government should ensure that the independence of the judge is taken into account in all processes, management and administration around it? They must therefore give the judge the room so that he can fully assume that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u10	Now I'm getting on the Minister's side, so I gotta watch out. It goes without saying that legal proceedings are also linked to a system of financing which has limitations in any form. You need to connect what is needed to achieve good and timely justice, what can be expected from politics, the legislator and the minister and what justice itself should do. That is what I believe is being tried at the moment. On the one hand, there must be sufficient money, but on the other hand, justice must also show that it is the most efficient process. Because working efficiently is not contrary to good justice; you can do good justice in an efficient way. In that discussion, we must always look from two sides at what is going on. It cannot be that justice says: you should take my blue eyes and give me the money we ask for as much as possible. That's one way. On the other hand, it is not the case that the case law is a production company where each can be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u11	I have a subsequent question before we run the risk of getting to the border with the Minister's premises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u12	The Minister warns me, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u13	I'm sure. Mr Hammerstein says that this will have to be resolved by the courts themselves. At the same time, he outlines the position of the judge vis-à-vis the court administrator. Indeed, every organisation will have to strive for sound efficiency. Of course, no corpses should remain in the closet, as in the example he gave. Normal lead times will also have to be used, related to what can be expected. But it could also give a stronger place to peer review and the way in which it is assessed. Is that level of professionalism there? Next, the administration of the courts may lack money: it simply isn't there. That seems to me to be a responsibility of the courts. In relation to this, Mr Hammerstein said that they should solve this themselves. This does not seem to me to be entirely appropriate, because it will then be the Minister's responsibility to deal with the financing system, which a number of spokesmen have raised today. Can Mr Hammerstein briefly comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u14	I understand Mr Backer's question. My view is not that the case law itself should resolve it. There is a macro point, namely that the Council consults with the Minister on what is needed in the budget and shows it to him. This is based on a number of principles, assumptions and data on which you need to agree, because you need to talk about a lot of things. The budget of the courts is, in principle, determined by the number of cases. That is basically a question of the courts; that is what they have to deal with. But there can be all kinds of circumstances that make dishes say: we have had a number of extremely complicated cases this year and therefore we are no longer within the standard standard; is there room for that? That must be the discussion. It must be able to show that they have done everything possible and have remained within the normal budgetary rules, but in exceptional cases there must be a possibility for discussion. That has to be seen from both sides. Those who must provide the money must do so within the possibilities that exist. Those who run the company, which is the legal system, can also say on the other hand: we try to work optimally within the set quality standards and we need a certain budget for that. That's what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u15	If there are no further questions from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mr Scheltema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u16	Madam President. I would like to say a few words about administrative law. Not many comments have been made, so I can be brief. However, I would like to emphasise what many Members have said: this is an important and important meeting of the rule of law. When it comes to the General Administrative Law Act, which regulates not only administrative procedural law but also, more generally, the framework for the relationship between citizens and government, it is, of course, a key element of the rule of law. I would like to place these changes in the line of maintenance and maintenance that has been followed in recent years. More emphasis is placed on the position of citizens in the rule of law. It is very important that the rule of law is properly regulated in law and in paper form, but this does not guarantee that the citizen also finds himself living in a rule of law. You can make a certain distinction. On the one hand, there is what I would like to call the 'bureaucratic rule of law'. This is also extremely important, but the procedural rules sometimes mean that the public no longer sees the forest. On the other hand, you could put the responsive rule of law. It also shows that, in the end, it is about him. That is what we must strive for, and that is what we are trying to do. In this respect, these legislative proposals fit very well, because they make it easier and more transparent for citizens to sue in administrative law. Let me give you one concrete example. Every citizen can sue himself in administrative law and does not need legal aid. In the new portal, when he wishes to draw up a notice of appeal, he is guided by the various elements which that notice of appeal must contain, so that he can satisfy the requirements of a notice of appeal more easily than if he were not offered such assistance. In this context, the legislative proposals are therefore a step forward from a legal and responsive right-wing perspective. The only specific question was from Mrs Strik, who asked what experience was gained in the field of administrative law evaluation. Administrative law can already be challenged digitally, although the regulation we are dealing with now is much better and provides a much clearer basis for this. A number of pilots have been set up. Evaluations have also been carried out. Mrs. Strik asked about things that came out of it. Those are often very specific things, but I mention a few general things. Firstly, it emerged that access to the portal often took far too much time. That caused great irritation and, of course, is also annoying. That's fixed. There is perhaps another point that is more important in terms of content. If a new piece is placed in the digital file, you will receive a notification by e-mail outside the system. Now it turned out that those e-mails were so cryptic that you couldn't understand exactly whether it was urgent or non-urgent. It is important that you can see if you need to look at something directly or that you can wait. That point also came forward and has been resolved. We're trying to update the system with the evaluations. They are not very big points, but it is important that they are done. That was what I had to notice, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Scheltema. I see that there are no further interruptions, so I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u18	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to express my thanks to both government commissioners for their willingness to assist me in this debate, but also for their willingness to closely monitor the whole process of these legislative proposals. I am very grateful to them for that. In the introduction, I said that this process was not only brought about by the government commissioners and the department. A great deal of thanks is due to the Council for its case-law, but above all to the chain partners. These are, for example, the administrative bodies, which, of course, have a major interest in the digitisation of administrative law, the Dutch order of lawyers and the professional organisation for bailiffs. I would like to mention just a few of the parties that work very closely together to make this a success. That is also of their own interest. As Mr Rombouts said, the legal profession calls for these legislative proposals to be introduced. Mrs. Duthler gave it so nicely. She said that the fax might now be a thing of the past. I've said jokes to young people myself that they should walk to court, so I could show them something they'd never seen before, namely a fax. When I became a lawyer, we still had a telex, which was very impressively rattling and where all sorts of things came out with holes. We never understood exactly what that was. I thought the fax itself was an enormous innovation, but I think it is time that we allowed digitisation to continue to grow in the judiciary. I have a great deal of support from all the spokesmen for the legislative proposals and the choices they have made. Of course there are some technical questions, but I think they have already been answered very well by the government commissioners. However, I do not hear anyone saying that we should not do it. I have come to the conclusion that all the spokesmen believe that the four legislative proposals are good. The basic principles are: simpler, cheaper and more accessible litigation, without paper documents to be sent over and over again. Parties can see their own files, which is of great importance. They're no longer dependent on third parties. Parties who sue without a lawyer, what can be done in administrative law and also in civil law under certain circumstances, are helped with a trial tree via the website. They are helped to organise their procedural documents in such a way that they can be handled successfully. Meanwhile, there is also a substantial simplification of civil procedural law. There will be a simple basic procedure. Mr Backer spoke extensively about this, for which I thank him. One thing is certain: the court hearing is central and the role of the judge will not change, as Mr Hammerstein said. The judge is and will remain the person who directs and is responsible for the manner in which the trial takes place. If the judge thinks that there is a need to deviate in the context of customization, then it can be done. The digitization we are discussing today does not result in less contact with the judge, but only that the change of pieces is digital. The case law has worked very hard on this in recent years. Not only by the Council of Justice, but also by all courts. Let us not forget that the courts have been preparing themselves for the introduction of these legislative proposals for a long time. That is one of the main reasons for the date of introduction. The dishes run ahead and ensure that they are ready to participate in the experiments. This will ensure that implementation can take place in a responsible manner. I would therefore like to congratulate not only the Council on the case-law but also the individual courts on the commitment and the chosen system. The project is not introduced as a single large ICT project, but has a step-by-step approach. Each step is discussed with all parties involved, such as the Dutch barristers and bailiffs. There are pilot panels, there is practice and there is a look at what is being run into and what can be done even better. All this is done to ensure that everyone is ready to start the experiments when the legislation is completed. Those experiments are already there for administrative law. Experiences are positive, but they also give new suggestions for improvement every time. In the present Civil Law Act there is an experimental clause, which makes it possible to use the experiments from 1 February 2017. That happens in a very careful and respectful way. It also ensures that you are sure that the system works, that it does justice to the principles and that the goals we have set are achieved when you come to the final introduction. It is ultimately a good, reliable and safe system that allows all parties, such as judges, professional parties and judges, to work for themselves. I am also very grateful for the very careful involvement of the interests of the Dutch order of lawyers. That doesn't mean there's nothing to worry about. These concerns have been widely shared with the Chamber, including in a number of letters, and the Chamber has discussed them carefully with all interested parties. I will come back to that in the debate on the implementation of the laws. One thing is certain: the system is constantly tested for reliability, functionality and safety. Professional parties are offered the possibility of a so-called system coupling. However, it does not mean that our digital society will not be able to prevent disruptions. I thought Mr Ruers pointed that out. In fact, there has been a malfunction with the Council of Justice in May of this year. That was a nasty, but good lesson for the justice system to do everything in its power to prevent such failures in the digital environment. I have answered questions to the House very recently, or I will answer them very soon. It has been shown that the malfunction has consequences, not so much for the course of justice as such, but for the use of courtrooms. If you don't have a file, it's hard to hold a hearing. There is a vulnerability, which is by the way no different from the vulnerability we now know with the paper system. Mr Hammerstein gave an example from a very long time ago, but I am afraid we also have some more recent examples of cases that were not in the right place at the right time. It doesn't make it any different in itself, but the system is focused as much as possible on preventing failure. If there is a malfunction, it must be carefully communicated. Research needs to be done. I'm committed to this happening. Mr Ruers asked me whether I could not answer more than research is being carried out. However, I think it is very important for research to be carried out because we need to learn from it. The system shall be adjusted in such a way as to minimise the risk of malfunctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u19	That malfunction occurred on May 23rd. It's July 5th now. I imagine that in the event of such a major national disturbance, it is very easy to say that a cable was hacked or accidentally cut. I'm intrigued that it takes so much time to do an investigation. I think you can see a fact. You can make some announcements about that. Then you can do an investigation of maybe a few months or a year, about the causes of the fact. Can the Minister say anything about the fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u20	I have to do that in the second term, because I can't remember that from the concept answer I saw. I do remember the system was fixed late at night. The problem lasted a day. That led to the breakdown of hearings. It became painfully clear that the emergency system did not function. That was because the system had only partially failed. The emergency system is based on the idea that it is only necessary if the system fails completely. So the system was completely shut down and then the emergency system came into operation. What caused it, I'm not ready, but I'll look it up for the second term. It was a good lesson in itself. As the unfortunately deceased philosopher Johan Cruijff always said: every disadvantage has its advantage. This was a major disadvantage, but it also had an advantage, namely that we found that the Council was able to establish in the case-law that the emergency provision did not function adequately. There is no doubt that the study will show that this has to be done in a different way. The case law is currently being prepared for these legislative proposals. Time is running out to work with the system. For the first phase, the system is ready. I now come to a few general comments on the entry into force. Then I will answer the individual questions. I do it in four blocks, first the implementation and implementation, then ICT and malfunctions, then funding and finally the deadline for implementation, also in response to Mr Backer's questions about this. First, the phased entry into force. The good news is that the government Commissioner also said that the system has now been tested on a voluntary basis in asylum and detention matters, administrative law. The pilot has started with some dishes and now extended to the whole country. The experience, as Mr Scheltema said, is largely positive. In civil law, testing can begin in real cases if the legislative proposals are accepted by this Chamber. Then the courts of Gelderland and the Central Netherlands will, also on a voluntary basis, start a pilot on the basis of the experimental provision contained in the law. In principle, the pilot will be on a voluntary basis six months later, I have come to discuss this extensively, and will proceed to an obligation to sue digitally. It has been agreed with the House of Representatives that there should always be six months between the publication of the legislative proposals in the Official Journal and the first phase of the entry into force of the legislation. I also agreed with the House of Representatives that implementation will not continue if the technical system is not able to do so. The six-month period is therefore not a maximum period, but a minimum period. Chain partners should always have six months to be carefully connected to the system. If it is not yet justified that the connection to the system takes place, then there is no implementation. That is an important notion, also in the direction of Mr Backer, because that way we take away the concern of the legal profession and the bailiffs. They do not have the obligation to participate in a system that does not function properly. We cannot do that either, because we are talking about access to justice and access to justice. You can't take any chances with that. In that six months, justice and all chain parties will be able to prepare themselves for the new procedure. The experience that has already been gained with the experimental assessment helps in this. For each stage of entry into force it is not a major "go/no go" moment at the end of those six months, but a phased procedure "go/no go" decision is taken separately. That is not good Dutch, but we all understand what we are talking about. For this decision, the case law will also seek advice from the important chain parties, lawyers and bailiffs, as will the administrative bodies. Each new phase will not enter into force until the previous pilot has been successful. I'll come back to that. In this way, through the participation of all those parties, a responsible implementation of the new litigation is possible in the digital age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u21	Asking for advice is a different matter than making sure that everyone can agree that the moment of go has come. Suppose, in the case-law of the Council, that everything is fulfilled, but that the NSA clearly indicates in a number of respects that they are not yet sufficiently developed to allow this to continue. What happens then? Can the Council say formally: we have heard your advice, but we will continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u22	The responsibility lies with the Council for the case-law. In theory, it could say: we are going ahead, because we do not see the problem. Technically, I could, but I don't think this is wise. Suppose the Dutch order of lawyers says Mr. Backer already referred to it: this is technically not carried out, but you oblige us to do so. I'll see a problem right away. However, the Royal Decree transposing the "go/no go" decision of the Council into policy must be taken by me. The Court understands that, if that situation were to arise, even though I am not going to be able to find out from the chain parties that I am going to say: Minister, the Council of Justice says that it is all right, but we do not agree with it. I will then have to take independent action, because I ultimately have responsibility for the system as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u23	Will both the Council and the Minister take a well-founded position if there are different opinions on the basis of the decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u24	I think so. Mr Backer said that there should actually be some sort of committee. I do not think that this is a good idea, because I do not think it is necessary, but it goes without saying that as a minister responsible for the system, I am not going to use the KB at the moment when I do not believe that the system is functioning and that the functionalities are as they should be. Then I will have to establish that I can be advised by everyone, because I am not an ICT user myself as to what the points of dispute are and how heavy they must weigh. I am also happy to be able to do so, but given the importance of this subject, it goes without saying that both Chambers should be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u25	This is a key issue that raises a great deal of concern. I would like to thank Mrs Strik for raising this issue. The Minister expresses that concern very eloquence. He talks to everyone, and that's how he finds out. This Chamber found it rather surprising, after two or three years of preparation, that the chain partners did not agree in the round table with us on a number of issues. So the gremium to meet is not there, although there are bilateral talks, at least as far as I am concerned. I would like to put the question to the Minister in his further speech, also because he does not see anything in a committee, in what way that guarantee can be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u26	In a way, I've already said that. Perhaps I can reassure Mr Backer in that regard. The Minister is responsible for the system. The Court of Justice has the responsibility for the development of the system. The council is independent in that. However, the Council needs me to ensure that this is fully developed. I see that as my job, too. I understood Mr Backer's speech in his first term as saying: "Minister, pay attention. If the parties do not agree, I see a task for you. You will then have to play an active role in this." That's how I see it. I cannot afford it, but neither can the Council, for the sake of justice, nor anyone else, to take risks when it comes to access to justice and access to justice. If the Council of Justice says to me in its opinion that it is ready for the system, then I will be informed by the Council as to whether the chain partners agree with the Council. If that is not the case, then I must speak to the parties under my system of responsibility, see what the problem is, and assess whether it is justified under these circumstances to follow the advice of the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u27	In the reply in the note, the Minister concluded that he was still asking for advice on the technical state. He's not waiting for that, but in an ICT project, isn't it so strange to do that? The Minister always talked about the system, but that system has a certain entrance. There have also been certain developments. Some things are ready, while others are not ready. Eventually, another opinion on the system and technology may be requested. The Minister ruled that out in the written reply, but if that is true, I would be disappointed. I think the Minister should keep the space to do so anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u28	I have that space, too. If the situation we are setting out now were to arise, namely that there is disagreement as to whether or not the system can be introduced, despite all due care, then I can always do so, but I do not want to do so by default. I believe that we should first give justice and the chain partners the opportunity to come out in good consultation, on the basis of the experience in administrative law that is very positive. The people who volunteer to do so are relatively enthusiastic about it. However, improvements have also been shown to be possible. That's what things were meant for. The same applies to civil law experiments. I expect that this will also lead to improvements, even though testing is already under way. That doesn't happen in the real environment, by the way. If it is necessary and if I do not feel comfortable with it, I will, of course, be advised on it, as I say to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u29	I heard the minister say he's gonna invite parties to his table and take stock of the issues. I see the role of the minister above all as that of mediator; bringing parties together. I also heard the minister say he's not an ICT expert. I can imagine that if this role of mediator fails, he will be advised by people who do have ICT expertise. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u30	I have just promised this to Mr Backer, which is obvious. By the way, I assume that, by the time the experiments have taken place, the Council of Justice, supported with great enthusiasm by the Dutch barristers, bailiffs and administrative bodies, will come to the conclusion that it is good to proceed with the introduction. This can in principle be six months after 1 February 2017, but it can also take longer. That is just another matter of care. But in the situation that it does not end well, I can well imagine that I will be advised separately. That is obvious, and I have indicated this in the direction of Mr Backer. Then I come to Mr Ruers and Mrs Strik who asked whether this system is capable of improving the quality of justice. Of course, justice remains human work and its quality is largely determined by the quality of the judges. Of course, it will help if judges have access to their files in time, if they are able to sort out their files in a simple way, if there are no discussions on which documents are or are not part of the file, and if they can do their work in places where they find it pleasant, without having to drag files back and forth. This system, in support of justice, as Mr Hammerstein said, contributes to a simpler, more accessible and more effective process of justice, which will give parties much easier access to justice in all possible ways. So I really see it as supporting a process that we have used together to ensure the quality of justice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u31	Can the Minister say anything about the lead times? That is a very important point in order to achieve the cuts. Does he also see KEI as a way of improving the lead times or shortening the existing lead times? Does he see opportunities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u32	Sure. As Mr Hammerstein has already pointed out, the law provides for legal deadlines which in principle apply to everyone. At the same time, we note that exceptions should be possible. But these deadlines are there and they also provide a clear guidance on how we believe that the process should take place. On the one hand, it must always be done carefully; on the other hand, everyone involved in a procedure has an interest in ensuring that this happens as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u33	The Minister says there are time limits that the judge is bound by. However, there are already legal deadlines. The judge's imposing time limits on himself. These are usually four or six weeks' time limits, but they are just as easily extended by the judge. Apparently, this is not a sufficient means of pressure for a rapid flow. What will be the penalty, if a deadline is imposed in the new system, for example, if a legal period of four or six weeks is imposed? What is the penalty if the judge simply postpones that period or fails to meet that deadline? What can you do as an interested party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u34	Perhaps the Commissioner could comment on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u35	There is no sanction because there may be all kinds of reasons for exceeding that deadline. However, what I have learned from the case law itself is that the mere fact that there are deadlines in the law is a clear incentive for the courts: I have to stick to that, because everyone knows that. It's not timelines the judge calls himself anymore, but they're in the law. In any case, that's a first step to a slightly more radical system in court. Actually, that's already a sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u36	I recognize that from my own experience as a lawyer. When the legal deadlines came, Mr Ruers also knows that they have not been there for so long, which also applied to the legal profession, for example with regard to the plea and procedural matters, that has helped the case enormously. Mrs Duthler asked a question about the steering information within the programme. Mrs Duthler knows more about ICT than I do, but I'm going to do my best. The program works with proven program management methods, such as MSP, managing successful programs, and PRINCE2. The program works with concrete two-week dashboards on the production process. These include the speed of production and the progress in planning, budget and possible malfunctions and their solution. In addition, there are monthly dashboards about implementation. Every two weeks there are project boards about projects and a programme board all over the program. Monthly reports are made on the planning, scope and budget, so that timely adjustments can be made. There is also a comprehensive risk management approach. The General Court was positive about the control of the programme. And of course lessons from the past are taken into account; periodic adjustments to moving insight are possible. There is also an active commitment to promoting support among the chain partners. I was allowed to visit spir-it myself. I suggest you do the same if that's what you like. You are very welcome there. I've seen how people do it there. I am impressed by this, because there is indeed the step-by-step approach, unlike when ICT projects were sometimes introduced as deus ex machina, but then not entirely satisfactory. Some of your members have rightly indicated this. Mr Ruers asked about the conclusions of Mr Bovend'Eert in the Ars Aequi. Of course, the article has a wide scope, because it deals with the administrative structure of the judicial organisation, management and displeasure of judges. That displeasure is a fact; I am worried about it too. I refer, like Mr Ruers, to the Counter-Light Survey. However, I do not think that there are looming errors in the system of the judicial organisation that we have made with each other. On this point, I can also quote one of the members of the Court of Justice, Mr Kees Strong, who also mentioned this in the NJB. I have promised the House of Representatives that after the summer recess I will come up with a letter following the article in the NJB of the members of the Council for Justice. That article asks for a broader consideration and consideration of the legal history, the financing system and the implementation practice. I would like to come back to that in detail. I will also send a copy of the letter to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u37	I'm glad to hear from the Minister that that information will come after the holiday. However, I also hear the Minister say that he does not get out of the Counter-Light Survey that there is a looming error in the system. I'll read that in a different way. When I look at that survey and at the last petition and when I speak with the judges I have spoken with many judges The judges experience a structural error. It's very serious. Let us be clear: it is a good thing that this government has achieved that, for the first time in Dutch history, the judiciary is about to rise up. Then you did something, didn't you? The most loyal and hardworking people within the government say the border has been reached. They use a lot harder words than I do. Then there's something structural going on, isn't there? You shouldn't say there's no looming error in it, because the judges do experience it that way. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u38	I have just said that it is a fact that there is unease. However, this does not mean that there is a looming error in the system, the organisation and the law. I also speak a lot with judges myself. It is a question of being uncomfortable with a number of developments. Sometimes there is also discussion between judges. By the way, many judges do not recognize themselves in this. Mr Ruers has probably also spoken to people who say: I have no problem with it at all, and: of course we have to work and I am happy to do my job day after day, and I will continue to do so. They're lucky, too, and there's a lot of them. Often it is also the case that some large groups do not make themselves heard because they see no reason to do so. In the meantime, however, there is certainly a clear mandate for the Council to take the observations made seriously and to discuss them. That is exactly what we are doing. I see that this is being properly taken up in the case-law Council where it belongs. I come to the block of implementation and implementation. Mrs Beuving and Mrs Strik asked a question about the experiments. I just said those experiments wouldn't start until 2017. That is not the case: the experimental clause makes voluntary experiments possible from the day these laws are published in the Official Journal. If the Chamber agrees, this will happen very soon. That would mean that we could experiment in civil law right away. That is important, because that gives us an extra six months to make a contribution to this on a voluntary basis, with those lawyers who like it, and very much want to get rid of that paper. In administrative law, as Mr Scheltema said, the system has been tested on a voluntary basis in more than 1,500 cases. A pilot will be launched at some dishes, which will be extended to the whole country. Experiences are mostly positive. In this way, we will also work in civil law. Mrs Beuving asked how the experiments relate to the idea that we will not start until the system works properly. That's an understandable question. The experiment is about volunteer digital working, for those who really want to. I think there'll be a lot of volunteers. The experiments are necessary to enable the obligation to enter into force. But that obligation can only come into effect once we have established that this can be done in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u39	The minister thinks that many people would like to participate voluntarily in that experiment. On what grounds do people do that? Have they been informed of the fact that it is not yet a fully tested system, so they are at risk from childhood diseases and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u40	Of course. That is exactly the basis on which this has taken place in administrative law. People knew exactly what they were getting into. I don't know exactly why every participant participates. Looking at my own experience I know that the Dutch lawyer is generally very well automated. Then the same lawyer has to do what she doesn't really want: print everything to send it to court. If you can do that by pressing the button via a reliable route, which makes sure that the information ends up in the right place, there is no one who doesn't want it. However, it is important that you make good agreements about any problems that should never be at the expense of those who seek justice. Those appointments are there. If anything goes wrong, it's never at the expense of the judge. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u41	May I infer from your answer that it is only matters that can voluntarily go along with the experimental phase and those where professional legal aid is involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u43	Natural persons who do want to sue digitally, can't participate voluntarily in the experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u44	I didn't think so, because that, as you will understand, would be too great a risk. After all, you submit to people who have no experience with it yet. Mrs Beuving also asked if there was sufficient testing. I have already answered that question: that is the case and will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u45	The venom was in the tail of that sentence. I asked if there was sufficient volume testing. The experimental phase, which takes place on a voluntary basis, will be smaller in size. Then a pilot followed in two courts, followed by the implementation of a business type all over the country at once. Is it possible that the system can be adequately tested in terms of volume?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u46	That is the starting point. Civilian trade claims will be launched. That's not about large volumes; that's what we've been looking at. Slowly the system will then be extended to the higher professions. Only civil 3.0 will work with more volume. The system will not run with larger volumes until it has worked long enough to do so. This is a very responsible way of working towards this introduction. Mrs. Strik asked why isn't testing a little longer in a fake environment before you do it with real business. Experience in administrative law shows that this works very well. This can, has proven administrative law, in a responsible way, and I think we are going to prove it again in civil law, on a voluntary basis. Mr Ruers asked about the direction of the judge. I told you it wouldn't change. This also means that the autonomy of the judge is in no way affected by the digitisation process. In fact, I think that the judge will have much more time to fulfil his autonomous role much better. Because dragging back and forth and checking files for completeness will no longer be necessary in the future. As a result, there will be more room for customization than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u47	Can I conclude from this that the automation system, which provides for all kinds of process steps, leaves enough room for judges to take a particular intermediate step that may not be common in that area? Is that customization really possible within the system? The system would become too leading to the choice of judges, so that judges would not be allowed the procedural or substantive decisions they wish to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u48	I've just agreed with the government commissioner. He confirms to me that that space is there. That is also essential. The system will allow judges to make those kinds of decisions easier for the simple reason that they don't have to worry about anything else anymore. Mrs Duthler asked how to ensure that the procedure is aligned with the individual details of the case. That question is a little along the lines of what Mrs Strik asked. Mrs Duthler probably meant the question a little more system-oriented. The system only facilitates, but certainly does not replace the role of the judge. The directing role of the judge is strengthened. It is precisely in order to be able to offer tailor-made solutions that a case judge is already attached to a case at an early stage. In order to ensure that the courts are not burdened too much, they are assisted by a director, who can take decisions in court. But of course the judge himself has the direction and he retains it. Mrs Strik rightly asked what happens when a natural person, not a digitized natural person, wishes access to justice. Is it possible to continue to sue on paper? Yes. The possibility of oral defence in canton proceedings also remains. There is therefore no change in this respect. Mr Backer asked whether an oral statement was sufficient. In administrative matters, I think Mr Backer knows that this is generally possible for some time now. This is also possible in a number of civil cases, as in the form of interim rulings. There will then be an oral ruling, which will then be recorded in writing. We extend these possibilities in the bill. The big advantage for parties is that they have immediate clarity about the outcome of their case. The judge may give an oral ruling, but it is not mandatory. The oral judgment shall then contain the decision and its grounds. She's always motivated by the judge. The judge will only give an oral ruling if that appears to be a matter for the oral procedure. That goes without saying, because that's the judge's directing role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u49	The Minister says that the judge will then make an oral ruling, which is a great advantage. The Minister is right to say that the oral judgment given at the hearing and communicated to the parties will then be confirmed in writing. But then there's almost no difference from the current situation. The judge's saying, "I'm gonna make a two or four-week verdict," isn't it? You'll get it in writing. Then what's the difference in time? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u50	There's one big difference: afterward, as a lawyer, you have to explain to your client again and again why, if he knows what he's going to do, that judge doesn't just tell the court what he's going to do. I've been through a lot of times that people ask: they know anyway; why don't they say so? Because it has to be written, I said. My clients generally said, "How old-fashioned is that?" This really is an innovation in order to ensure that the judge can, if it is possible, receive an answer to the question he is most concerned with, namely: what are you going to do with my case, Judge? That possibility is being created. Mr Backer asked for the assignment of evidence, for example, in the new system. This does not change anything compared to current practice. Witnesses and experts can be taken to the oral hearing, but if further evidence is needed, it is still possible. I do not think there should be any concern at that point. Mrs. Strik asked about privacy protection. In the construction of the digital system there is a lot of attention to privacy. This is guaranteed by technical provisions and regulations. A privacy framework has been established and this has also been submitted to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Only those involved in a case will have access to the documents in that case. In the case of secret documents, the other party's knowledge is limited or excluded. The case law organises a variety of activities every year to raise awareness of security and integrity. There is also an active programme of prevention and evaluation of possible security incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u51	I shall return to the oral ruling. I believe that the Commissioner for Government has just said that it is obvious that in complicated cases there will be no oral ruling and there will be a further change of documents. That point was also contained in the question I raised in the first term. Despite the attractive aspects of this, I think it might also be the case that the profits of the informality of the oral hearing lead to a lack of clarity about an important evidence mission or about important evidence elements. That would not be desirable. It would therefore not be effective for the proceedings to be terminated at the hearing, because then, of course, there will be an appeal later and it will be done. Can the Minister or the Commissioner for Government comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u52	With your permission, I would like to give the floor to the Government Commissioner, Mr Hammerstein, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u53	In civil cases, that oral judgment is only intended for simple cases where there is a high degree of urgency, so that the parties immediately know what to do in an interim action, which is now also the case for simple cases in which a particular order of procedure is agreed with the parties during the oral procedure. In the latter case, it is said that we are going to provide this evidence and we are going to ask for this information and those experts. It is not intended that the judge should say in a complicated case: I will give an oral ruling at that hearing. The fact that there are no restrictions in the law has to do with the fact that you cannot put the number of different things you are dealing with in a law. But no wise judge who sees that a written commitment needs to be considered is going to give an oral ruling. That also depends on the professionalism of the judge. A professional judge knows that in a particular case it is useful for the parties, while it should not be done if a case is complicated or if a real, precise evidence order is needed. Of course, the judge is more likely to have such freedom from a procedural point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u54	That's very enlightening. However, I hear from the case-law that the points that are assigned to them or the funding that is attached to them can play a role in the assessment. I hope the Commissioner agrees with me that this should not be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u55	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u56	Would you like to put your question to the Government Commissioner or the Minister, Mrs Duthler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u57	To the Minister. In his speech, the Minister was answering a question by Mrs Strik on privacy protection. I don't know if he was done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u59	The Minister mentioned a privacy framework. That went a little fast, but I don't really know what he means by that. In addition, I would like to know whether the Minister is still entitled to answer my question about the authorisation at organisational level rather than at individual level at the exit point. So these are actually two questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u60	I come without a doubt to Mrs Duthler's question on the level of authorisation. I hope that in the next block, the ICT block, I can go into that. As I understand it, the privacy framework is the basis established by the Council of Justice. It was then submitted to the Personal Data Authority, by the way, at the time known as the CBP, to assess whether this framework complies with all the laws and regulations necessary to implement this system in a careful manner. That is how I understood it, but if it is not, or if it is not, I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u61	The privacy framework states that the Data Protection Officer who was already working at the Judicial Board will play an important role in this. It seems to me that with this whole digitisation there will be a lot more questions in this area and that this official will have a greater role to play in monitoring, for example because there will be more complaints. Is the staff member's capacity and competence adjusted accordingly? Is that official adequately equipped to fulfil that role effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u62	With regard to the powers, of course, we will be working very closely on the implementation of the new data protection directive and the data protection regulation, in which this official has also been given a role and in which the whole framework is modernised. It is up to the Council of Justice to ensure that the person concerned is able to do his job properly. I assume so, but I will check it out in the second period just to be sure. Mrs. Strik asked about access to the digital system. How do externals get into that system? To gain access you have to have a DigiD if you are private or if you are a legal person, an administrative body or a bailiff. The lawyers can get access with their lawyer card. They have already gained a great deal of experience in many areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u63	Even through the stop point? I understand you're only coming to my courtroom with a lawyer's pass, but not to the courthouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u64	With that question, Mrs Duthler trumps me. I'll take it with me in the second term. I shall continue with my answer to the previous question. The General Measure of Management lays down requirements for the level of reliability of all these resources. This requires a two-factor authentication: a login name plus a password and a token or SMS code as a second factor. The courts shall determine by rules the means by which the parties may log in. Ms. Beuving asked if an employee or a lawyer's secretary could file documents in the digital system. In cases with mandatory procedural representation, procedural documents are still signed by a lawyer. That provision is not amended. That's what's happening now. In the case of digital litigation, the signature is made by submitting a document in the digital system using the lawyer card. The use of this card does not change either. The employee or secretary usually has an agent's pass. This makes it possible for the lawyer to authorise an employee or secretary to use the pass and submit a piece on his or her behalf. It is, of course, the case that the lawyer remains responsible for the submission of those documents and is also responsible for civil and disciplinary action in respect of the actions carried out by an employee on his behalf. Those practical problems, to which I believe the Dutch order of lawyers has also referred, have in principle simply been resolved. I come to Mrs Strik's question on the integrated approach including criminal law. It has been deliberately chosen to digitize criminal law in the chain as well. This is also the result of the very critical opinion that the General Court of Auditors, said in my mind in 2013, issued on the criminal justice chain and the fact that it showed that it did not really know where things were. It can't be. We said at the time: the only answer to this is digitalisation, and that must be done anyway. In the framework of KEI, research has been carried out on the digitisation of legal practice in other countries. Experience from law firms, tax authorities and banks, for example, has also been used throughout the system. Mrs. Duthler asked if there was a diversion facility outside the venue of the session. There is. In general, spir-it ensures that the data is double stored on separate servers. However, the alternate provision is based on the specific situation in which the system failed during the session. In that case, the file will soon be available. That's the thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u65	Are these separate servers located outside the courts? Are they in the same or separate buildings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u66	The government commissioner informs me that this is true. Mrs Duthler asked why the Connecting Point of Justice, look, there the question is not unlocked at individual level. In order to use the Connecting Point of Justice, a chain party, for example a law firm, must use authentication at organisational level, e.g. with the PKIState Certificate. The chain party works in its own system, which then automatically exchanges data with the digital system of justice. The chain partner must therefore comply with the requirements of the technical process rules and continue a journey before it can connect to the stop point. Part of this is to ensure adequate internal authorisation and compliance with privacy laws. I think that is why it is complicated to grant access to parties other than professionals in this way. Mr Ruers asked how delays would be overcome. There are currently only delays in some courts, not in the courts. Measures have been taken. I also refer to the parliamentary questions that I answered on 24 November 2015. These measures include a different, more efficient organisation of the work processes and an extension of the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u67	The Minister says that the delays are eliminated in this way and that there are no delays in courts. Now the Minister cannot know everything about everything that lies with the courts, but I know a court in the south where parties are waiting for a ruling from January 2015 until mid-year. The case in question was apprehended 18 times by the court. The lawyer involved wasn't me, but someone else submitted a complaint letter to the court. The court replied that he must follow the complaint procedure. The man did. The complaint procedure did not respond, although the complaint procedure indicated that the complaint would be answered within six weeks. This was the courthouse in the south. This is serious business, isn't it? I hope the Minister brings them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u68	We must distinguish between two concepts. On the one hand, this is the concept of "deficit" within the meaning of "a case that is not dealt with." There aren't any in court. The case referred to above is also formally dealt with. That does not mean that, on the other hand, there can be no delays during a plenary session. Those are two different elements. I recognize this last point from my old practice, but that is now more than ten years ago. I know that there has also been an enormous effort by the courts in general to ensure that matters are handled much faster and much more efficiently. Of course, I do not know the case. It is also very difficult to say on the basis of an individual case that there has been unreasonable delay. It may well have been an extremely complicated issue. Mr Rombouts asked how it was ensured that the digital system would succeed. I think it is very important that many Members have said that the Elias committee is learning. The phasing-in of the entry into force of digitalisation is very important. It's not a big scare, like I said. It is linked to existing government standards and resources, such as DigiD, eRecognization and the law pass. The system shall be built by means of such a method that it is always checked whether the building is suitable for judges and lawyers. That process has been going on for years. The system is tested and tested by sounding board groups of lawyers and bailiffs. Citizens are also invited to test the new system during civil panels. Moreover, the digital system is built by the ICT company of justice. Gateway Reviews are performed for each release. Again, the question "are we ready to go into the next phase?'. Mr Rombouts asked me how I got the confidence that ICT is going well this time. Precisely because the system is built up phase by phase, with all these tests, the sounding board groups, tests, experimental tests and exercises, important conditions are created. I also pointed out the Gateway Reviews. At the moment, people are already being trained to work with it. The legislative changes are therefore also being prepared. They are already actively working on this. That is why it is very important that we come to these laws together. Mrs. Duthler asked about the emergency channel over the phone. The emergency channel consists of contacting a judicial officer by telephone. A party, lawyer or other legal aid provider shall then be instructed on how best to file the procedural documents if the system would not function unexpectedly. Eventually, that could be by courier. That option explicitly discussed the caselaw with the Dutch order of lawyers. My impression is that the order could agree with that. Mrs Duthler rightly asked what would happen if deadlines were to expire. For this purpose, conditions are laid down in the General Measure of Governance, on which the Council of State has now advised. On the basis of the scheme in this AMvB, the parties may rely on an additional working day to carry out their proceedings after the failure has been remedied and they were or could have been aware of it. De facto, time-limits are thus shifted and extended. Mrs Duthler asked about the duty of proof in the late filing of documents due to a malfunction. The party who is late in submitting documents due to a technical malfunction or a power failure must itself rely on that additional day and report the malfunction, unless it is a failure on the part of the case-law, because then it is obvious. For a party it will not usually be difficult to establish a malfunction in the system of case law because the case law itself maintains and discloses faults. If necessary, a party may also request evidence of the malfunction in the case-law if discussion arises. Many general faults with providers or power failures are also reported, for example on the website power failures.nl. The party may also request information from the power supplier or the provider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u69	If a lawyer's own system has been hacked, for example his own server, how is he supposed to provide evidence? It is therefore a system failure at the individual level of an individual office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u70	That would be such a serious breach of a lawyer's confidentiality obligation that you have to establish that the lawyer concerned has not adequately protected himself against the danger of hackers. I would point out that an infringement of a law firm's server would constitute an extremely serious breach of a lawyer's confidentiality obligation. I also know that all law firms are making every effort to ensure that security is in order and that they do not run any risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u71	There is no such thing as absolute security. It could happen. A hack can take place. What does an office, a lawyer have to do to prove that such a hack took place? Can a lawyer call the registry and report his system has been hacked? Or does he have to provide proof of an auditor reporting the malfunction? What am I supposed to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u72	I'm just trying to imagine what the situation would be if a lawyer accidentally forgot to send the case file, if he gives an empty box or a box of unfilled files to the courier or if he doesn't file the case at all. That's a normal time limit. It falls within his own responsibility, just as a hack on his own server also falls within his own responsibility. To be honest, I do not think that this is a reason to come to the conclusion that this should be borne by the case-law. I think this is really something between the lawyer and his client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u73	So the lawyer just has to make good general terms and conditions in which he puts off these kinds of risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u74	That would be good advice. If Mrs Duthler knows people who advise lawyers on software, she might also be able to make a suggestion in that direction. Mr Ruers asked about the problem of the failure of justice. I've refreshed my memory by now. The malfunction was caused by the partial malfunction of one of the central network components. These components are the central nodes of the justice network. All the IT traffic of the dishes goes through here. The failure should have been detected, but the reserve system was not automatically activated because there was no complete failure, as I said to Mrs Duthler. To force this, the central network component is switched off manually soon after the problem has been identified. This only did not lead to the desired result because the systems were then confronted with a disruption in the internal data communication of the justice accounting centre. As a result, users still experienced inconveniences, including with regard to the application for digital litigation. In addition, several older primary systems did not work properly with the spare system. Solving these follow-up problems required a cautious and therefore time-consuming recovery scenario. Eventually, all systems functioned one day later, at 0.45, so that is not a day later, but in the night that followed the day the problem arose. That solved the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u75	I'm sorry, but I probably missed the Minister's first sentence. What did the interference start with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u76	The partially inadequate functioning of one of the central network components, which you call in your terms "instability." Mr Backer asked about the funding: what are the most recent insights into the finances of the KEI project? First of all, I would like to say something about the own funds of justice. The suggestion has been made, by chance, even earlier, in the debate in the Lower House...... that the Council would no longer have own funds for the case-law. Sometimes people even say that justice goes bankrupt. The good news is that at the moment there is a sound buffer of justice. By the end of 2014, equity was 23 million. In 2015, the year ended positively, unlike expected, and the capacity grew to 24 million. It is also good to note that, with regard to the savings expected with the KEI project, the case-law itself has indicated that one wants to complete the efficiency mission of the cabinet with the KEI project. Thus, it was not the cabinet that linked a savings programme to the KEI project, but when the business case was recalibrated in December 2014, there was a much better understanding of what investments are needed, such as investment in the organisation and culture. In part, the increase in costs could be absorbed within the own budget. The costs and benefits of that business case are still current. Mrs. Duthler asked for an update of the business case. It is planned for the second half of this year. Precisely because the financial position of the case-law got tighter, I remember the debate on this with this Chamber in the autumn of 2016.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u77	You will mean 2015, because autumn 2016 is yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u78	Yes, in autumn 2015, I added 20 million extra resources to the Justice Council to finance the KEI project. In the following years, 25 million has been added to the budget structurally in order to have properly financed the KEI project. Indeed, I am now negotiating with the Council for the case-law on a price agreement for the period 2017-2019. The financing of the KEI programme is another part of this. I can't anticipate that. Mr Rombouts asked if I could give a hint of the veil. Perhaps that will also be asked in this Chamber tonight. The answer will then be no different than now: no, I cannot do that; for that to be patient, up to the Millions note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u79	I have two questions. How can you make us feel that this ICT operation is not going to fail? I think you have addressed this by pointing out the sound approach and the phase-by-stage introduction. However, it remains that we have had a lot of disasters where it became incredibly much more expensive than was expected at the beginning. How do you think you're gonna guard that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u80	That is what the Council is responsible for monitoring the case-law. The Court of Justice has an own funds from which these investments may be made. You know how the system works: if the Council of Ministers were to fall through its own resources, that would end with me, with a problem in the budget that I will have to solve. Let me point out, however, that this situation cannot in fact arise with regard to the problem of the software system, because it will only be decided if the Council has sufficient guarantees of justice and can convince me that the system is working properly, as I have already said to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u81	I think I have made a contribution which may give you the feeling that we are going to support this story, but I have heard a few things during the debate. Colleagues make new demands, even more conditions, and seek even more quality assurance. That's not all for nothing. I have heard you say that at the end you are the burden resort to help the Council for justice. Well, that's kind of like an open door. I just wanted to get the feeling that this process is going to work and not get out of hand financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u82	My indications are that the way in which the Council has done this before the Court of Justice is very careful and well aligned with the chain partners, who, of course, also occasionally agree with this. I have already said that the Dutch order of lawyers still has concerns on a number of points. They need to be taken away. It is up to the Council of Justice to do so. I think I can reassure Mr Rombouts: if we continue with the careful process set out by the Council of Ministers for Justice, it is my belief that the best chance is that this system will simply do what it has to do. However, we will not introduce it until we are convinced of it; that is very important. Mrs Duthler asked what would be going on if there were no financial resources at all available to the Court of Justice, for example because own funds would have been fully spent. Then it's very simple: like I said, the rule is that I'm supposed to supplement that equity. That will have to be done. Mrs Beuving asked whether the investments of the KEI project were already in cost. In fact, I have just confirmed that. I have also indicated what additional resources we have provided to the judiciary: 20 million for 2016 and 25 million structurally for the years after 2016, i.e. 2017, 2018 and beyond. In addition, the costs of modernising the case-law, including the KEI project, are partly included in the Council's budget for the case-law and the courts. The budgets of the case-law itself therefore also provide for the cost to be covered, but that was not enough. That is why I have added additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u83	Actually, it wasn't a question of mine about that cost. How do I put it? I expressed my surprise and almost indignation, because I understood that here on 15 December was also exchanged in the budget debate that this was not included in the cost, in the sense that there was no additional funding for it, but that it remained in the reasoning: take it out of the cost and if that is not possible, there is always a reserve. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u84	No, thank God it's not like that. For 2014 to 2016, so in previous years, my predecessor raised 26.5 million a year for three things: the balance between work pressure and quality, friction costs and investment in the KEI project. In addition to this, the 2016 budget added 20 million for 2016. For the years 2017 and beyond, 25 million has been added structurally for the KEI project. That is how we exchanged it here in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u85	However, I understood from the President-in-Office of the Council at various points in discussions with the committee, including in the autumn, that this is not cost-effective in the sense that no additional funds have been allocated for it. The cost thus includes a general component for innovation, modernisation and so on, as it has always been. However, with such a large, important and critical project under way, this has not led to additional resources. In addition, I would like to tell the Minister that we have explicitly understood from the Council of Justice, even very recently, that the red figures are expected to be included. Every time I hear the Minister say this, it actually sounds so positive that I may not be flying a flag yet, but I think I'm going to be okay. When I read the documents on what has been exchanged with the Council of Ministers for Justice or when we have the Council for Justice at the table, I do not understand at all how we have been able to choose this type of financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u86	The system of financing is as it is. We are going to look again in the autumn at whether it could be done in another way, also in the light of the observations made by the General Court, but also, for example, in relation to the article in the NJB. Mrs Beuving is quite right: in the Council's budget for justice there is an amount for innovation. That's what KEI's supposed to do. Only, we found last year that's not enough. In order to remove that problem, we added 20 million and later 25 million structurally, so that the council is able to do the project. If that is not enough, then there is the equity. I would remind you that the Chamber has probably once again discussed the concerns with my predecessor. Last year, the Council said that we will have to make up all our own funds for 2015, because we are not going to make it. The reality was different: the Council added EUR 1 million to the reserve, because there was a positive result. We must therefore note that in this particular case, for this particular year, the doom scenario on which the Council said it was deeply concerned has fortunately not occurred. On balance, the own reserve of 24 million may also be used for this purpose, knowing that in 2018, if the system operates, additional savings will be possible by making an efficiency impact, the proceeds of which, of course, will in principle benefit justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u87	I agree with Mr Beuving's questions. The optimism of the Minister is contagious, but I still read in the note following the final report that project funding does not fit in with the system. So what's the title of the 20 million and the 25 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u88	That title has been added for the KEI project. The judiciary thus has the opportunity to finance these activities out of that additional amount. If that is not enough, then there is the equity that can be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u89	Then it's a bit of a word game about whether or not project funding is involved. The money is available for it, the Minister says. I understand the Minister has every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u90	I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u91	All the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u92	Fortunately, we also have own funds, in case that confidence would not be right. However, I would also point out that it is not appropriate for me as a minister to have too much say in the Council's budget for justice, because if I had it, it would strictly affect the independence of the judiciary. Mr Backer knows the Council for Justice: it is well placed to ensure that this does not happen. We have examined, also in the light of the Council's comments, what extra needed to be done. We added that: 20 million for this year and 25 million for the years after. I attach the same importance to this project as Mr Backer, because it is very important for access to justice. Mr Rombouts has asked me further questions about funding. I answered it. Mrs Strik asked if KEI would make any immediate savings. I just said the same thing. No, it won't. Of course not, because it's gonna be a while before it's successful. However, the first savings are expected in 2018. From 2019 onwards, the full target savings will be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u93	I had also asked for the justification of that saving. Mr Ruers has also asked for this. I also asked if 2018 is still real, given a number of further temporalisations of the project. But most of all, I want to know what the basis for that entry is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u94	The justification is that a lot of manual work is no longer required as a result of the digitisation of the work processes. There are now at the dishes, I have seen it, not too long ago, myself at the court in Utrecht, dozens of people doing only one thing: going through the building with files, copying or sometimes scanning files, then sometimes printing them again and re-binding them and driving them through the building again. All that work won't be necessary anymore. This, of course, brings an efficiency advantage. This is the case with every digitisation process. By the way, I note that we have agreed, both with the First Chamber and with the Second Chamber, that the members will be informed in the interim if there are substantial financial changes at KEI. We will do the same during the roll-out of the project. So if there is anything that we see as a substantial change, then we will also inform the Upper House of that. Mrs Duthler asked about DigiD at the stop point instead of the web portal. The termination date is only for organisations, like all law firms. These authenticate themselves at organizational level through the certificate I was talking about with the Chamber. Citizens use DigiD and log in to the portal. After obtaining the certificate you are recognized as a reliable party and you no longer need to log in with DigiD. So you're off the login problem at once, regardless of the security systems. All servers are outside the dishes. There are two servers where the backups are stored, in Groningen, in a secure location. Ms. Duthler asked about the business case at the end of 2014. The first business case was in June 2013 and had the character of a first inventory. The review of December 2014 provides a better and more comprehensive understanding of the costs associated with the programme. The scope is now also considerably widened: Punishment, eKanton and Supervision are also included. The Board has chosen to carry out the development on its own. As a result, the Board, in its own words, has a better understanding of the necessary ICT investments. KEI is, of course, much more than just ICT. KEI is also part of the new approach. That is why local implementation teams are working with them for three years. These are also included in the 2014 business case. The central project team has been strengthened. Furthermore, the cost of work-to-work guidance has been mapped out. These are also included in that business case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u95	My specific question was whether there is now a re-examined business case. The Minister is talking about 2014. We are now in 2016. Does the Minister have any figures for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u96	I think I just answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u97	Because the Minister spoke about 2014, I was put on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u98	What I'm talking about right now is 2014. The recalibrate is coming this fall. Then, of course, the Chamber will be aware of that. Mr Ruers asked about the 10% loss of capacity. This concerns a comment from the RIP report. In theory, loss of capacity means, for the case-law, that the costs go through, against which there is no revenue from the financing of output. I have no signals that this would be the case in the full breadth of justice. The Council did not send a signal to me on this either. I come to the final point: implementation. Mr Backer specifically asked for this. I also said it in my introduction, but let me repeat it: it is essential that implementation is assured that the system will work as it should. That is why we also have this whole line of experimental provisions, sounding board groups and alignment with future users. I believe that justice is very aware of this. Moreover, he deals with this very carefully. The case law works closely with all those parties. There are very regular consultations, including with the bailiffs. The collaboration also alternates per release, depending on future users. Lawyers have been involved in testing for years and participate in various working groups which discuss the development of the system and the wishes of users. There is a broad involvement of a wide circle of advisors. I have already informed the Chamber about the safeguards for implementation. The system is tested in all possible ways on different elements, both internally and externally. This is done, among other things, by independent experts. The chain partners are also closely involved in testing. They are also consulted on the decision whether or not to proceed to further implementation. The "go/no go" criteria are partly based on the technique and partly on the use of the system, including user-friendliness for both internal and external users. Satisfaction is determined by user acceptance tests, citizen panels and the like. If the user experience is not sufficient, the "go" criteria are not met and implementation cannot start. I believe that there are sufficient safeguards in this way, which can be involved in the decision on the entry into force of the legislation. As I said to Mr Backer, I also see a role for myself in this if the opinions were not to be similar. I do not expect that to happen, but if so, I see a role for myself on that point. I can also, of course, be advised externally on the ICT aspects. Mr Rombouts asked: would it be an idea to extend the implementation period to nine months already? I don't want to do that. We have clearly agreed that it is at least six months. If there is reason to extend it to nine months, or no matter how many months, then there is this possibility, because the system will not be put into effect if it is not guaranteed that it is possible with as little risk as possible. I think I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber. I feel that there is broad support for the legislative proposals as they stand. I hope I have been able to overcome the concerns about implementation and the way it is designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u99	A short suspension has been requested by Mr Ruers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u100	We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u101	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister and the two government commissioners very much for the comprehensive response, which was not only extensive, but also confidence-building. The CDA Group trusts that in the course of the implementation process there will still be sufficient consultations and benchmarks to resolve any bottlenecks and concerns of the parties. The Minister said that extending the implementation period to nine months should not be done in advance, but can always be done if necessary. He's willing to do that. I have noted his willingness to act as an ultimum mediator and ultimum safety net for that consultation between the parties. 'Then we should do it', I say on behalf of our group. Government is forward-looking and no longer forward-sliding and delaying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u102	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would also like to thank the Minister and the Commissioners of Government. Secondly, I would like to focus on the central issue that has been raised, along with many other issues: the risk of introduction. The Minister has gone into this in detail and has been very pleased with us, because these were concerns that were widely shared in this Chamber. I've also been thinking about the point of paradigm change. In the paper age, petitioners and recipients of documents, courts and lawyers were equal. Not much has changed in the fax age. There was a central organization that made sure they were sent and received. In this digital age, however, it is the system administrator and the court, and above that the Council of Justice, that decide how they want to do it. There is an additional point and an additional reason why I have so urged the Minister to indicate that he is open to other chain partners playing a role in this. I have also looked at Article 93 RO. It is not the case that the Minister is powerless in it. He knew that, of course, because he can give general guidance on the performance of the Council's task. In my opinion, if they are council duties and third party opinions are included, they relate well to the law. I'd like to hear the Minister confirm this. In the end, the Minister is responsible and he is called upon to do so. I would like to dwell on a point of the system and a point that has not been raised both orally and in writing: the system must ultimately have the functions that are appropriate for the Civil Procedure Code as a whole. I would like to point out, for example, that the large offices have brought about that a new case cannot be introduced into the current system only temporarily in connection with the connection point, the application of Article 112 of the new law pursuant to legal provision. This will have to be provided for, because these are not only common issues, they are a regular route. I expect the Minister to agree with me on that point. If not, I'd like to hear it from him. I'm getting to the point of the experimental article. For the sake of completeness, we are talking about articles CIX and CX of 34059. It states that a derogation from the obligation may be made on a voluntary basis. On what basis could this Chamber base itself on keeping its finger on that? I'll get to the instructions for the regulation. Note 10b states that the legislation providing the basis for an experimental scheme determines the maximum duration. The explanatory memorandum shall specify how the evaluation of that scheme is to be carried out. The explanation of that second paragraph states in the designation of the rules: an obvious guarantee is that citizens directly involved in the experiment can express their views on the desirability of converting the experiment into a final arrangement in good time before the end of the experiment. So also in the direction of regulation, the path to which the minister first reluctantly wants to proceed, but ultimately hastily: hearing from all chain partners. Then we are talking about the NOVA, the Dutch Association for Justice and other parties, such as the bailiffs and probably also the ICT experts. Finally, I come to equivalence in the courtroom, a point of the ECHR that has just been raised. Mr Strik also mentioned it. In the old era, it was enough in the courtroom if there was a clean shaking and a toga, but now there will have to be Wi-Fi available. If the judges are behind the scenes, I hope for them that they are two screens, but I do not think that this house should look at such details. There is a lot to be said about this: there is an effort and so on, and so on. I would like the Minister's firm commitment that at some point this is really all right. Finally, I think that at some point there will be consensus on the final terms of the project, at the various stages and in the roll-out. I don't like that word, "roll out," but apparently it's part of it. The Minister gives guarantees. He does not want a committee but another gremium; so be it, as long as there are guarantees. I have listened to them, and also the Minister's intention, and I think that is sufficiently documented. It would be entirely in line with the regulatory designation if the results were communicated to this Chamber on the occasion of a subsequent step. I will advise my group on this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u103	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and both government commissioners for their first-term responses. My group has already stated at first reading that it welcomes the digitisation of legal traffic. In order to embrace both legislative proposals, the VVD Group needs even clearer answers and commitments. I'll start with the topic of system thinking versus individual business thinking. The Government Commissioner has stated that KEI is system-supporting and not system-defining. This applies to the ICT part of KEI, the digital litigation itself. It's a good thing it's marked again. But what about the shift in direction? The Minister has indicated that the judge of the case keeps the last word, but is assisted by a director. That's not a judge. That director, that employee, is following the national process guidelines. He won't be able to deviate from that soon. However, in individual cases it will be necessary or desirable for this to happen, for example when a settlement is close and a director says: no, I am sorry, but we are not going to extend that deadline. Then how do you get past that director as a seeker? Then how do you end up with that case judge? 'Cause he's got the last word. How did you get there? Perhaps the Minister could say a little more about the privacy framework, following an answer to a question from Mrs Strik. I understood the role of the FG, the Data Protection Officer, well, but frankly I didn't quite understand what the Minister meant by the Privacy Framework, what it says and what its function, its role is. Of course, it's nice that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is going to find something of that. I'm also looking forward to it, but I'd like to know more about what's in that privacy framework and its role and function. I'm also a little lost when it comes to the system malfunction. I just need to look up what the Minister said about that... yes, it was the instability of the network components. Honestly, that doesn't mean much to me. Can the Minister be any clearer? There's going to be an investigation, I believe. It is absolutely necessary to take the time to do so, but what was the instability of the network components? Was it software? Was it on the clutch plane? Didn't the Internet do it? Was the server out? Will the Minister give a concrete answer to the questions raised by my group and the SP Group? The same applies to the procedural acts. They can be carried out both through My Justice and through the terminal. Can the stop point be unlocked at an individual level or not? Can this be done only at organisational level or can it be done at individual level? Preferably, this only happens on an individual level. If that is not possible at the present time, does the Minister envisage a timetable at which this can be done on an individual level? I'd like a concrete answer. The funding has also been discussed by many colleagues. The Minister has already added 20 million extra in 2016 and another 25 million additional structuralally for the years after. The business case we talked about earlier showed a cost increase of 147 million. These amounts are not really comparable: 20 million and 25 million on the one hand and 147 million in additional costs on the other. The Minister indicated that, once the Council's own resources have been exhausted for the purposes of the case-law, he would supplement it. Will he promise this Chamber that he will indeed do so? Maybe he did that in the first term, but then I didn't notice it well enough. Maybe I was thinking somewhere else for a while. I would like the Minister to give me a concrete undertaking that he will supplement the Council's own funds for justice when the money runs out. My final point is the taking of evidence in the case of a hack or any other cause that puts the system of an individual law firm out and is not available. It's kind of lame to say that this is at the risk of the lawyer or the law firm. Why is it that the deadline is not extended by the number of days that the malfunction lasts? What the lawyer needs is clarity; about the consequences for the deadlines but also about the way in which the lawyer has to prove this. Can he or she be satisfied with a phone call or should he or she provide additional documents in support? If so, which ones should they be? I would also like to receive a concrete answer from the Minister. I imagine he'll take care of that in an AMvB if necessary. These were my afterburners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u104	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and both government commissioners for their careful and enlightening answers. For example, Mr Hammerstein has given us a confidence-building statement on the support and non-decisiveness of the system. In any case where the judge considers it desirable, he may deviate from the standard and deliver customization, I understand. Professor Scheltema has described these legislative proposals nicely as: appropriate in a responsive rule of law. The fact that these legislative proposals meet the wishes and needs of the citizen, the judge, with quicker and simpler litigation, is of great importance to my group. The Minister has answered my questions about implementation and the experimental phase with satisfaction. Only my question about the equipment of the legal profession in the courtroom has not been answered. It is a reasonable question of detail; I admit that, but still. I'd still like to get an answer to that. The issue of finance has proved to be the most difficult one. It is too crazy for words to want to finance such a large, important and far-reaching project as KEI from the current operation. The current operation of the Court of Justice clearly does not allow for this, so it must be financed from the reserves of the Court of Justice. However, I am a little less reluctant than my colleague, Mr Duthler, the Minister, has just promised that he will make up for the shortcomings that result from the judicial process. He also undertook to reconsider the financing system in the autumn. With these commitments in mind, I expect to be able to give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposals before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u105	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the government commissioners for their comprehensive response. The implementation process and its care were central to the discussion of these legislative proposals. I think that the Minister has said quite convincingly that it will indeed be careful, that it will go step by step and that the Minister himself as a system manager will ensure that every step, every go/no go decision, is adequately supported by all chain partners. We'll be happy to hold him to that. We would like to be able to see from a distance that this is actually happening, because there are still few guarantees in the system itself. Everyone must be able to give an opinion or to enter the next stage, but what is the guarantee and what importance is attached to these opinions? In the discussions we had, we noticed that, for example, the NSA did not even know the criteria by which "go/no go" would be determined. I found that rather disturbing. Within the judiciary itself you can also hear different appreciations of whether the implementation process can go a step further. I urge the Minister to look very clearly at the basis of such a decision by the Council in the field of justice, especially what all chain partners have found. I would like the opinion of the NVvR to be sought within the judiciary, and not just that of the Council of Justice, so that we can really see that it is adequately supported within the judiciary itself. The Minister has already promised that we will be sent this information when such a KB is struck, so that we can see it. With regard to standardisation, I have noted that there is always sufficient room for tailor-made work and that this is part of the independence of the judiciary. I hope that judges will be able to build on this commitment and their way of working on it, but that it will also be a signal to the administration that they will not make the system lead. For me, it is not entirely clear whether there is sufficient funding for KEI or not, even though Mrs Beuving said it was not financed separately. We understand that the Council has said that it will not have sufficient resources for the implementation of KEI in the near future. For this year there is €20 million, for the coming years €25 million. There is a negotiation going on now, but it is about next year's budget. Is there really enough money for 2016 to shape implementation in a good way? I would like a precise answer from the Minister. Then I come to privacy and the Data Protection Officer. I still get an answer to my question as to whether capacity will grow with the size of the task, which will undoubtedly grow. The Minister said that lawyers only have access under certain conditions. Within the judiciary, of course, it must be strictly regulated which employee may actually have access. There must be a good reason and a limited purpose. Finally, my final point. I've drawn attention to accessibility. The documents already said that paper files remain accessible to natural persons. My question focused on the longer term. Is this gonna stay like this? I hope it's not a temporary parallel process. I also asked what the cabinet's view is on the introduction of the digital government and the accessibility guarantees for citizens, for example, who are digibeet or illiterate or who can at least be less involved in technology. I have the impression that it is being dealt with in a different way in several areas, so I would like to ask you once again to explain a vision or to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u106	Mr. Chairman. Like the others, I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Hammerstein and Mr Scheltema for their explanations and contributions. They were enlightening and useful. I learned a lot today. It's always nice to be able to say that. I shall begin with Mr Hammerstein's explanation of the tension that he felt there was from the beginning between the administration and the freedom of the judge, the autonomy of the judge and the role of the judge. I do believe that this will always be a problem. With each organization you keep that and certainly with an organization where we are dealing with the judge as part of the trias politician, an independent judge who must be free from the influences of the other parts of the trias politician. We're not talking about just a company. It is a company that deals with the basis of the rule of law. Former President Corstens of the Supreme Court made a comment on this last year. He said: justice must cost money and justice is not a cookie factory. I think it's important that that be seen properly. We are talking about justice and not about anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u107	I support Mr Ruers in this, but I would advise him not to use the word 'company'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u108	That's what I'm doing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u109	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u110	Thank you for this correction. That's how you see it: you learn all the time. I liked what Mr Hammerstein said about that tension field. I would have responded to it then, but it is a matter I would like to put to the Minister, because I think his analysis is correct. But what do we see in practice? In this field of tension, where the role and autonomy of the judge is concerned, there is continuous influence of the administration, but also of funding. It's all messed up. You can't let that go. Judges are right to complain about that. We have seen this at the Leeuwarder manifesto and in the survey of Counter-Light. Judges feel trapped. When the case law is under pressure, the case law is also under pressure for the citizens. We will then have worse justice and the foundations of our democratic rule of law will be undermined. We shouldn't want that, should we? I have recently heard that the current demand for production and the coercion on the courts have already resulted in far fewer orders of evidence in judgments of judges. I believe Professor Assman did that research. There will be considerably more evidence assignments, and that can only be explained by the fact that the judges feel pressured and do not have the space they would like to have to deliver good judgements, customization. That's how sensitive it is. I would like to hear whether the Minister recognizes and recognises that there is a threat of a violation of the rule of law, or perhaps has already arisen if the judge no longer has his autonomy and direction because of the administrative and financial pressure. I noted that there is expected to be 10% capacity loss after KEI roll-out. The Minister responded and briefly said that he was not. Now I am assuming that in the round tables we had in the Chamber a few weeks ago, I heard that the President of the Council said so for the sake of justice. Now it may be that the Minister does not know that, but one of those two views, that of the President of the Council for Justice or that of the Minister, is not correct. They are diametrically opposed; that is not possible. I'd like to hear how to solve that, and I think the Minister can answer that. Finally, I think there are a lot of uncertainties about the story we have heard today. You can choose two sides. You can say, as Mr Rombouts said, let us take the step and see how it is resolved in practice. You can say the other way around: be a little more careful. For the time being, I'm choosing caution as the mother of the porcelain cabinet. Let's temporize something and be careful. We are dealing with a valuable asset and it must be put on the market very well. I will advise my group on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u111	He's gonna put it in the market, yeah. Thank you very much, Mr Ruers. The Minister is able to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u112	Mr. Chairman. Could I make the same procedural comment as before, namely that I would like to ask for the opportunity for Mr Hammerstein to answer one question? Then I'll answer the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u113	That's okay. I call Mr Hammerstein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u114	Mr. Chairman. I can reassure Mrs Duthler: the problem of the judge and support in relation to decision-making now also exists. I don't know how long I've been a role counselor: the clerk decided on all standard cases and the roller counselor did it himself. That will be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u115	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u116	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for their comments in the second term. Mr Backer referred to Article 93 of the RO Act. This gives the Minister the opportunity to give a general indication. This is linked to Article 91 of the RO Act, which lists, among other things, automation, under which such designation may be possible, unless it is contrary to Article 109 of the RO Act. That provision says that a minister should not interfere with matters of substance, as I say in general terms. A minister could, therefore, give a general indication if this is necessary for the proper running of the business. I'm committed to noticing that this has never happened before. I also know why. However you turn it or turn it around, such an indication is a very strong step in the relationship between the Council for Justice as an independent body responsible for justice and the Minister. In a sense, it's the same as a clue to the state's attorney's office. Therefore, I do not think it will be necessary, because the Minister ultimately decides on entry into service, and not on the case-law. So I think we agree on that point. I can reassure Mr Backer and Mrs Beuving that there will be Wi-Fi in court. Of course, it will meet the capacity needed to support this process. The same applies, of course, to the legal profession. Mrs. Duthler asked about the exact cause of the malfunction. I have more information on that. Part of the server, the so-called switch, was broken. The problem arose, as I explained, because the other server, the emergency device, did not take over at the time. An analysis is under way and measures will be taken to avoid these problems in the future. Mrs. Duthler asked what the privacy framework is. That is the term used by the Council in the case-law for the privacy impact assessment. This was carried out in the context of the preparation of the General Measure of Governance. This concerns the impact of digital traffic with the judge. Mrs Duthler, Mrs Strik and Mrs Beuving asked about the finances. I can reassure Mrs Duthler and Mrs Beuving: under Article 17 (6) of the Financing Decision, the Minister has an obligation to supplement the Council's own funds for the case-law if at some point there is no longer any evidence. So that is simply a regulatory obligation. There's no choice. It was asked whether there were sufficient funds for 2016. I've already talked about that in detail. In the years 2014 to 2016, an additional €26.5 million per year was made available to the Judicial Council, which could, among other things, be devoted to KEI. On top of that, 20 million has been added to the KEI budget for 2016. On top of that, I have provided KEI with 25 million structuralally for 2017 and next years. Of course, it is not excluded that a further step will be taken in the context of the price negotiations for 2017-2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u117	Can the Minister then tell me whether it is right that the Council of Ministers has indicated in its case-law that in the near future there will be insufficient resources for implementation? If yes, is this 2016 or only next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u118	I don't have the readiness to do so as early as 2016. The clue I just received is a little too complicated. I'm gonna ask for that one...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u119	There'll be a note soon, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u120	Yeah, I'm sure there's a note coming my way to say something about that. Let me add one thing. I have already made it clear that if the council did not come out, its own funds of 24 million would be available to deal with any setbacks. On top of that, there is also the equalization reserve, but we will probably talk about that tonight. I would like to say a few words in the direction of Mrs Duthler. I fully understand her idea that it is very sad when a hack in a lawyer's server leads to problems with the delivery of procedural documents within the right time limits. First of all, I would like to point out that nowhere in the law does it say that you have to file your procedural documents only on the last day for which the time limit applies. Secondly, there is established case law of the Supreme Court, which Mrs Duthler also knows, that lawyers themselves are responsible for the fact that, for example, mail items are received by the court on the right day and at the right time. That's no different with a hack on a lawyer's server itself. The lawyer has the possibility to submit documents on paper and to use the so-called "rail change" contained in the law, whereby he can switch from paper to digital or vice versa. However, I think that we should stick to the idea that only failures in justice and in the provision of services can be a reason for being too late to be changeable. In all other cases, there is simply a delay, as is the case today. There is no difference in the treatment of lawyers in the current system, also endorsed by the Supreme Court, and in the future. I can also say that if this were any different, any term delay that a lawyer must naturally prevent is suddenly connected to a server problem. That's how real we have to be with each other. It would then be up to the case-law to examine whether that argument is correct. But that is not the case now. If a lawyer sends a courier to a wrong address, he hasn't delivered documents or doesn't post a letter at the right time or doesn't post it, that's his responsibility. I don't think anyone's against that either. I have received another question from Mrs Duthler about the stop point. Let's see, that's pretty technical. It may also go a little far to expect that, in the context of the legal process, I know exactly how the connecting points work individually or not. As I have already said, there can only be a stop point at organisational level with a certificate. If that were to be changed, a stop point would no longer be of interest to the chain partners, as there would be no automated system available. That would mean the same thing as individually logging in to My Cause. The organisations themselves comply with the privacy regulations, internally and within their own organisation. In the context of the exit point, there is a fully automatic exchange of documents. This is different from uploading through the web portal that is available to individuals. That's why there's a difference. Mrs Strik asked me about the cabinet's vision of the digitised citizen. I believe that Mrs Strik attaches a great deal of responsibility to me. I'm responsible for almost everything, but I'm not. It is important, however, that we have, of course, taken into account in this legislative proposal the fact that there are citizens who are indicting without a lawyer and that there are also people who probably do not yet have sufficient experience or access to the Internet or other digital means. That is why the law states that it is possible to continue to file documents on paper. The law cannot be amended without the permission of the Chamber, so that guarantee is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u121	I think it's a bit of a thin answer. Isn't the Minister speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet? The entire cabinet indicated that it wants to have a digital government in 2017. Then the Minister could ask whether, regardless of the policy area, there is a consistent view of accessibility for citizens who are digitised or not? Is there that vision? I have already offered the Minister a way out of this by saying that he does not need to explain it now, but that he can do so later. I can expect the government to have any ideas about it, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u122	There is no doubt that the government has a lot of ideas about this. I haven't talked to my colleagues about it myself recently. I therefore do not feel free to say anything about it in a general sense. Digitisation within government and between government and citizens is a theme that returns in many areas. In the context of this debate, I am not going to commit myself to taking the responsibility for getting the vision of the cabinet. Mrs Strik should not blame me for that. We are now talking about a concrete legislative proposal that looks at the digitisation of the judicial process in both administrative and civil law. Mrs Strik and I have noted that we are concerned about people who have less access to digital systems. We have an adequate solution for that. I think this should be enough for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u123	The underlying question is not so much what the vision is, but whether the government has a vision of the accessibility of the digital government. That's not such a difficult question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u124	I think 25 parts of that vision have been sent over the past year. Mr Plasterk spoke to the Chamber about the digitisation of DigiD. Not too long ago, I sent a cabinet response on big data in response to a report from the WRR. We're working on it all the time. However, in the context of this debate, I am not going to provide Mrs Strik with a kaleidoscope to resolve the problem of digitalisation. I'm not gonna promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u125	Then I note that the Minister cannot reassure me that there is a coherent vision behind it. I will understand myself with the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u126	It seems to me to be an excellent idea to discuss this with Mr Blok. Mr Ruers asked about the 10% that TNO had indicated. I discussed this with the Court of Justice Council, which informed me that this percentage was mentioned in the TNO report, which zoomed in on the impact of the introduction of the KEI programme. It's very specific about what happens when you enter the new system. People need to get used to a new system. What does that mean for capacity? TNO expects that capacity losses may occur after the introduction, as people have to get used to a new system. In the Council's view, this is a very limited period of time for the case-law, the so-called 'trial period'. Actually, that makes a lot of sense. Of course, justice has informed me that preparations are being made for this. I assume it will also be included in the business case that will become available in the second half of the year. Mr Ruers asked whether there was a lack of capacity due to KEI. During the meeting with the Chamber, the Chairman of the Board referred to experience in other organisations that had to do with a major transition. There may be temporary loss of production. It is not expected that there will be a structural problem. Finally, the Board indicated that it expects to have to rely on own funds in 2016. However, that is by no means certain, because this was also expected in 2015 and then it was not realized. If it were, I'd have an obligation to supplement own funds. Thank you. Oh, no. Yeah, I'm done anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u127	You're sure you're ready? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-12.u128	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Would any of the Members like to vote on legislative proposal 34059? That's the case. I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. Would any of the Members like to vote on bill 34138? I can see that this is also the case. I propose that we vote on that bill next Tuesday. Would any of the Members like to vote on legislative proposal 34212? Even now, there's a strong nod. I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also see from legislative proposal 34237 (R2054) that we are being asked to vote. I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
