ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I call the first speaker, Mr Ulenbelt, of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are concerns, great concerns about the independence of the company doctor and there is insufficient scope for professional practice. The Minister takes over these conclusions of the AStri investigation into the position of the company doctor. The company doctor as a health attorney of the man or woman who has become ill because of the work has long been in the past. The question is whether this bill brings back the professional defenders of health protection at work. Privatisation of occupational health services has led to a stroke in occupational health care. The prevention of illness due to work became a child put at risk. Does the Minister recognise that prevention at the workplace has suffered from privatisation? And does he recognise that the role of the company doctor in the field of prevention needs to be strengthened, as does that of other experts from the health service with which he cooperates? If the Minister acknowledges this, it would seem that he has not included in the basic contract that the company doctor should be allowed to carry out preventive activities. The core of the company doctor's work is the identification of sickening factors at work and the action to remove them. If this is not stated in the basic contract concluded between the employer and the health service, the company doctor remains a lame duck. After all, he knows what goes wrong, but he may not do anything. And if he does something, he won't get paid for it. Together with the Labour Party, I have tabled an amendment to establish that this is being arranged. For prevention work, occupational health professionals, safety experts and occupational health professionals are even more important than the company doctor if possible. Why didn't the Minister arrange the employee's access to these specialists? Or may I take it in such a way that, if the company doctor refers to one of the other experts, this is part of the consultation with the company doctor and that this is part of the basic contract? I am pleased that the Minister is restoring working conditions. In 2006 this was killed in the revision of the Arbo Act. My party, together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks, tried to maintain this consultation period, but that was not possible in 2006. Then it went overboard and now, ten years later, it is fortunately back on board. It is strange, however, that the company doctor decides whether someone can go to another company doctor for a second opinion. He must make some serious arguments about this, but this really is no longer the case at this time. A doctor whose diagnosis is questioned must never express the opinion that asking for a second opinion is stopped. This has to do with the free choice of doctors. Moreover, contradicting the request for a second opinion would be contrary to the function of the company doctor. I have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure that you can always ask for a second opinion. The Minister lays down minimum requirements for a contract between the employer and the health service: the right to work by the occupational physician and a number of other important matters. The question is whether this is enough to make full use of the professionalism of the company doctor. In my opinion, this will require a system change that will involve independent occupational health services which are constantly monitoring health and which have perseverance to eliminate disease-making factors. The minister was also in favour of system changes. Then why did he leave his ear hanging according to the views of the ESC? There was no consensus on that, by the way. If you consider corporate health care to be a public task, isn't the Minister in charge and should he take initiatives himself? In a survey, as many as 20% of thezzp'ers reported having ever had to deal with an occupational disease. In the case of workers, the percentage is slightly higher. You can speak of an epidemic, can't you? An occupational disease is a symptom of failure. We know the causes of many occupational diseases and we know how to prevent them, but there are still a lot of occupational diseases that we do not know about. An occupational disease can be regarded as a stranded ship. A Dutch saying shows that this is a beacon at sea. But if you don't know where the ship is stranded, it's not a beacon at sea anymore. This week I was approached by a retired professional driver with skin cancer. According to his treating specialist, this cancer was caused by sunlight or, more precisely, by UV radiation. A lot of people think UV radiation doesn't affect you when you're behind a window. That's a very nasty misunderstanding. Because there are different types of UV radiation and the type of cancer you get goes through glass. The remedy to prevent skin cancer in drivers is actually very simple. For very little money you have UV-resistant foil to stick to the windows. Then it's perfect for each other. If this occupational disease had been reported to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases, it would have been concluded that skin cancer is a possible occupational disease among professional drivers. However, we do not know where it happened. You want that beacon, so I want the company where the occupational disease has been diagnosed or the company where it originated to be registered and reported to the Labour Inspectorate so that it can go there to see if everyone has that UV-resistant film. In the case of accidents at work, we think that's perfectly normal. The employer must report this to the Labour Inspectorate. There is even a fine of up to €50,000. We read about an accident at work in the newspaper: the Labour Inspectorate is conducting an investigation. The employer is confronted with it and is prepared to do things that are in his capacity to prevent repetition. I also want to achieve this effect when reporting occupational diseases. Trade unions and occupational doctors advocate the notification of occupational diseases by the employer. However, the Minister rejects this because, as he says, the employer then has to turn himself in. My question to him is why this is not an objection to accidents at work and to occupational diseases. In fact, this remark in the text is a bit of a contempt for the victims. In fact, this notification would recognise the responsibility of the employer. You could compare it to the following. If you cause an accident in traffic, you have a duty to report it and to help. I believe that an employer in whose company an occupational disease has arisen has a duty to report it, to help and to remedy it. I've talked to a lot of victims of occupational diseases. Often they don't get better. Each time their hearts were crying out: make sure it becomes known so that no more victims are killed. They want to make it clear that they are a stranded ship that must become a beacon. If many occupational diseases have arisen in a company, this is a reason for intervention by the Labour Inspectorate to eliminate causes. The collection of occupational diseases and the conditions is a very useful academic activity, but in practice it is not the existence of the occupational disease and the number of occupational diseases in a sector that is important, but it is particularly important to know the place and time of the onset of the occupational disease so that prevention can be carried out on the ground. That is why I have tabled an amendment. There was an intermediate solution in which the company would also be reported to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases, but in a letter of early July the Minister rejected it. There is also a legal argument. The Netherlands has signed the ILO Convention 81 on the Labour Inspectorate. Article 14 states that the Labour Inspectorate will be informed of industrial accidents and occupational diseases. If the Minister does not agree with my arguments in substance, he will also want to respect the legal argument of complying with an international treaty. I have a few final questions. Access to the prevention worker will take everyone for granted. That's not in the text. I would like to hear, even if only for the Minister's legal interpretation, that access to the prevention worker is indeed the most normal thing in the world for all workers and that there can be no discussion about it. The second point with regard to the prevention worker is that works councils are now given a right of assent, but we are receiving reports that employers appoint a prevention worker. What else does the works council have to say? Shouldn't there be a transitional right or right of consent for the works council to correct it if he doesn't agree with that designated prevention officer? I think it is very good that the financial basis for the Dutch Centre for Occupational Diseases is now laid down in the law. Finally, my final question. The letter of amendment provides for the possibility of granting exemptions or exemptions from certification requirements. The argument for this is that the absence of this possibility leads to problems. I am very curious to know what problems these are and what this will mean for health protection. The Minister has missed a chance to organise the system of occupational health care in the Netherlands really well. As far as I'm concerned, this law is a piece of shit. Now you can come a long way with lappers, I know that. I fixed a broken V-string on a provisional basis with a nylon tube of my wife's. I've come home with it, then again, along with my wife, but the Minister will agree with me that it doesn't feel right to fix a V string like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. People are proud of their work, because work is more than an income. Work ensures independence, self-esteem and social contacts. I think it's important to look at what people can do instead of what they can't do. People who are ill would like to get back to work as soon as they recover. The company doctor is helping them, but this care of company doctors can be better done, on which we agree in this Chamber. The absenteeism of workers in the Netherlands has been one of the highest in Europe for decades. The Minister would like to do something to improve this concern, which is a credit to him, but the legal possibilities for doing so are limited. The 2014 SER opinion was divided: the crown members, trade unions and employers disagreed. This immediately reflects the dilemma of this bill. The VVD would have liked to see measures to make the general practitioner and the specialist work together better to really improve the quality of care and thus make a move. This is a cultural change in which the curative sector is more aware of the fact that the patient is working. Someone is not just a patient or employee; he is both. That is why I would like the Minister to take action even if it is not in the law. This can be done in a work programme in which curative care and occupational health care work together. This programme should prevent long-term unemployment and reduce absenteeism and reduce the burden on the employer. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. In recent years, we have discussed the threshold for employers to take on people. The financial burden of employers should be reduced, but administrative burdens should also be reduced, so that people can find jobs again. We all want people not to be left to their own devices when they get sick and they go back to work as soon as they can. This bill is merely a proposal for a directive, and I am very sorry to say that it is a collection of procedural changes which increase the burden and whose impact on the quality of care is largely unknown or absent. I deal with some of the technical aspects of the law, for example on the second opinion. Why did the cabinet make this proposal? The ESC did not advise it and the Council of State did not consider it necessary. The second opinion is given by company doctors and employers. Why is it necessary to legally anchor them if the cabinet does not expect much use to be made of them? How does the possibility of a second opinion relate to the expert opinion that can be requested by an employee from the UWV? We all have no doubt that the employer must take preventive action and make a person in his company responsible for this. This has already been regulated by law and, in the opinion of the VVD, this should also be maintained. However, what is proposed here relates to the right of consent of the works council in the appointment of the person responsible for prevention. I ask the Minister what exactly goes wrong with the appointment of the person who makes this proposal necessary. What is the added value of this? In the end, is it not wiser to focus on a real improvement in prevention? Like Mr Ulenbelt, I have been looking for things that can still be improved on prevention. I've spoken to toxicologists and occupational hygienists. I hear from them that small improvements can already have a great effect. These are not improvements in the law, but improvements in monitoring compliance with the risk inventory and assessment, which can prevent many occupational diseases. I am told that the inspection is not sufficient at present. Risks on occupational diseases are missed because the inspection has insufficient knowledge of the latest developments in science. Strengthening the expertise of this monitoring will help to prevent occupational diseases. That is what we are all trying to do: to prevent people from becoming ill during their work and life or after retirement. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Then I'll go into access to the company doctor. According to the Arbowet, it is not the formal but the factual situation that is decisive if it is to be determined who the employer is. In the written consultation we have read that a temp can go to the company doctor from the company that lent him and therefore not to the company doctor of the temporary employment agency, for example. What if the temp works for different companies? The VVD is in favour of ensuring thatzzp'ers remain independent and therefore remain responsible for their health care. If not the formal situation of the contract of employment is leading, but the actual situation, what is the distinction betweenzzp'ers and, for example, temporary workers? Can this proposal lead, for example, to the company doctor of a client, just like temporary workers, and the employer therefore pays their company doctor? That's not the VVD's preference. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Then I'll deal with the occupational diseases. Mr Ulenbelt of the SP has already discussed it extensively. In most countries, for example in Belgium and Germany, knowledge about occupational diseases is better developed than in the Netherlands. Unfortunately. This bill announces more enforcement of the obligation to report occupational diseases by the occupational doctors. There is a duty to report, but in the end you cannot maintain it. In fact, if a company doctor finds an occupational disease but does not report it, it is very difficult to detect it in practice; that is what it is all about. For privacy reasons, the inspection should not include the patient's medical data. The inspection is not allowed to access the medical records at all, so how are you going to maintain the reporting obligation? Mr Ulenbelt has tabled an amendment which seeks to ensure that there is a legal obligation for the employer, not for the occupational physician, but for the employer, to report an occupational disease. I agree with his aim of preventing occupational diseases. That's what we both have. However, I cannot support this amendment. I know the SP as a party that wants the employer to know nothing about the illness of workers and therefore does not have access to the medical data of the workers. How can the employer become responsible for reporting something he is not allowed to know under the law? The employer is not allowed to see the medical data of his employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would have preferred this question during my contribution, but it is now being asked. It's very simple. In the contract with the occupational health service it is stated that the occupational health doctor does not report occupational diseases to the employer: the circumstances, what has happened, etc. There is no need to mention that it is about Jantje or Pietje, born to hoppup. Well, there's often the department there. Then the employer knows he has an occupational disease in his company. That's an alarm bell. This now disappears, anonymously, in the database of the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases. I want the employer to know that there is an occupational disease in his company and that he reports it to the Labour Inspectorate, as in the case of an accident at work. The Labour Inspectorate can then help the employer to solve the problem. That's the whole point. It is not the intention to nail down employers, but to give them the opportunity to intervene and to eliminate the occupational disease and its causes. It's very simple. It's exactly what Mrs. Schut-Goodbye wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u5	I do not see the added value of a report by the employer rather than by the company doctor. The employer must not have an active knowledge of that occupational disease. How can you make the employer responsible for a duty to which he is controlled by the Labour Inspectorate and which he can be fined for enforcement, when he has no information about it? The VVD believes that this duty should remain with the company doctor and should not be transferred to the employer. After all, you cannot impose a duty on an employer if he does not have the knowledge to carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u6	Then Mrs. Schut-Because of the law, she doesn't know. One of the requirements for certification of an occupational health service is that the occupational health service reports occupational diseases to the works council and to the employer. That's what it says. If everything goes well, then the employer already knows. All I'm adding is that the occupational disease has to be reported to the Labour Inspectorate, just like an accident at work. The Labour Inspectorate will then be able to supervise and carry out its duties. I am not proposing a revolution; it is a small thing, which helps prevention and is entirely in line with the existing system of legislation for accidents at work. Apparently, it doesn't play there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u7	The VVD disagrees with the SP on this point, especially since this obligation was in the past with the employer and occupational diseases were reported much less. Now that duty lies with the company doctor and fortunately there is much more reported. So we'd like to keep it the way it is. Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that there are two ways to ensure that occupational diseases are reported more frequently. The first possibility is to continue along this road, as I said in response to Mr Ulenbelt's interruption. Fortunately, more occupational diseases are reported now than in the past. The second option concerns a structural solution for the notification of occupational diseases. To this end, a distinction should be made in the insurance scheme between occupational diseases and non-work-related absenteeism. In the Netherlands there is no focus on occupational diseases, because there is no such distinction. The employer is responsible for the wages or benefits of his employees in the event of absenteeism and incapacity for work, regardless of the reason why the worker becomes ill. In countries of Europe where this distinction is made, there is more knowledge and prevention of occupational diseases. I would like to mention the examples of aid programmes for post-traumatic stress disorder due to work. They are much better developed abroad. Diagnosis is also much better developed there. Therefore, the VVD advocates that this distinction should be made in the long term, in order to ensure that people return to work as soon as they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u8	Part of the speech of the spokesperson of the VVD concerns what the VVD actually wanted to see that had come out of the ESC. It was indeed a triple divided opinion. But there was agreement on a number of points, and that has largely been incorporated into this law. I have the next question to the VVD Group. Actually, the VVD would have preferred to see something else. Does the Commission see the proposals now before us as an improvement on the current situation? I mention, for example, the care and problems surrounding the independence of the company doctor. Does the bill offer any improvement at this point or are it deteriorations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u9	I believe that the proposals that have been made have been greatly watered down because the parties were unable to reach agreement on them. That has also made these proposals worse. I do not see any added value in most proposals. I have also indicated this with a few examples. However, I am waiting for the debate to see if the Minister can convince me. When you make legal changes, they always give a burden to companies. Then there must be real added value. So far we are not convinced of this added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u10	The study cited in the bill shows that about one in five company doctors indicate that they cannot do their work independently enough. There are indeed elements in this bill to make the position of the company doctor clearer and better. Apart from the fact that the VVD would have wanted more, does it not also see that this is an improvement over the current situation and that this could reduce that percentage? That alone is positive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u11	I see a lot of procedural proposals. I mention, for example, the drawing up of a basic contract and the company doctor speaking with the works council. I don't see exactly what that adds to the quality of care. So I am not convinced of that, but I await the debate to make a final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u12	I would just like to respond to one of the last things Mrs Schut-Welken mentioned in her contribution. Do I understand correctly that the VVD will not take seriously the phenomenon of occupational disease there dying in the Netherlands 3,700 people per year to.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u13	I do not know how Mr Kerstens understood that from what I said. I didn't say that at all. I don't understand what he's pointing at either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u14	I heard Mrs Schut-Welkins say that if, in many cases, we stop paying the wages of sick workers, employers will be making more serious work of tackling occupational diseases. I'm glad I misunderstood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u15	I now understand what Mr Kerstens is suggesting. I indicated that in many countries the knowledge about occupational diseases is much better developed than in the Netherlands, because the distinction is made between occupational diseases and other non-work-related absenteeism. If we did so in the Netherlands, the knowledge about occupational diseases would also be better developed. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u16	So Mr. Kerstens had understood it quite well! My question is another one. I am also trying to see where Mrs Schut stands on this subject. I see that with this bill, access to the company doctor is in any case better secured than in the past. After all, that is often still just a problem. I hope both of us don't like that. A good basic contract is now finally being enforced and secured. The VVD may be different in this subject, but aren't these just steps forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u17	We are in favour of looking at legal solutions that improve the quality of care. I have asked for this in the written round, but these are all procedural proposals which do not directly improve the quality of care. D66 should agree with me that we should strive to improve quality and that we should always look for measures to improve prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u18	I agree with what Mrs Schut says about prevention. I would like to point out that she too has the amendment tabled by Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Tanamal in respect of item No. 11 will support it. In any case, my group is very much considering supporting that amendment. This will ensure better prevention. Mrs Schut is running a little away from my question. My question is: does she agree with me that ensuring access to the company doctor and the fact that everyone can make use of it will improve the quality of health care? Does she agree with me that the rules on the basic contract will improve the quality of care? Mrs Schut always says that this is procedural, but these are very concrete measures. My group thinks it is a step forward. I think Mrs Schut should now tell us where she is. Does she think it is bureaucratic nonsense and is she against it or does she say that it is improvements that actually ensure that more people can get good care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u19	I have made a number of proposals to improve the quality of care. I do not agree with what Mr Van Weyenberg has said. These are procedural arguments. They are ticking lists, and that does not mean that occupational diseases are prevented and that fewer people get sick because of their work. I would like to see proposals to achieve this. I would like to mention, for example, the proposal I have just made. Curative care and occupational health care should work together much better. We must put in place an action programme to ensure that people are not only seen as workers or patients, but as workers and patients. That will have added value. This cannot be achieved with a contract or with all the proposals made here, which are largely already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u20	I can only hope that Mrs Schut will support some of the things that are contained in it, which, in the opinion of the D66 Group, will ensure that people receive better professional care. However, Mrs Schut says that more is needed. I am eagerly looking forward to her amendment to ensure that it is. She knows my commitment to the labour market position of, for example, former cancer patients. I'd like to talk about a better cooperation with curative care. That seems to me to be something we are going to add, but that does not seem to me to be a reason not to be able to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u21	As I said in my speech, the law does not always provide a solution. I do not think that proposals to involve the right of consent and the appointment of a prevention officer have anything to do with improving care. I find D66 on my side when it comes to a motion that I intend to table on improving curative care and occupational health care. That's fine, but I can't warm up to proposals that are just procedural.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u22	If you are in favour of cooperation between curative care and preventive care, then it is at least necessary that the company doctor responsible for providing preventive care is accessible to an employee. Otherwise, the company doctor has nothing to say about the cooperation with curative care. Mrs Schut can't call the regulation of access to the company doctor procedurally noisy? She can't call that bureaucracy, can she? That is the guarantee of a fundamental right for workers, namely the right to expert advice on their health and work. That's not what the VVD wants to deny these employees, is it? She will if she votes against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u23	No, definitely not. Because the employee can already go to the company doctor; that is already regulated in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u24	There are employers who do not have contracts with workers' services and/or company doctors. Now they are obliged to do so, and controlled. That's getting access. You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u25	I'm not against that either. But access to the company doctor for employees has already been arranged. The only difference that has been made here is: if something occurs without any background, that access must always be there. That's different from what the law says. That access is already there, but you want something else to do with it than I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by apologizing to my colleague Grace Tanamal. On behalf of the Labour Party, she has taken care of the entire preparation of the bill we are debating today. That's what she did with vervain, I might add. But I'm afraid she's gonna have to let go today. Yesterday she asked me to replace her. I am happy to do that, because being able to do your job safely and healthily and how we can promote it here is, of course, extremely important. Less fun was perhaps that I could only get to work with things last night and thus missed the Dutch Elftal. But I'm sure I'll make up for that once the World Championship qualification is done. "Working hard has never killed anyone." Who never heard his father or his grandfather say that as an incentive or as a wise counsel? The meaning of this is clear: work is good for you. That is also the case: work is more than once a month a paycheck and receives the corresponding salary. It also means social contacts, structure in your life, developing yourself, participating and making a difference. But still, if you take it literally, that ancient incentive is far from true. Every year, more than 2 million people worldwide lose their lives during, by or as a result of their work. That's a deadly victim every 15 seconds, every day. Also in the Netherlands people get sick during their working lives. By a flu or by their work. Also in the Netherlands people die, on or as a result of their work, because they get caught in a machine, are crushed under a concrete plate, become victims of a reckless road user or after years of bullying by colleagues, no other way out. Or sometimes because years after their farewell party and receiving the proverbial gold watch, after a long and painful sick bed they still die of a disease that they contracted during their work. Being able to do your job safely and healthily is therefore literally vital. Just like good care during your working life. Care focused on maintaining, restoring and improving your health and on sustainable employability, so that you can make it to the finish line and enjoy a well-earned pension and a beautiful old age. The Labour Party welcomes the bill we are discussing here today. It addresses a number of bottlenecks in the field of occupational health care that occur in practice and which we, but also the ESC, recognise and tackle. Positive is the Labour Party on the other track that the Minister is pursuing: focusing on stimulating measures aimed at promoting cooperation between occupational health care and curative care and promoting initiatives by employers and employees in the field of occupational health care, at regional and sectoral level. I do have a question about that. The Minister and we are always talking about all workers. However, it seems that it is mainly about employees, people who are employed by the company where they work. This is reflected in the law, which is reflected in the role played by social partners, workers' and employers' representatives, on the second track I have mentioned. But what about the growing army of flex workers, agency workers, payrollers,zzp'ers? Their back, their knees and their mental health are as valuable to me as anyone else, especially since I cannot escape the impression that flex forces are often more at risk than permanent forces when it comes to matters such as working conditions and safety. I'd like a solid response to this. Then, on a point-by-point basis, the improvements proposed in the proposal itself. Let it be clear, the Labour Party sees them as improvements, all of them. That is what the trade unions are doing. The first improvement is the planned strengthening of the position of the prevention officer and his cooperation with the health service providers. It is important, because there is still a great deal to be done about the phenomenon of prevention. Too many companies do not have a prevention worker, but they should, and where there is, unfortunately, he or she does not always get enough out of the picture. That is a pity, for the prevention worker himself, but also for his colleagues and for his employer. A prevention worker can and should play an important role in the occupational health system. Prevention must not be an underprivileged child within that system. After all, prevention is better than cure. The agreement of the works council with the person and the positioning of the prevention employee is therefore a step forward. It increases the attention and support for that prevention worker. In addition, his or her position is strengthened by the now foreseen legal anchoring of his or her role towards the labour service provider. Then there is the clarification of the advisory role of the company doctor in the event of absenteeism. The term "aid" used so far leads to noise in relation to his or her role and that of the employer. The latter is and will continue to be responsible for absenteeism. The company doctor cannot and must not be forced into this role, as this puts his independent position at risk. He has to advise employer and employee in that guidance. I told you, prevention is better than cure. In this context, the working person has, of course, a responsibility, for example, to recognise complaints in time before they lead to failure. In this context, the Labour Party considers it very important that people always have access to a company doctor and that they can consult him or her, as it is called, even if they have not fallen out yet. It is a good thing to have that right enshrined in the law. It is also a good thing that it is made clear that in order for that right to really be proposed, it is necessary that the right is made known, that there are no unnecessary thresholds in terms of space and time for such consultation, that your employer does not need permission and that he is not informed about it either. The most important part of the bill that we are discussing today is perhaps better guaranteeing and giving more scope to professional practice by the company doctor and other health service providers. It's obvious, but it's not gonna happen by itself. The "who pays, determines," is always lurking. It is therefore good that a number of fundamental rights and obligations are now enshrined in the law, such as the right to visit a workplace, any workplace, and the right to offer a second opinion if necessary. I would like to ask the Minister about the usefulness and necessity of including the phrase in the legislative proposal: unless major interests oppose it. There is also the right, if desired, to consult with the works council, which raises the question of whether the works council also has that right. Finally, there is a duty to have a complaint procedure. These are matters which, apart from the law, should also be enshrined in the contract between the employer and the health service provider. It is a good thing that this contract is now subject to legal requirements and that the inclusion in that contract of the undertaking's obligation to report occupational diseases is an obligation which, unfortunately, is not sufficiently respected in practice and the need to do so is further emphasised. This is an important obligation, because the company doctor is closest to the fire and has an important signaling function from his or her professionalism in order to tackle that persistent phenomenon of occupational diseases which leads to more than 3,500 deaths every year, while according to RIVM more than 17,000 people suffer an occupational disease every year. The Labour Party has no doubt that it has to do so. It is therefore a good thing that this already existing reporting system is now being strongly emphasised and given a more prominent place. It is also a good thing that non-compliance will have consequences. That the sector is once again given a longer chance of fulfilling this already existing obligation better, as the Labour Party understands, but should it take four years? That is too long as far as the Labour Party is concerned. What is the Minister's position on the idea of reducing this deadline to, for example, two years? We are still talking about an additional year in relation to the one-year transition period, as the Minister said. I would just like to quote from the explanatory statement under the heading of Transitional law: 'The importance of a good health service does not justify a longer term nor a structural policy of tolerance by the SZW inspection'. That was something else, but as far as my group is concerned, it applies seamlessly to this too. The Labour Party, through yours truly, but above all in the person of my colleague Mr Tanamal, has repeatedly called for an independent institution to help workers to obtain their rights more quickly when an occupational disease is suspected. Now, apart from the disease in question itself, it is often a real agony to get your right. I repeat that plea once again. I would ask the Minister to come forward with a proposal on how this could be done before the budget is discussed. Finally. Today's bill also focuses on monitoring and enforcement. To this end, a number of cases are classified as infringements and fined. That is important, because what is important and actually self-evident is not happening on its own. The Labour Party, together with a number of other parties, has been calling for serious consideration of the possibilities of extending the inspection. This was achieved with the social agreement that the cabinet concluded with trade unions and employers in 2013. During last year's budget debate, we managed to release 5 million extra. This spring, the Chamber again adopted a motion for a resolution, which the Minister did not advise against, on a possible extension of the inspection. How's that working out for you? Can we possibly look forward to this effect before this budget debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Kerstens rightly points out that trade unions also see improvements in this, but together with the occupational doctors they also advocate the report of occupational diseases by the employer to the Labour Inspectorate, not to blackmail the employer, but to prevent them. Now the PvdA supports my amendment to strengthen prevention. Then it is reasonable to say something about this in this debate, isn't it? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u28	I would like to thank Mr Ulenbelt for his invitation to do so. I was just looking at my bell with a slanted eye, and that was just ticking. I also had a question to the Minister in my speech. Of this obligation to report, I have said that mine should also be a little firmer. The question was why the Minister did not provide for a notification of employers to the inspection as proposed by the SP, because we are not opposed to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Arbowet on the position of the company doctor certainly did not come about without a fight. The polder did not agree in the ESC and so there was also a very divided opinion. So the Minister himself has now had to cut a number of buttons. In general, according to the D66 group, he has succeeded quite well. A good example is the second opinion. Trade unions are still calling on us to increase the scope even further than is provided for in this bill. The request is to make the second opinion unconditional. On the other hand, employers are lobbying us to get that whole second opinion out of the law. In D66's view, both are not necessary and the Minister considers a good balance to be necessary, although on one point it depends on the Minister's reply. I asked him to confirm in this procedure how we see the second opinion before us and how we also read the bill. We read it in such a way that, in principle, we are always entitled to a second opinion under this law, unless an employee really wants to abuse that right, for example to train in a labour dispute. For example, I read the grounds for rejection set out in this bill in order not to allow a second opinion in very exceptional cases. If I interpret the bill properly in this way, then my group agrees. People who want a second opinion can therefore count on their application always being honored. I'll ask the Minister to monitor this very actively. I hope he agrees to this, so I don't have to make a motion. I would like to keep my finger on the pulse to see whether the second opinion is actually available in practice in the cases referred to in the law and that there is no unnecessary restriction. The latter is really not the intention. I also have a number of questions about the rest of the law, starting with the role of prevention in the basic contract. According to the Minister, this is an inherent part of the professionalism of the company doctor and does not have to be in the basic contract. My group notes that employers' expenditure on prevention has fallen sharply: from 1.3 billion in 2003 to 1.1 billion in 2012. The Minister wants to explicitly require the reporting of occupational diseases, although he believes that this is already part of the professionalism of the company doctor. As far as my group is concerned, it is therefore a good idea to make prevention an explicit part of the basic contract. I may be convinced by the Minister's reply, but at the moment we intend to support the amendment tabled by Mr Ulenbelt of the SP and Mrs Tanamal of the Labour Party, who unfortunately cannot be present today. My group is struggling with the reporting of occupational diseases. Finally, I agree with Mr Ulenbelt that, apart from the fact that it is good to keep track of the number of occupational diseases, you are taking lessons. Mr Ulenbelt gave poignant but unfortunately very illustrative examples of the profound consequences of an occupational disease; extremely sad. Occupational diseases can be prevented by adjusting the working method or by raising people's awareness of the risks. As far as I am concerned, that is the ultimate purpose of the notification, not the notification. You'll be running into complicated privacy questions very soon. Now a company does not hear from the company doctor that there has been an occupational disease, while you want to have the action there to prevent the emergence of an occupational disease for the future. Privacy and medical professional secrecy are very important to my group, but are there no ways of anonymizing or otherwise ensuring that the employer has an occupational disease so that he or the sector concerned can take action? Mr Ulenbelt had a suggestion on the role of the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate. He can use that band to get such a report back to a sector or a company. I think that we still have to look further on this subject, because what is lying there is not satisfactory for me. I would ask the Minister to go into this in detail. The Minister chooses to eventually include in the law the option of individual occupational doctors being fined if they do not report occupational diseases. I have reservations about the content and I wonder if this is going to work at all. In addition, I have great difficulty in saying that I am also honest with you that the company doctor is being fined. After all, we want this employer to learn from the development of this occupational disease. I think a lot of employers would like to hear it from the company doctor if he finds an occupational disease. No employer is proud of it if it turns out that his people are sick of or even dying of the work they do. Each responsible employer, as I know them, wants to prevent it, so let's see if we can do it better in that respect. The law now states that if occupational doctors do not report that there is an occupational disease, an article can enter into force to fine them. However, it is not clear what the criteria are for this, when that article enters into force and what it will look like. From a legal point of view, my group has difficulty with that. It often happens that a little later comes into force, for example the Quotum Act. A number of colleagues have dealt with this dossier here. As far as the Quota Act is concerned, however, it has been made explicit when that hook enters into force. In this case it is completely open and that gives my group the uncomfortable feeling that we are giving carte blanche for a new instrument, when no explanation has been given when it is being used and how. As far as I am concerned, the Minister is now making a clear statement: what are the criteria, what does this obligation look like? My group will then consider whether it thinks that is a convincing and good story. Or this goes out of the law now. Then the Minister could come forward with a bill at any time to introduce that fine. In any case, we will have the right and complete political debate. I am considering tabling an amendment on this, but I am particularly curious about the Minister's reaction to the legislative technique, my inconvenience with regard to this article and to my wider concern about whether this is something that does not really touch the core of the problem. The legislative proposal contains a provision aimed at stopping the work ofzzp'ers if they have repeatedly violated the Arbo Act. You can have a debate in principle aboutzzp'ers and their role in relation to clients and employers, but we at least looked in the written round to see if this provision would make a difference. We received the response that the Minister cannot answer our question as to whether the SZW Inspection would have liked to have used this competence once in recent years. At that time the image of a symbol was created in me; the introduction of something without a concrete example. Can the Minister still indicate what this adds? Let us not have the debate of principle. I believe that the Minister and I are different in that respect. In this case, I want to assess this impact, because so far I have no reason to expect any effect from it, which I think is the least you can expect if you put something into a law. For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mr Ulenbelt's question on the transitional right of the prevention worker. We, too, received the signal from the FNV that, as a result of the form of the transitional law, prevention workers are still being adopted very quickly. Of course, I think it is extremely good that prevention workers are being hired, but are we now working quickly around this law? The positive news may then be that this one is showing its shadow in a positive sense, and I say this to Mr Ulenbelt, but it is remarkable. Does the Minister recognize this signal? I also agree with Mr Ulenbelt's question as to whether access to the prevention worker is indeed an integral part of access to the company doctor supported by this law. I say once again that my group welcomes the direction of this law. So much for my questions about the content of the bill. I do have a question about the context of this law. This law will lead to additional work for company doctors. That's the goal, too. However, there are already so few company doctors and you can see that with the influx of company doctors, things are bad. A plan will therefore be drawn up by October at the latest with the aim of increasing the number of occupational doctors. This was promised by the Minister in response to questions from, among others, D66. Are we on schedule with that project? I noticed, however, that in the task of the quartermaster who was asked to look at the number of company doctors, there is nothing at all about the also problematic lack of insurance doctors. That's a subject that D66 always puts on the table. Why was this chosen? Isn't it good to watch this, too? I am aware that they are two rather different organisations and that they are other employers, but for both of them there is a problem with the influx. The quartermaster will also look at the quality policy: laying down guidelines and protocols of matters that ensure a good quality of care. It also makes the profession of business doctor more attractive if you make sure that you are always on top of the current state of science and you can use the new insights immediately in daily practice. That's the professional of a company doctor. The task states that public funding is in fact excluded from this type of guidelines and protocols in advance. Now I am not saying that I am in favour of this, but I think that the quartermaster should be able to have an open mind in the discussions with experts. He's got to be in it open and see what works. Can the Minister promise that if the quartermaster has the freedom to investigate this and if it turns out that it is the most efficient way if the government also makes a large or small contribution to it, this is an advice that can be given and that the Minister will take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the point that Mr Van Weyenberg closed off from D66. This bill deals with occupational health care, the position of company doctors and the quality of this care. For the quality of this care, not only the position of the company doctor is important, but also that there are sufficient company doctors. We have had a number of debates on this in recent years. A quarter of an hour maker has been appointed. I wonder if the Minister can tell us what the situation is. Has the influx been increasing since last September? I also agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the open mind about funding. I also believe that the quartermaster should be able to look at this with an open eye without any prior identification of the role of the government in this. This legislative proposal follows a special SER opinion from 2014. That was not just a divided opinion, but a triple divided opinion. It was presented in this way by the then new president of the ESC, who had just been there for a week. At the same time, there was agreement on a number of issues when the report was presented. The Minister took over those cases and cut a number of buttons. Following on from previous speakers, I must say that my group, too, is broadly positive about what lies here. This proposal makes real improvements in a number of areas, such as the position of the company doctor and access to the company doctor. I would also like to thank the Minister for replying in writing to all kinds of questions. A number of questions have been answered in detail and clearly, for example on the terminology for providing assistance or advice by the company doctor and also on the role of the or on the person of the prevention worker. I find the response of the cabinet convincing on this point. There is still some discussion about the second opinion, or the second opinion, as Mr Ulenbelt has just mentioned. I share Mr Van Weyenberg's view that a balance appears to have been found. The workers would actually like to remove any restrictions, the employers would not want to do so at all. In my view, there is a good balance if a second opinion is not infinite and is not too limited. What about the serious arguments? Mr Ulenbelt has tabled an amendment on it. Can the Minister explain what the serious arguments are for making it clear that a second opinion is not too limited? I am curious to know what the Minister thinks of the suggestion of OVAL, which suggests that it would be good for the balance sheet if the employer could also request a second opinion. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. My group's opinion on Mr Ulenbelt's second amendment, which was subsequently retabled and co-signed by Mrs Tanamal, tends towards 'positive'. I am critical of the first amendment on the serious arguments, because I think it is a good thing that there is a restriction in it. When we talk about occupational health care, prevention is important, including in that basic contract and for the position of the company doctor. So I think it is a nice amendment and I am very interested in how the Minister will react to it. I will conclude with the issue of the company doctor's obligation to report and the fine attached to it. I, too, have doubts about this, both about the company doctor and about the way in which it is regulated by law. Mr Van Weyenberg just referred to the Quotum Act. He indicated that the Quotum Act at least makes it very clear. But even with the Quotum Act there is still a weighing moment built in. Even there is a lot of discussion about whether or not it is happening. With permission: Mr Van Weyenberg indicates that it may still be possible under the Quotum Act, but even so you can very much doubt how clear it is in the end. Isn't it wiser, also legally speaking, to say that, if we consider it at a later stage, that the time is right to talk about it legally, rather than bringing it into a law so loosely now, while it is unclear what might happen at this point in the evaluation in a few years' time? So I would also like to receive a comprehensive response from the Minister. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. It's nice that we can discuss this bill so soon in this Chamber Season. Good work-related care is aimed at maintaining, restoring and improving the health and sustainable employability of workers. The labour market is changing. Sustainable employability of the labour force is becoming increasingly important. Against this background, this legislative proposal proposes a number of amendments to the Working Conditions Act. The main focus of the proposal is to improve the framework conditions for the work of the occupational physician, to strengthen the involvement of employers and employees in occupational services and to promote prevention within a company. Let me say first of all that I have a great deal of appreciation for the work of the company doctor. How important a company doctor can be, I noticed before the summer at a conference about unwanted forms of behaviour. A victim there told me that she brought her complaints to the company doctor and that he was the first to mention bullying. That was a very important moment for her: the start of tackling the problem at work. It was just one of the examples of someone who is finally hearing from a company doctor and actually being helped. Another example came from a farm doctor in the agricultural sector. He told me that in the conversations between company doctors in that sector, the large number of arm and shoulder complaints among scoundrels were noticed. A different design of the hoof was then sought. In the meantime, the number of complaints has clearly decreased. Sometimes it can be so simple and so effective to do something about prevention. If the company doctors had not noticed this problem, perhaps no action would have been taken and many scoundrels would still have suffered. These are good examples, which are in line with the aim of the legislative proposal: to promote prevention and to give company doctors and other health service providers a strong position. To achieve that, you must always be willing to see what can be done better. From all kinds of angles, bottlenecks have been mentioned in the past year that are bad for the professional behaviour of the company doctor. We also know them: discussion about the independence of his position, employers without agreement with the occupational doctor or the occupational health service, lack of attention to prevention, lack of cooperation between ordinary health care and occupational health professionals and, finally, the lack of recognition of occupational diseases or the inadequate reporting of them. As is well known, the cabinet has asked the ESC to advise on this. Although the ESC recognises the importance of good work-related care, it was far from unanimous in the opinion. That can happen sometimes. In the following cabinet position, we have chosen to focus on a number of concrete measures that improve the provision of services in occupational health care and strengthen the position of the employee. The employer is responsible for the supervision of absenteeism. The bottlenecks I just mentioned are being dealt with along two tracks. The first is a number of adjustments to the Working Conditions Act. That's what we're talking about in the Chamber today. The second track is: commitment to non-legislative, incentive measures aimed at promoting cooperation between occupational health care and curative care. Mrs Schut also asked a question about this, but this is much more about the culture of cooperation. Both tracks are basic in my view to achieve the improvement that is needed. An evaluation will be carried out in 2020. It will cover both the legislative process and the incentive measures. The proposal we are discussing today aims to clarify the independent position of the company doctor, inter alia, by establishing a number of conditions for the company doctor's action. That's one. Two is the obligation of a basic contract between employer and occupational services with a mandatory number of elements in it. Three is the strengthening of the position of the prevention worker and the promotion of cooperation with the health service providers. The SP asks if this bill returns the independent professional support of the company doctor. I believe that this legislative proposal provides a good basis for that at least. Maybe we can do better than that. We will take this with us as part of the evaluation. But at least let us take this step and take it this way. That is how I understood Mr Ulenbelt's speech. The SP and the Labour Party asked why it is actually no objection that the employer should report himself to accidents at work. This is not necessary in the case of occupational diseases, but in the case of accidents at work. Where is the difference in duty of reporting at the inspection? It is good to look at the difference between the phenomena "work accident" and "professional illness." An accident occurs suddenly and is also noticeable and visible to everyone in a company. In the case of occupational diseases, this is often very different. They are often expressed only years later and may have arisen from one of the previous employees. So there is not always an equally obvious one-on-one relationship. Moreover, it is not insignificant that the phenomenon of occupational illness should be identified by an occupational physician. This includes matters such as privacy and medical professional secrecy. The great differences between these two phenomena mean that they relate to a different legal framework, and I also recognise that there are dilemmas. I will deal with this in detail later. On the one hand, there is a desire to know more, one on the other, there is the need to protect both the company doctor and the employee. There is indeed another error in the certification scheme for occupational services. That's what the SP referred to. Article 9 (3) of the Working Conditions Act states: "The person referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 14, who is responsible for the task referred to in subparagraph (b) of that paragraph, or the occupational disease service shall report occupational diseases to an institution designated by our Minister for this purpose." We have found that there are still articles in the lower occupational safety regulations that do not follow. The legal argument for Article 9 (3) applies equally to the lower working conditions. It therefore needs to be adapted. How do we deal with sitting prevention workers? That's what the SP and D66 are asking. The law has no retroactive effect and therefore applies only to new appointments. However, I expect that the vast majority of companies will have new appointments within two to three years, so it is no longer relevant that there are now prevention staff who could still be appointed under the old regime. It seems to me too far-reaching to introduce this retroactively, because then you will create uncertainty again for the prevention workers. I don't think that's necessary. The system is being introduced. Everyone knows that it is and within a number of years all appointments will be in accordance with the law. The SP asks whether the craftsmanship of the company doctor actually requires a system change. Why do we leave the ear hanging to the ESC who remained careful in that? We have identified a number of bottlenecks in the current system when we asked for advice from the ESC, in particular about the position of the company doctor and the lack of the contract between the employer and the labour force. I just said that I chose a two-track approach: a law change in the Arbo Act and the extra-legal approach. So we do not now choose to turn the system as such upside down. I think there is a balance between strengthening the position of the employee and the company doctor on the one hand and leaving the direction of absenteeism with the employer on the other hand, which is also very positive. The SP also asks about the exemption from the certification obligation. What kind of problems do they solve? "What's that for" to introduce such an exemption into the law? The point is that the law must be applicable to most of the situations. A situation may arise where the application of these rules leads to unreasonable or even non-executable requirements. Also, there can be very logical reasons why you wouldn't want to apply the rule temporarily. Then it may be desirable to be able to react quickly and not to have to change the law or the rules. The logical follow-up question is then to give an example. An example is a training self-reliance underwater. For personnel transported to a drilling platform by helicopter, training shall be given in self-reliance in case the helicopter pours into the water. Those trainings are given in a pool. During that training people get underwater and there is overpressure. The current regulations then require workers to have a diving certificate. It seems a heavy requirement to make a dive certificate mandatory for a small training for people who go to a drilling platform and who have to learn self-reliance in the water in a pool. It is a small category and Mr Ulenbelt will agree with me that an exemption is justified for such situations. Mr Ulenbelt would like to see in the legal history and the Acts that access to the prevention worker is self-evident, because in his view this is not clear in the text. Yes, of course. Access to the prevention worker must be absolutely self-evident. I would like to speak this out loud and clearly, and I would also like to highlight this in the communication: totally self-evident. The next question is why access to the three key experts is not regulated separately. Why is referral to other core experts not part of the basic contract? This proposal regulates access to the company doctor. If necessary, the company doctor shall involve other key experts and, if necessary, open access for workers to such experts. This access has also become part of the basic contract. That's always on the company doctor's reference. He may then grant the employee access to those experts. I think it's sufficiently secure that way. Mr Ulenbelt will also not propose direct access to key experts. It is intended to go through the company doctor because he can estimate to which key expert person should be referred if that is the case. Why doesn't the basic contract say that the company doctors have to carry out prevention tasks? To propose preventive measures to the employer and employee representation in the company is, in my view, part of the professionalism of the company doctor. I refer to the hog I was just talking about. This is also reflected in the core values drawn up by the Netherlands Association for Occupational and Occupational Medicine for industrial doctors. All the activities of the company doctor are aimed at preventing occupational diseases and occupational diseases, and at maintaining the sustainable employability of workers. The company doctor may, inter alia, advise the employer on appropriate preventive measures in the context of his advice to the RI&E. The government also believes that the current proposal already takes a number of measures to improve prevention. I refer to the introduction of a consultation hour, room for professional action and visits to the workplace if the company doctor thinks it is necessary. With the introduction of the basic contracts, the obligations already in force, such as periodic health research, are highlighted more strongly. I would also like to mention aspects such as the introduction of a right to second opinion, compulsory cooperation between prevention staff and key expert, strengthening the involvement of employers and employees in the provision of work services, giving consent to participation on the person and positioning of the prevention staff and the right of the company doctor to consult with participation. These are all handles for the Inspection SZW to maintain on the basic contract and its components. This may also have a preventive effect. In other words, I would like to respond immediately to the amendment, and I think it is in itself a nice proposal to include in the basic contract that the company doctor should advise the employer on prevention. I think that is important too, and I have just argued this. As far as I am concerned, the existing regulations and what is added to them when the Chamber adopts this law provide sufficient safeguards to advise the employer on prevention. The amendment is in line with the core values that lie below this bill, and I can imagine that the Court attaches great importance to the explicit inclusion of this advice on prevention. That is why I leave it to the Court to decide how to deal with this amendment. I will go straight to the other amendment of the SP, the Ulenbelt/Christmas amendment to item No. 13, on the reporting of occupational diseases. I said a few things about that. We do everything we can to ensure that occupational diseases are recognised and reported. In the note on the report, I have already explained why I do not want to lay down the obligation on the employer that is proposed here. It used to be. This led to a small number of reports. That was also mentioned in the debate. At that time, at the request of the social partners, the obligation to report occupational diseases is organised differently. Since then, company doctors have to report anonymised information on occupational diseases to employees, to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases (NCvB). In doing so, we have achieved a better understanding of common occupational diseases in the Netherlands. We are trying to improve this picture further, including the obligation to include in the basic contract that a company doctor should also have time to detect or identify, diagnose and report occupational diseases. If he spends time on that, it's declarable. The fact that little was reported in the past was not so strange, because there was a very clear negative incentive for the employer to turn himself in to the inspection. This might have shown that he had failed in his preventive role, and that would have led to questions of liability. The first-term contribution makes it very clear to me that this is an important point for the Chamber. I have therefore looked again at exactly what the ESC recommended. The ESC also says that it is important that more is reported and the ESC also makes a number of proposals for this. If I tick those proposals, I have to say that I have accepted them all in this proposal. More clearly stating that reporting is part of the company doctor's task package is included. That the time spent on the report is declarable is in it. The increased emphasis on the provision of periodic occupational health research has now been established. I therefore reject the amendment. The second reason is privacy. Employees must be protected at all times and their individual data must not end up with third parties. If the company doctor reports individual cases to the employer, the privacy is seriously at stake. International medical professional secrecy should be guaranteed. All in all, I do not feel that the company doctor, in addition to reporting to the NCvB, should impose a second obligation that has not worked in the past. I therefore reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u32	I've grown a lot in the time that those reports didn't work, but they did work in Rotterdam. At some point, the whole of the Netherlands thought that asbestos disease only occurred in Rotterdam. We had a medical labour inspector there who said to every employer he met: you have to report it. Of the 500 reports of that time, at least 400 came from Rotterdam. Well, that's what I want. The Minister's objection that employers and company doctors cannot deal with privacy in the field of occupational diseases is not relevant. There are protocols on how to deal with medical data in case of absenteeism by employer and arborts. That way, too. Even now, an employer does not need to hear that there are occupational diseases with him in the company, whether because of him or by someone else. International conventions require the Labour Inspectorate to take note of them. I don't want to do that by violating privacy. It's really an alert. The names do not need to be included, but section, circumstances, likelihood of repetition and so on should be mentioned. There's got to be something to do with that without violating privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u33	I am not sure whether Mr Ulenbelt's example of youth is perhaps not his youth, but his period of maturation in this field in Rotterdam is an argument pro or counter to this obligation. It then depended on the accidental circumstance that it happened in Rotterdam. The obligation as such did not result in any result. You impose an obligation on the one who doesn't do well by himself. So I'm concerned that the intention is good, but the effect is bad. Soon the impact will be less reported and less vision of occupational diseases, which will also reduce the chances of protecting workers from this, while, in my view, that is our common goal. The second argument, the privacy argument, is subsidiary, but relevant. There are good reasons for taking that concern very seriously. Mr Ulenbelt says you can come up with something. That may be so, but at the moment, in the form he proposes, Mr Ulenbelt's idea does not seem sensible to me, for two reasons. The first reason is the effect: there is a real danger that less is reported instead of more. This is bad for workers who need timely recognition of occupational diseases. The second reason is an unsolved privacy issue, which we do need to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u34	But how does the Minister intend to solve it? How will the responsible employer be told that there have been occupational diseases in the company so that he can walk to that department? I had suggested to the Minister that the company doctor report to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases which company or companies are involved; then the Labour Inspectorate can join them. However, the Minister also rejects that. In doing so, we are losing the signaling function of the occupational disease in order to address the factors that caused it. Does the Minister have any other solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u35	I don't think it's necessary for you to include this notification. We have just spoken about the company doctor. It already has the task of advising on prevention; that is one of its responsibilities. If he sees things that concern him in the company, he has reason to talk to the company or participation and to say: you should take the following measures. The company doctor already has that opportunity. I am afraid that the obligation that Mr Ulenbelt wants is precisely the result of non-reporting. What we both want, namely that the occupational physician should also take preventive action in the event of a diagnosis of occupational diseases, is already possible. That's already in his job. In his basic contract, the mission is to contribute to the prevention of occupational diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u36	The Minister shall leave the prevention amendment to the Court's discretion. If that amendment makes it, it could, but it's the core task of the company doctor... It's very principled; well, not very principled. From an accident at work, you know it happens; you can see it. In the case of an occupational disease, that's different. I know from my experience that most employers would like to know if there are one or more occupational diseases in their company. A sincere employer wants to know; then he will do something about it. That's what we're all about. The Minister does not provide for this in any way; yes, abstractly, at meta level. That's not gonna work, like I showed you with the UV cancer case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u37	I have received the sad news that Mr Ulenbelt is planning to enjoy a well-earned pension at some point, so I take note that I will not have much of this kind of legislative consultation with him anymore. When he puts on a point that heavy, you have to look into the matter. Here in front of me is the dissertation dealing with exposure to chemicals. That is Mr Ulenbelt's thesis from 1991. In it he writes about himself: my institution in the execution of the project has been to combine stubbornness with inquisitiveness; whether that has been done, I leave it to the opinion of the readers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u38	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u39	So he has already reviewed himself a bit in his own dissertation and leaves the judgment to the readers. As I leave the opinion on his amendment to the Chamber. I have already argued that prevention is already in the law, but that I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. If he feels more reassured because it is in the company doctor's responsibilities, we can both be happy. Moreover, I have of course already promised to look at the possibilities of reporting occupational disease to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases at a slightly lower level, in order to create added value for preventive or enforcement measures. So I think we are really striving for the same thing here. By reporting more in this way, you can have even more preventive effect, in addition to that task of the company doctor in Mr Ulenbelt's example, without risking the recurring situation that has been investigated in the dissertation, where it was also dependent on individuals if much was reported but still not reported in the large part of the cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Ulenbelt, I didn't even know you wrote a dissertation. And that's what they're quoting from!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u41	I can recommend it to anyone. It's not very easy to read, I have to say right away. We've had a long vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u42	It does have a red cover!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u43	Minister, you wanted to recommend something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u44	I'm going to quote a little more later. I await Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u45	It would be nice if even the answers to my questions were already in Mr Ulenbelt's dissertation. Then it starts to be a truly red book! I sympathise with the Minister's concern that Mr Ulenbelt's amendment and Mr Kerstens' amendment to the good cause will achieve the opposite. The authors do not want that, and my group does not want that either. There are three ways in which a feedback can take place in the event of an occupational disease. The first is that the employee or former employee simply discusses this with his former boss. That's someone's choice. The company doctor can't do that. I'm curious. Does that happen all the time? Are there any figures available? The second way is through the preventive role of the company doctor. If the desired result is not yet achieved through these two tracks, then you want to do something with that wealth of information. That's the third way. I think that's what the colleagues are looking for. The Minister does not consider the instrument mentioned in the amendment to be the right one. Would the Minister be willing to take another look at this? If not, I'll come up with a motion in second term, but I don't really think that's necessary. There is discomfort about the fact that the first two tracks still do not provide sufficient feedback to sectors. I liked Mr Ulenbelt's example of UV-resistant film. Maybe companies don't know it or they don't reconnect it to the sector. How can we make another battle there without getting into the pitfalls of the past? I do have a wide discomfort. I found that the Minister argued quite convincingly what the risks of the amendment were. But at the same time he agrees with the concern expressed. Can I ask the Minister to do something with this? It doesn't have to be in this law. I don't think it's gonna stay with what we have right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u46	Sure. I was trying to give it a little bit in my third answer. In July, I sent a letter informing the Chamber about the results of the exploration for a detailed record of occupational diseases. In the current reporting system, data are recorded nationally and then processed into statistical information, including by sector and by profession. This information and knowledge dissemination can be better used to set up sectoral prevention policies. I think that's the way it goes in a lot of cases. It is not usually the case that one individual company is faced with a particular occupational disease. A way of working in a particular sub-sector can often lead to the detection of an occupational disease many years later. Then it is very worthwhile if you can also implement preventive policies at the level of such a sub-sector, in addition to the possibilities that already exist. There's still a profit to be made. I think it's worth going through with that, too. I will come to Mr Kerstens' question later on, how to help people get their rights many years later. In addition, and perhaps even more importantly, there is the question: how can you prevent more people from facing such an occupational disease? In that context, I do want to see, without it being traceable to individuals, there I see really big problems looking at whether you can promote more specific prevention policies with this aggregated information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u47	That point of privacy also weighs heavily in my group, but I still have the impression that more opportunities need to be exploited. I welcome the Minister's answer, but can he perhaps also say something about the timetable he envisages?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u48	I can certainly say something about that, but in order to ensure that this is also a communication that stands for something, I will do so in the second term. I need to see what a logical time frame it is to get back to that, but I will definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u49	I would like to add something to this subject. I share the Minister's view that Mr Ulenbelt's amendment could harm the patient's medical confidentiality and privacy. But we all share the feeling that we need to do more in the area of prevention. I spoke in my term of office about the risk assessment and inventory. The Minister has already given some thought to this. I would like to increase both the expertise of the inspection and the company doctor on the latest state of occupational diseases. In this way, prevention can be improved and many occupational diseases prevented. The RI&E, the risk inventory and evaluation, is now often a sort of check-off list, including for inspection purposes. That can't be the intention. If the latest state of the art and the latest knowledge of occupational diseases are present, many occupational diseases can be prevented. I ask the Minister to include this in the whole story he has just given and in the proposals he has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u50	Sure, but the inspection is about a further phase. Expertise is extremely important. In my view, there is sufficient knowledge at the inspection, but it can certainly be improved. Mrs Schut-Welkins did not say it aloud, but her words might suggest that this is not the case in the supervision of the RI&E. My impression is that there is indeed a great deal of specific expertise. Inspectors shall be trained and retrained permanently. The Inspection SZW really does a lot on that point. In addition to regular training programmes, refresher courses and modules focus on more specific topics. Intervisions and knowledge meetings are organised with specialist inspectors and experts in various fields, such as biological agents, work equipment, psychosocial workload, dangerous substances, etc. The inspectors are therefore really immersed in the latest knowledge of the matter. Mrs Schut-Thank you very well, but I hope I have been able to reassure her a little about what we are all doing on that point. I shall return to the Heerma c.s motion for a resolution before the budget debate. (34475-XV, No. 9) on the complexity of inspection tasks and capacity adequacy. If I may take that motion in such a way that it also calls for this element to be looked at, it will be taken into account. Anyway, maybe I'll interpret too much. For now, the answer is that a great deal is being done to promote expertise among inspectors. We are very aware that science is progressing and that inspectors therefore need to be trained and trained each time, for example in new knowledge about dangerous substances, biological agents and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u51	We share the same goal and solution, but many international research shows that the Netherlands is lagging behind in the field of expertise development on occupational diseases. As far as I'm concerned, we need to make up for this delay as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u52	At least I don't see that delay at the inspection. I would therefore like to hear from Mrs Schut-Because of the delay she means, otherwise I feel obliged to defend the inspectors, who may not have been attacked by her at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u53	It is a broad question of the backwardness of knowledge and development on occupational diseases. I have said that it is partly because of the way in which we organized it in the Netherlands. In the countries around us much more is being developed in knowledge about occupational diseases, while in the Netherlands we are very behind in this field. I am talking about the delay in the broad and therefore not specifically about the role of supervision or the role of the company doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u54	In the broad sense, the proposals I make here, together with the second track of non-legislative measures, are an attempt to further improve the whole of occupational health care and thus also to strengthen the prevention of occupational diseases, precisely because of the independent position of the occupational physician, by the second opinion and by the basic contract. These steps, I think, are all in the direction of what Mrs Schut is advocating here. The VVD also asks: can azzp'er rely on occupational health care at the employer's expense; that is not the intention? What about temporary workers when they work for different borrowers? For the Working Conditions Act, not the formal but the factual situation is decisive when it comes to the question of who is an employer. If azzp'er works under authority and cannot determine his own working conditions, he is actually an employee. In that case, he can also appeal to occupational health care. The client is then actually an employer with all associated duties. A realzzp'er, who therefore does not work under authority, is himself responsible and can use sectoral or regional initiatives at its own expense. It is also always possible to consult a company doctor at your own initiative and at your own expense. As far as temporary work organisations are concerned, the employer is not the lender but the user under the Working Conditions Act. The temporary worker can go to the company doctor with the employer concerned. It is therefore necessary to opt for the employer in which the temporary worker works at that time. That's his actual employer. The Working Conditions Act looks at the actual situation. That also makes sense, because that is about the safety of work. Temporary agency Randstad is not in a position to respond in the same way as the user of the work. It's also useful. If the first is a temp, the second is a regular employee, the third is a payroller and the fourth is a quasi-zzp'er, wouldn't you like them to work together in a healthy way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u55	Does the Minister not expect, like the VVD, that this will cause huge implementation problems? What if a temp works for three different borrowers or if a zzp'er works for three different bosses? Isn't there a struggle in the context of where you're going and who's responsible, should a disease arise from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u56	I do not expect that, because even now the actual situation is decisive for the Working Conditions Act. Even now, a zzp'er can appeal to the company doctor in case he is not a real zzp'er but someone who works under authority. That is where there is no change. The change is in the positioning of the company doctor, the second opinion and the basic contract, but the change is not in the position of azzp'er or a temp. The Working Conditions Act already looks at the actual situation. I think that's a fair choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u57	Access to the company doctor is being widened. A person who is actually an employee, even if he is a temporary worker or a social worker, can go to the company doctor, even if there is no absenteeism. That's gonna be a huge burden, isn't it? Companies will wonder: who will you go to and who will pay the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u58	I don't think so. I think it is in the interests of workers and of companies that, in such a case, where there is no absenteeism yet but there is a threat, or in which work is insecure, you go to the company doctor. Of course, a company should welcome that. So I don't see a situation in which the bill is being argued. In this situation azzp'er himself calls the doorbell. He says: I'm not sick and I'm not failing, but I'm worried about this way of working and I want to talk about that. If you want to rule out that situation, you have much more risk of default later. Then the costs and the burdens are much greater. If you want to make full use of the power of the system, it is in the interests of the employer and employee that there is also access to the company doctor during the pre-retirement phase. "Prevention is better than cure" has become a cliché for a reason. It would then be very strange to withhold that from a temp or from a zzp'er who actually works under authority and who should therefore be treated as an employee. The VVD also asks why we have come up with a second opinion: no one is asking for it and the possibility is already there. It is common in regular care, but we make it explicit that it can also be dealt with in occupational health care. With this we support the position of the company doctor, both in relation to the employee and in positioning to the regular care. I think the difference between a UVW expert opinion and a second opinion at a company doctor is that it's about quite different situations. The second opinion concerns the opinion of a second company doctor on an occupational health issue. This could be the whole width of the box. The UWV does not employ company doctors. The second opinion we have taken here, as elsewhere in medicine, aims to give the patient or client room to ask another doctor for an opinion on his state of health. Unlike an expert opinion, it can only be requested on the employee's initiative. It is carried out exclusively by another company doctor or other health service. It offers the possibility to submit a broader palette of questions than those related to failure, usually requested if there is any uncertainty about complaints, questions and causes in relation to work. So it's about occupational health questions. That is why there is no overlap in our view. The expert opinion-UWV is about the re-integration process and is intended to facilitate that process if it stagnates during the first two years of illness. So that is a different situation and it also has another purpose. Why is there no second opinion for the employer? I hope I have already indicated this. It's really for the sake of the questions that an employee can have. There are still uncertainties about the cause. As with regular care, it is good to be able to ask for a second opinion. The VVD says it's already there and that little use is made of it. I used to tend to say that I hadn't touched the cookies, that although there was only one in the drum and that my brother had also touched the cookies. If you use three different internal conflicting arguments at once, your mother says at some point: this is an excuse. In this case, it's about recording that people are entitled to a second opinion, which equals it to normal care. It's a very simple starting point. As far as I am concerned, it is independent of whether much or little use is made of it. In general, we do not have to worry so much about this. It is used if there is cause for it. In addition, it must not, of course, lead to abuse by queryers who have another conflict with their employer and who therefore request a second opinion. In this respect, Mr Van Weyenberg's first-term interpretation was completely spot-on. That's why that restriction came in. Those are the major interests that are at stake. In general, the expectation and experience in curative care are that people handle it very wisely and that it adds something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u59	I agree with the Minister that the reason why you shouldn't do it is not that there is little use of it, but I really wonder what the added value of second opinion is if you have so many more instruments. I am thinking, for example, of the expert opinion of the UWV that an employee can invoke. What is the added value of this second opinion in relation to that instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u60	It seems to me that this is about other situations. It is not about the role of the UWV but about the company doctor and his or her opinion on the cause or nature of the complaints. It may be that someone wants to discuss his case with another company doctor again, and that is what makes that second opinion possible, not more, but not less. I believe that it does meet a need, even though it will not be used by everyone at all times and everywhere. That is not the case in ordinary health care. It's nice and important to have that opportunity. Mr. Chairman. The VVD spokesperson asks how the enforcement of a possible penalty clause will take place. Of course, more questions have been asked about this. Why is this one in there? Is the provision even clear enough? It is true that it is not possible to say in what cases and in what way it is going to happen. It is good to put a hook in the law now in case it turns out that this is not working properly. I will at least say that there will be a veil and that it will not happen without the Chamber. Let us make full use of the evaluation to see whether there is indeed reason and reason to do so. You don't have to change the whole law, because you can come to the conclusion with the Chamber that it is necessary to use the penalty clause. I see that this is one of those remarks that provokes interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u61	In fact, while I still have to deal with the Minister's disenfranchisement about his behaviour around cookies, I have to come up with an interruption on this point. By the way, I see a relationship with how my son deals with the cookie jar. That is why it has been well struck by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u62	An Arabic expression is: a son who looks like his father has done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u63	I don't think I'm going to go through with this equation. This debomination, of course, says something about the nature of the minister, even though he is now trying to put it back on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u64	Sure, but you brought it up yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u65	I don't remember much of my own handling cookie drums, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u66	I didn't want to drag your son into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u67	No, that's true. You tried to drag yourself into it. I don't know if I'm doing my son a favor with this. Mr. Chairman. Given the questions that have been asked, that commitment about the veil is very good. However, the fact that the Minister states this raises the question of the added value of including the provision in the law that you will look at it in front of the veil in relation to the possibility that you might look at it legally at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u68	I think there are two arguments. By including the possibility you show and stress how serious that obligation should be taken. That's an important message to the field. The second argument is that you do not have to go through a whole legislative process if you come to the conclusion on the basis of the evaluation that it is necessary. That question about the veil is certainly justified, given its predictability and transparency. In view of this, I think you can say: we think it is necessary to create that possibility. It does indeed have the disadvantage of being able to agree with the speakers that you are not yet able to materialize in which hole the pallet should fall. That's what you need that evaluation for. I think these two advantages are relevant, because first of all, you give the clear message that the legislator takes this obligation very seriously and secondly, you create the possibility that the provision will be quickly used as a Chamber and government that both consider necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u69	Isn't it part of such an evaluation that you look at what follow-up steps should be taken at that point? If you announce at this stage that possible legal follow-up steps can be taken after the evaluation, surely that will give you the same kind of clarity. In theory, you can include this kind of clause in any law. We do not, because it goes without saying that you will take additional legal measures if an evaluation shows that something is not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u70	I don't entirely agree with you. If you create an obligation, there is often already a penalty. This deviates from that, because we are still postponing this sanction. Why do we do that? Because it's in itself already in the company doctor's job description. Company doctors take an oath that weighs much more than many of the legal obligations. It's a stick behind the door. I see good reasons not to compare this proposal with all kinds of other laws. Normally you say: there is an obligation so there is enforcement and it looks like sister and everything, or you say: there is no obligation. In this case, the obligation is in fact already in place, because it concerns company doctors who have a duty to report it. That is why I do not think that there is a need for a fine, but I do not want to exclude the remedy either. If it turns out to be necessary, it's nice if you don't have to follow a whole piece of legislation that can take just a year. This legal process has also been going on for a long time. The opinion was requested more than two years ago. Such a trajectory has many feet in the earth and then I think it is also profitable for the Chamber to be able to react quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u71	I find this reasoning complicated for two reasons. First of all, I'm still not convinced that this fine is going to work for doctors. I think that's a lot. Many questions have rightly been asked, and it has rightly been said that this is totally untenable, to name but a few. Secondly, the Minister just said: you can't rule out that I want it then. If we are going to incorporate into laws everything that we do not rule out as a possible response to the non-working of a law, then from now on we will get a lot of notes from the cabinet in legislative proposals. I have difficulty with such an open form of a delegation clause, just legally. Now the Minister is a lawyer, and I'm just a simple economist, so I say this with caution, but on behalf of a party that has this in the genes. I find it complicated to say: I don't rule out wanting anything at any time. I've been able to handle dozens of laws with this minister. If this were to be the argument for brackets, we would have had a lot of brackets in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u72	The common experience of Mr Van Weyenberg and myself shows that I do not use this lightly at all. On the basis of Mr Van Weyenberg's speech, you would almost think that I would include a few of those provisions in every law, as pins on the bike path, but that is not the case! In all these laws, one clear choice has always been made: do or do not. Here the situation is different. I hope and expect that the provision will lead to more notifications. I would like to give the profession time and space to improve on this point. That is the goal that we share from left to right: we want to be reported. In the note following the report, I advocate an evaluation in 2020. That's also the time we have to offer. Then we will see whether this positive development has indeed taken place. Should the notification not improve and the possibility of enforcement be introduced, the Inspection SZW will monitor this. A fine may be involved, as the inspection can very often impose fines. I don't see this as something we do every time. It has not been necessary in dozens of laws of the past, but in this I see every reason to do so. If I did it again tomorrow, if I did it with every bill, it would be complicated, and I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. But this is a profession with a clear professional, a group which is highly motivated to report. We see that this is not happening enough now and so we make it through the basic contract a task for which they are also paid nicely. It's gonna be declarable to report occupational diseases. I expect that we will see this happening in the years to come. If that is not the case, enforcement can be discussed. Hence this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u73	Legally and in terms of whether this is the right role, I think you should be very cautious about this. I'm going to chew on this and I'm not completely convinced, I'm honest. The Minister has made a second assumption. Apparently, he already knows that the fine is an instrument if the number of notifications does not increase. That increase is a wish we share. Where does the Minister derive the confidence that a fine for doctors works at all? I don't think we can verify at all whether or not they're doing it. The Minister also wrote a number of things about this in the written preparation of this debate. How does he think this is gonna work, regardless of whether I agree with the legal technique? What gives the Minister the confidence that this will probably be the instrument to use? It seems very complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u74	You're putting it very wide now. Is a doctor's fine a good idea? No, it is not a fine for doctors, but it is a matter of cases where the inspection finds that a company doctor has violated his obligation by not reporting. You can see that there is still too little report and you can see company doctors avoiding their obligation. If people evade a legal obligation, it may be useful for them to follow a sanction. Is that certain? No, the evaluation will first have to show whether the number of reports is not just rising, as I expect and hope. If that is not the case, the evaluation will have to show why. If there is another cause, you should not impose a fine at all on the doctor; then you should address the other cause. If there are company doctors who do not comply with that legal obligation, I find it logical, also in the light of the legal system, that this has consequences. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that negative financial incentives should be applied very specifically. In general terms, a fine for doctors will not pay. That is why I began my speech by expressing my appreciation for the company doctors and the work they are doing and expressing the confidence that, as their position is further strengthened and better secured, they will make greater use of the opportunity to report. That's how I look at it. The VVD asks why the bill includes a right of consent for the appointment of the prevention officer. You can see in many companies that employees are very little informed about the role and tasks of the employee and that the involvement of the prevention worker is sometimes limited. I think it is in everyone's interest that the whole phenomenon gets more out of the way, that people are aware that there is a prevention worker working for your health in the company. It is precisely by giving the works council, the participation body, a role that you strengthen. Then he becomes more "ours" from the employees. This right of assent strengthens the relationship of trust that is needed. This means not only that there is support, but also that there is co-responsibility in the participation for the proper functioning of this prevention worker and that his work is taken seriously. I believe that in the long term this will help to prevent absenteeism with all the costs for employers. Again, prevention is better than cure. The VVD calls for attention to be paid to better cooperation between occupational health care and curative care. I very much agree with that. It is extremely important that this cooperation is there and where possible improved. It is precisely in the prevention of long-term absenteeism that taking the context of work into account is very important. We're doing everything we can. We have organised structural consultations between the various professionals, precisely in order to encourage this exchange of practice. In this consultation, the professional associations identified concrete steps, such as improving the exchange of information, raising awareness of referral criteria and the joint organisation of symposia and congresses. I very much welcome this initiative from the sectors themselves. I also promote the development of knowledge about work and health through the involvement of company doctors in the drafting of multidisciplinary guidelines. I also support the development of the care module. In particular, the use of these multidisciplinary guidelines helps to ensure proper and adequate treatment of patients who otherwise continue to circle care unnecessarily, because diagnosis and treatment are simply inadequate. I will also support this type of activity in the coming years. As far as that is concerned, the work plan is already in progress. I am certainly prepared to put these activities together in the letter to the Chamber. I would like to talk to the professionals about the state of play of these concrete activities and possible other possibilities. I very much agree with Mrs Schut that this is worthwhile. I want to work for that, in addition to what we are already doing for it. The PvdA urges, with a number of other parties, to consider possibilities to extend the inspection. That is a recognizable point from Mr Kerstens. For the budgetary treatment I will inform the Chamber about the implementation of the Heerma motion, which looks at the complexity and adequacy of the capacity of the Inspection SZW. The PvdA also calls for an independent institution that helps workers to obtain their rights more quickly in the suspicion of an occupational disease and calls for a proposal for budgetary treatment. As you know, I am already working on this very important subject. I understand the question. This is a very short time. I will do my utmost to achieve this, but consultation with interested parties, including the social partners, must be careful. I do not think that I can come forward with a concrete proposal for the budget, but I can then share the state of affairs with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u75	I understand. The Minister referred for a moment to the consultation with the social partners, which should take shape. Has the meeting started yet? Can he say that he will never be able to do that again for the budget? Or does he say: we are already a few steps away, but maybe it will be January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u76	In all honesty, I really am not ready for a concrete proposal. It's very sensitive and very important. With the aim that people can get their rights, rather than now often their next of kin, I very much agree. The way in which two studies have been carried out. But I really can't promise to come up with a proposal; that wouldn't be real. It is not up to him whether there is consultation or not, this subject has been raised several times. I am afraid to say anything more than the state of play in the budgetary procedure. Because if you're gonna do this, it's gonna have to be done right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u77	Of course. I am not asking the Minister for a genuine commitment. It is good that he clarifies what he is doing and that it is not real to say that it is for budgetary treatment. We're probably not getting any further than a state of affairs. Can the Minister at least estimate how many weeks or months after the budget we might be able to look at something more than a state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u78	If I can say more about that, I will take it into account in the current situation. The Labour Party is asking whether four years is not too long. That is actually the opposite of the discussion we have just had. Shouldn't that deadline be shortened, couldn't it be in two years? I think that with the proposals that are now before us, we are taking a number of measures to encourage reporting. I am confident that this will create the framework conditions that will really improve it. That measure will enter into force in mid-2018 after a transitional period for the conclusion of new basic contracts. Effects can therefore be seen in the figures of 2019. An evaluation by 2020 is therefore really the first time to be able to do so. This broad evaluation will be the basis for a decision on whether or not to introduce a fine, with a veil on it. Well, then you'd have to be able to interpret the numbers. If there is a reduction in the number of occupational diseases reported, this may mean that occupational diseases are better, for example through increased prevention, or it may mean that fewer are reported. In other words, we should not think too lightly about that. It is fair to make that evaluation by 2020. The PvdA also asked how I look at the position of flex workers,zzp'ers, payrollers, agency workers and so on. In reply to a question from Mrs Schut, I have just said that factual circumstances determine the functioning of the law. This means that people who actually work as an employee somewhere have the same rights as others, in terms of access to occupational medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u79	The minister actually used the term a few times. Does he have any idea whether it really is the case that employers, for example, have in their contracts with employment services that temporary workers, payroll workers can simply use the facilities under that contract? I have my own doubts about that, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u80	I can't answer that question right now. But then it is all the more important that we exchange it so explicitly here. I will check whether I have more information on this specific question in the second term. But the system of the law is in itself crystal clear. Let's get that straight. Moreover, the number of increased accidents in construction certainly worries me. One of the questions I have is what caused it. There is more economic activity and therefore more accidents as a result of the build-up, but the number has risen very much. Does this have to do with other forms of work and with more flexibility? Does it have anything to do with migrant workers and language problems? I think we need to know that in order to be able to respond adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u81	Your previous question was not really a final one, Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u82	The Minister was suddenly going to say something else, which I am very pleased with, because I am also concerned about these accidents in the construction sector. I myself have the feeling that the fluctuating flexibilisation is a factor in this. The Minister would like to know more about that. He's wondering a few things. Does he ask other people that question? Can we therefore look forward to a letter from the Minister in a while, or an investigation or the results of an investigation, which shows that he has not only wondered, but that he has also dived into it and why it is so and what might be done about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u83	I asked the inspection to see if she actually sees more than just those figures. If there's any reason to say there's something behind it, then I won't keep it behind us, because then we'll have to do something with it. Mr Kerstens asked whether it would work in practice if it had to work and that flex workers could use company doctors in the same way. The question is whether companies are sufficiently open to this. I don't know. But because when I see him, I often think about the construction and this is a concern with which I walk around, I give this example. However, we must always look at how things really are in practice. I have already said something about the serious interests in not giving a second opinion. Mr Van Weyenberg's interpretation is correct. Mr Van Weyenberg asked why Article 28a is also applicable tozzp'ers. The system of administrative fines assumes that an offender is subject to a higher fine for an employer, anzzp'er and, to a lesser extent, an employee in the event of repeated infringement, in the event of repeated infringement. In the recent past, government and supervisory authorities have also expressed the wish to achieve even more robust responses, especially in the event of serious recidivism, such as temporary cessation of work. This was taken into account in the Law tightening enforcement and sanctioning policy SZW legislation. The temporary cessation is therefore an additional measure which, in the event of a repeated infringement, always imposes an administrative penalty. Article 28a now only concerns employers. By mistake, it is not included that recidivism can play equally withzzp'ers. For that latter group there is a higher administrative penalty, but temporary cessation as an additional measure is not possible. This could make it more attractive for clients or main contractors to deviate tozzp'ers. After all, an employer who repeatedly fails is confronted at some point with a temporary cessation, whereas that is not possible forzzp'ers at the moment. I believe that this is an omission and not so much a major policy change, which perhaps could have been avoided by the sanctions laws at the time. I am now getting the impression that we do not have any information on the contracts forzzp'ers and agency workers. We can include them in the evaluation anyway. We will try to gather information on this in the interim. Mr Kerstens also asked whether this could be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u84	There is, of course, a difference between people who, according to the law, should simply be covered by the health care system because they are employed by a company, albeit with a temporary contract, and a zzp'er. I hope the Minister will continue to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u85	There is a difference between the realzzp'er who doesn't work under authority and therefore has to do his own work, also in terms of occupational health, and thezzp'er who does work under authority and therefore, in fact, for the Working Conditions Act, must be regarded as an employee and therefore also have access to occupational health care. I ask the Chamber to bear in mind that, when I speak in this context aboutzzp'ers, I keep two groups apart, no matter how complicated that may actually be. The concrete proposal for an independent institute in the context of damage recovery will follow by February 2017. When I talk slowly, all the answers come to me like this. At the same time, Madam President, I note that you are almost satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u86	You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u87	We feel each other. We have been asked about the plan to increase the level of company doctors and whether the insurance doctors are included. The quartermaster is on schedule with his work and expects to present his report to me in October. The question is, of course, whether he succeeds in finding sufficient support in the field. It seems that in 2016 for the first time a few more doctors will be trained as a company doctor. At least that's good. The quartermaster also looks at the relationship with insurance doctors in his field exploration. He has the freedom to advise on that. A question has been asked about the open mind regarding funding. I can't stop the quartermaster if he wants to advise on that. Should funding be a theme in his final advice, we will notice and respond to it. I didn't forbid him. We have talked about the duty of reporting and privacy and about the important interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u88	The reason why I asked the question about funding is that it seems that the conclusion is already included in the mandate, but I am pleased with what the Minister says. One can go on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u89	If Mr Van Weyenberg is happy, I will not respond anymore, because I can only cause problems! We've talked about the duty of reporting. I referred to the second opinion for the employer, although briefly, in response to Mr Heerma's speech. This brings me to the end of the first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u90	That's what I thought. There is one more question about the Ulenbelt/Tanamal amendment to item No. 11. I think you have said something about this, but I would like to ask you, for the sake of clarity, what is the verdict on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u91	Let's check it out. I have given 'ruling chamber' to the amendment proposing to include prevention in the basic contract. I understand that we are talking about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u92	Then we have come to the second term with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his very clear explanation of access to the prevention worker. He said it's self-evident. In practice there may be problems, but this is clear in the legal history what the Minister and Parliament meant by that. The same applies to access to other experts of the health service. If the company doctor refers someone to one of the other experts from the health service, that's part of the basic contract. That clarity is beautiful. The Minister also recognises the importance of prevention. I honestly didn't doubt that. He left the opinion on the amendment on this point to the Chamber, but in his reply he was quite sympathetic to do so. I like that. One point that remains is the notification of occupational diseases. The minister says you have to rely on the professionalism of the company doctor. I would like to do that, but although the company doctor becomes more independent in a number of respects, the company doctor or his occupational health service remains in a contractual relationship with the employer. The employer may also employ another service. That is the competition that was introduced at the time. The minister read my dissertation, I noticed. He can also see what a contractual relationship between unequal parties can bring about. They were toxicologists employed by large chemical companies, who did not use their knowledge independently but did so in the interests of their employer. Now the Dutch Association for Occupational and Occupational Medicine writes to us: "Our experience shows that reporting occupational diseases is not appreciated in many cases, let alone encouraged by employers. They are also the principals of the relevant health service provider or service provider. company doctor, which can sometimes lead to tension in their relationship." That tension in the relationship is not removed by this bill. Now we are going to offer the consultant, because that has become the company doctor, a fine I am not in favour of, while the employer should in his contract with the occupational health service arrange the notification of occupational diseases. If the responsible employer does not do so correctly, the fine should be paid there rather than to the consultant. I am particularly concerned, however, that an employer should want to know whether there have been occupational diseases in the company. That's part of his understanding of how to handle your people in a healthy way. The only way to achieve this is to lay down the responsibility for reporting occupational diseases to the employer. Again, not with the aim of imposing fines, but above all to remind the employer of his duty to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The profit of this debate is that everyone wants to prevent illness, that we all see that people who are sick want to get back to work and that the company doctor can help them get back to work as soon as they are recovered. The absenteeism in the Netherlands is still very high. The prevention of occupational diseases is not sufficiently developed compared to other countries around us. So there's still a lot of profit to be made. The question is whether this is the case with this bill. I've been quite critical, including in the interruptions. I had a lot of questions. So I have also tabled a number of amendments, which are not yet complete; they may come to the spokesperson's office at any time in order to reverse matters in the legislative proposal that we do not think there is sufficient added value. I am thinking, for example, of the enforcement of the reporting obligation, which we discussed and of the appointment of the prevention officer. Of a number of other things we say: it is a lot polder, a lot of consultation and consent, but does not really give the added value we would like to see in the care of the company doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u95	We are dealing here with a bill that is defended by Minister Asscher, of a cabinet the VVD itself is part of. I have to say that it is then a little too vague to say in the second term: a number of amendments. I would like to speak with each other about the amendments that have been tabled, about why they have been tabled and, above all, about which of these amendments are crucial for the VVD to vote for or against this bill. I would therefore like to make a further point. We're discussing a bill here. What changes are there then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u96	There are a lot of amendments, but I do not have them right now. I am thinking, for example, of an amendment to remove the appointment of the prevention officer from the law, because I do not see what this adds to the improvement of care. There is an amendment on the maintenance of the basic contract. But all these amendments have an equal starting point and all relate to elements that I have also appointed. I therefore hope that during this debate the amendments will be passed so that the Chamber can take note of them as soon as possible. I can also give them to the Chamber and have them copied during the debate so that Members can take note of them. Unfortunately, they're not finished yet. However, all the amendments apply the same criterion: we have tested the legislative proposal for added value in the care of workers. We do not see this added value in each of the subjects covered by the various amendments. The question then is, of course, how many of these amendments will make it. That determines whether we will eventually vote for or against the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mr Van Weyenberg has an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u98	I think it's complicated. We are having a wide-ranging debate here and the spokesperson of the coalition party is tabling amendments. Of course, that's her right. However, I would like to be able to ask her about these amendments in her term. What Mrs. Schut does is allowed. But I don't like it. I propose that the debate be suspended for a short time until the amendments arrive. Then I can ask her questions about the amendments at the interrupting microphone. I'd like that. We're talking about the biggest government party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u99	I can imagine that very well, but I can't tell you how long that's gonna take. I don't know. I can send the amendments I have to the spokesmen so that they can be heard. Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u100	It is also important that the Minister responds to it. It is also important that the other groups should be able to give their opinion. Anyway, that's a practical problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u101	I have a slightly different proposal from the D66 spokesperson's proposal. I think it is particularly important for the Minister to be able to pre-advise on the amendments. D66 and the CDA are also working on an amendment. It may happen that an amendment is too late...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u102	It's customary, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u103	... but I do not think it would be desirable if a whole series of amendments could not be pre-advised and if this had yet to be done in writing before the vote. We can still make an order proposal in the Minister's second term. I have another follow-up question: which of the pending amendments are crucial for the VVD in the assessment of the legislative proposal? Almost Chamberwide is the opinion that the legislative proposal brings with it a number of improvements. What points should be made in relation to the VVD in order to finally be able to support the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u104	It depends on how much support I get and what the Minister's opinion on the amendments is. In principle, however, I will table the amendments because they are all important to us in order to finally be able to support the legislative proposal. The amendments lead to the deletion of part of the legislative proposal, which is why I do not expect the Minister to be very warm about it. I'll give you that warning. I have a number of proposals of my own. I also have a motion here that I would like to table, because I believe that a lot can change outside the law and that is why there is no need for a change of law. I can, however, say that the amendments are actually a reversal of the legislative proposal and I do not expect much support from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u105	This is "potentially destructive" to characterise, when I hear it like that. It's just an attempt to rescind the bill, if I understand correctly. That is what Mrs Schut really wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u106	We're not in favour of this law. I wanted to wait for this discussion in part to reach a final verdict on the tabling of the amendments. In view of this discussion, I am still not convinced of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u107	Then apparently it's just a destructive amendment. It's okay. Again, that is the right of the VVD, but that is remarkable in a government party. What I find complicated is not only that the amendments are not there, but that Mrs Schut does not list the list of what she is going to do. So I'm just asking questions. Mrs. Schut, are you going to demolish the right of access to a second opinion from the bill? Are you going to demolish the access to the consultation period? There's always access to the site? You just mentioned a few things that you might call procedural, but the second opinion, access and prevention are key issues in the law. Are you going to tear down the prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u108	I've been interrupting the Secretary of State on the second opinion. I have said that there is already a possibility to ask the UWV for an expert opinion and ask if there is a overlap. So I do not see the added value of the second opinion in this. The Minister doesn't think so. He says that this added value is there, because it is about other elements. I don't share that. That is indeed an amendment I would like to table. At the same time, I would also like to table an amendment on, for example, the right of the company doctor to consult with the works council. I think it's always possible. Do you have to legally anchor that? Are these not things that create enormous administrative burdens, but ultimately have little practical added value to the quality of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u109	I like this, because I'd like to know what's going on. The only conclusion is that the line of the VVD seems to be: there is no problem at all and so it takes out any form of law and improvement around the occupational health care system. I note that the VVD really considers any proposal made by the cabinet in which the VVD is sitting to be unnecessary. That is what I find destructive amendments. Again, that's okay, but I think the VVD should just vote against the law. I find this disappointing, Mrs Schut, because you are denying that many company doctors are now saying that things are not going well? We are given examples of this. At the moment, even in the lobby of the employers' organizations, there is only one concern and it seems to be fine. Do you not close your eyes to the urgency felt in practice to take steps forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u110	Quite the contrary, quite the contrary! I am very motivated to improve occupational health care. I regularly walk with a company doctor or I go to company medical days to make sure that I can follow all the developments there and include in proposals I make here. I would also like to make a motion to ensure, for example, that cooperation between curative and occupational health care, i.e. between the specialist and the general practitioner, improves, because I think that this really brings industrial health care, occupational health care, to a higher level. So I certainly have proposals and some ideas, but I think that the ideas set out in this bill are a great deal of red tape for companies. Because of this amount of extra tax, companies do not get involved in hiring employees. My fear is that this will ultimately do nothing for occupational health care. That is also the fear of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u111	The VVD probably comes up with a lot of amendments to scrap things out of the law. Is there perhaps one amendment in which Mrs Schut-Welkenn, the VVD, proposes to improve the position of the workers, to increase the involvement of employers and employees, to strengthen prevention, to increase the number of occupational disease reports? Because of the latter, we all say, including the VVD, that this is so important. Apart from all these destructive amendments, is there perhaps one in which the VVD says that it should be in the law, because we all consider it important to work healthy and to get your pension healthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u112	I share that with Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party: working healthy until retirement and preferably afterwards, so that you do not get sick after your retirement because of your work. That is what I am trying to do, but I do not think that this will be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u113	Employees and employers must do so themselves, whether at individual or collective level. All we can say is that there is strong supervision if they do not. I share that and I have made proposals for that. At the same time, I would point out that there must be a cultural change now that the general practitioner and the specialist cannot find the company doctor. However, this cannot be regulated by law either. I have put forward a proposal for this, which has also been co-signed by Mrs Tanamal, a colleague of Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u114	It is true that the Labour Party is fine with that motion. It belongs to one of the two traces of the Minister's policy in this area: the extra-legal steps that you can take. The other track is part of a two-track policy that you also do something on the other track if you want to stay a little in balance for example is strengthening the position of the company doctor or arbo-doctor. I find it disappointing that the VVD confesses with its mouth that it is important for people to get a healthy pension and that there is attention to health care, but that it does not come up with any proposal to bring the law closer along the other track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u115	Then we disagree. I make proposals all year round to improve care for sick workers. I believe that this legislative proposal does not contribute sufficiently to this, even more so, that it is merely a burden increase and will ultimately have no added value. Crown members, employers and employees could not agree on this in the ESC for nothing. That leaves me with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u116	I think it is quite embarrassing of the VVD to draw up a whole series of destructive amendments, but they do not present them in time. This debate has been announced for a long time. I am making an order proposal to suspend the debate for the time being so that we can take note of these amendments and have an orderly discussion on them. Then we'll see. Then perhaps something can be arranged in the coalition so that it can be resolved properly and not in this way, because this is of course not what you wish for in a coalition if you are part of it. So my order proposal is to suspend the debate now and reopen it when the amendments are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u117	I will first give Mrs Schut the opportunity to respond. It is good practice to talk about the order proposal immediately afterwards. However, I do think that Mrs Schut should be able to respond to it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u118	This proposal has just been made to the other President. There are other groups that have prepared amendments that are not yet available. Nor do we fully control them when they become available. I have already said which amendments there are and we can now debate them if Mr Ulenbelt has any further questions. That's all I can say about it right now. They will be distributed as soon as they are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u119	The fact is that a concrete order proposal has now been made. I have just taken over the Presidency and I have not been able to understand exactly how the previous proposal was designed, but I understand that this was still slightly floating. Now there is a concrete proposal and I would like to hear the response of Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u120	As I said in the previous order proposal, I do not think we should suspend the debate now. It is strange that the largest coalition party announces a sad amendment and that it does not yet exist. However, for the order of the debate, I think it is appropriate to hear a pre-opinion from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u121	As far as the facts are concerned, as chairman, I have often experienced amendments being tabled or subsequently during a debate. There can be no misunderstanding about that, it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u122	My point of order would be that we should now complete the second term of the Chamber and, at the Minister's second term, check whether the sad amendments are there. If that is not the case, we may be able to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u123	I'm gonna chop it in half, or it's gonna get even more complicated. The CDA Group won't suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u124	I was the instigator of this. I find it remarkable, too. It happens more often, but then groups can usually tell exactly what's in the pipeline. The VVD fraction contains a trits in the pipeline. On the basis of my interruption, I have heard that there are still a number of amendments to be tabled. From a pragmatic point of view, I agree with Mr Heerma's proposal, because I also believe that the Minister can advise on behalf of the cabinet. It is true, by the way, that I too, along with Mr Heerma, have an amendment in the pipeline, but I will make that clear and explain it precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u125	Your position on the procedure to be followed is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u126	I agree with the previous speakers, with the following comment. The vast majority of the Chamber considers it extremely important that the existing bottlenecks to work safely and safely are addressed and quickly become law. The Minister said he was pleased that we could deal with this bill so soon after the recess. I'm not in favour of postponement, and I don't want to let things go their way. With this comment I agree with what my colleagues from D66 and the CDA have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u127	That's clear. So we're moving on. I say to Mr Ulenbelt that, of course, he is always free to ask for a third deadline after the Minister's reply in the second period of time. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u128	It's not intentional, but sometimes things run differently than you intended. There is still a motion for a resolution with a positive proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in case of illness no one is only patient or employee, but both;]] [[Whereas work is an important part of people's lives and helps to recover after illness;]] [[Whereas cooperation between medical specialist or general practitioner and company doctor can improve care for sick workers, thus preventing long-term unemployment;]] [[Whereas such cooperation is not yet sufficiently effective;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a work programme in which curative care and occupational health care work together to prevent long-term absenteeism, leading to less absenteeism of workers and thus less burden on the employer, and to inform the Chamber of 1 February 2017 about progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schut-Welken and Mr Tanamal. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34375-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u129	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. As mentioned above, the PvdA welcomes this bill. That is why she has strongly insisted on it. This proposal addresses a number of bottlenecks, which will help business doctors and prevention workers to do their job. It increases the involvement of employers and employees and gives prevention a firmer place, because prevention is better than cure. This brings safe and healthy working closer for a lot of people. The proposal also highlights the great importance of obtaining a better understanding of occupational diseases by highlighting their reporting. It is a good thing that the Minister is going to study in other ways in order to increase that understanding. I welcome the Minister's commitment that he will present more insights into the possible extension of the inspection requested by the PvdA and other parties for the budgetary treatment at the end of this year. The Minister will also give the state of play for the budgetary treatment of an institute for occupational diseases advocated by the PvdA, which is going to help people to get their rights. I heard the Minister say that such a plan might be there next February. I also welcome the Minister's commitment that he will examine further whether flex forces that are also entitled to all those facilities around health work, which really get in practice. Finally, I have a motion on the notification drawn up by my colleague Mrs Tanamal, whom I have the honour to replace here today. It's signed by herself and me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas approximately 3,700 people die each year in the Netherlands as a result of an occupational disease;]] [[Whereas non-reporting of occupational diseases by occupational doctors and workers is considered to be a violation in the legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas this proposed amendment, which provides for the possibility of imposing a fine on the company doctor, is conditionally incorporated into the law;]] [[noting that research commissioned by the SZW and the Health Care Inspectorate shows that only one third of all occupational diseases are reported to the Netherlands Centre for Occupational Diseases (NCvB);]] [[having noted that in 2018 a review of the background to the non-reporting of occupational diseases shall be carried out among occupational doctors;]] [[noting that the government does not intend to decide until 2020 whether the penalty provision will be introduced in the event of non-compliance with the reporting obligation;]] [[calls on the Government to decide, in 2018, including on the basis of the planned re-examination of company doctors, whether the penalty provision is to be introduced in case of non-compliance with the reporting obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Tanamal. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34375-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I welcome his words and his commitment to the discussion on how we can achieve more company doctors and, as far as I am concerned, more insurance doctors. I am also pleased with the openness surrounding possible funding, around protocols and so on. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. I think everyone can move on with that. I would like to thank the Minister for confirming the second opinion reading. I was actually hoping that Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Kerstens would also come to the conclusion that their amendment is no longer necessary, because that amendment opens the door to potential abuse of that second opinion. I am convinced that the two colleagues do not want that either. Anyway, maybe you will. I hesitated for a long time about the fine. I hesitated if I would table an amendment to remove the whole hook around a possible fine after the evaluation, i.e. further in the future, for company doctors or that I would go along with the Minister's suggestion regarding the veil. I have to confess, I still think that's a struggle. I have chosen, together with Mr Heerma, to table an amendment to simply anchor the veil promised by the Minister in the law. At least that has been distributed digitally and perhaps it is being distributed at the moment. I am not tabling that amendment because I do not trust this minister, but because there is also a world after March 2017. This isn't gonna happen until 2020. It'll look good in the law. Mr Heerma and I thought that was so neat. I am also pleased that the Minister said that he is going to look at how we can do even more preventively to further strengthen the translation of the report on occupational diseases into employers and sectors. The Minister would indicate in the second term when he thinks he can come up with something. I look forward to that. I thought that was a good way forward, and it is good to say that it is often the case that a company doctor informs the company or the sector with the consent of the employee. I have been reported by people who know the law much better than I do, that there is even a provision in the law that if there is a serious risk to third parties, there can now also be just reported by the company doctors. I'm assuming we're taking all this stuff with us. I share the Minister's urgency that more can be done here. Of course, it is also important to ensure that you have good occupational health records, so that you can also find, for example, that people were exposed to certain substances ten years ago. I look forward to that, because I continue to have serious doubts as to whether the penalty instrument works best to achieve the shared goal. That target isn't just more reports. We must also ensure that these reports prevent occupational diseases from occurring in the future. In any case, I will give my group a positive opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u131	The Minister states that he can immediately start his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber. With the SP, I do not continue to disagree on the purpose, but on whether introducing the reporting obligation in the form proposed by Mr Ulenbelt will contribute to achieving that objective. I don't see it that way. I am glad that we have gone into depth through Mr Ulenbelt's dissertation. In his definition of the Soviet-Russian and American limit values concept, he explains the differences, but I feel that we should first give the concept I have proposed a chance. The review in 2020 could then provide an opportunity to bring forward the Soviet-Russian element once again, if this is justified. For now, I'm maintaining my judgment. At least we agree on the goal. Mr Ulenbelt should not now look angry, because that is really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u133	What do the Russians have to do with it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u134	The Russians have nothing to do with it. I'm only responding to your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u135	Let's not have a conversation here that the outsider can't understand. I suggest you just use the interrupting microphone, Mr. Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr Ulenbelt gestured that he did not appreciate my last reference to his dissertation, so I withdraw it completely. I'm maintaining my pre-advisation. I have included the VVD in various debates on the objectives on which we agree, such as the prevention of diseases. Prevention is better than cure, because in this way we also limit absenteeism. I hope that, as a result of the outcome of this debate, Mrs Schut-Welk will once again meet her group with a more positive opinion than we have heard so far. I can only wait and see what that will do and hope that it will give its support. I come to the question of the Labour Party. I did not say that there will be an investigation into flex, but I indicated that we will consider in the evaluation whether what the PvdA indicated is actually the case. We'll take a closer look at the construction, and if there's any interesting data, I'll share it with the Chamber. I promised D66 that in the second term I would address the question of when we could use the better aggregated information together with the sub-sectors for prevention. In the meantime, the NCvB has informed me that this has been picked up and that the new method can be used from the beginning of next year. We will then see if this adds anything to the discussion I had with Mr Ulenbelt and whether you can achieve more in the area of prevention of occupational diseases through aggregated reporting at sub-sector level, without violating privacy or putting the employer in a dilemma. This also applies to the fact that, during the 2020 review, we can see how this has worked out. At least it was picked up and it will be applied next year. I think that's very nice. I come to the Schut-Welkenn/Tanamal motion in part No. 18. I have already said a few things about this in the first term, and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion concerns cooperation between occupational health care and curative care. The cabinet is very much in favour of this. I reject the Christmas/Tanamal motion in part No. 19. I have already indicated this in the first term, because the 2018 deadline is really too early. I hope for some understanding of that. The review in 2020 is the first possible moment when we have relevant data on the experience and can make choices about whether to introduce or not to use the enforcement instrument. Finally, I come to D66's questions. I agree to anchor that veil in the law as well. I understand that this is sensible, and I think it is a good idea, given the current debate on the nature of the instrument, which I understand. The fine is not yet being set up and I cannot yet specify exactly the criteria on which it should be applied. There will of course be a new Chamber in the meantime and it does not necessarily have to have the same composition, but if it does, it does not have to be the same people. So let's record it. Mr President, so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u137	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am trying to meet Mr Ulenbelt by asking the Minister what he thinks about the suggestion that he should respond in writing to the amendments to be expected before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u138	I just understood from the little order/interruption debate that the amendments will be aimed at undoing the law. I can tell you that I do not agree with that. In the case of amendments designed to amend, amend or improve the law, I will be happy to respond in writing in advance. But my main hope or wish lies in the internal deliberations of the VVD Group. As a result of this debate, there may be a possibility of simply supporting the law. If amendments are tabled, I will of course respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u139	In view of the Minister's reply, I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Schut-Welken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u140	When the Minister says that the amendments of the VVD are discouraged, this does not contribute positively to the formation of judgement within the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u141	I am responding to what Mrs Schut herself said. She says that she has drafted amendments to stop the law and that she does not expect the Minister to support it. That expectation is correct. I've just argued for a few hours that it's wise to do a second opinion. If an amendment is intended to delete the second opinion, it would be very strange for me to say: good idea. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we are talking about amendments that I do not know, and I shall look at them and give them an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u142	That is why I propose to keep it procedural. Is the Minister prepared to respond in writing to the amendments that are still coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u143	Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u144	So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u145	I have seen three amendments in the meantime, but it may be too late to respond to them in substance. What I meant to say is this. At a time when some of the amendments are being passed, that is a different form of judgment, but if the Minister says that he is dissuading them, and if a large part of the Chamber then follows his opinion, it will not help to form judgement within the VVD Group. I can imagine the Minister saying this on his own responsibility, but I must also indicate what my group's position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u146	That's also casuistic. We're not having this discussion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u147	I would very much like to respond to Mrs Schut-Welken's comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u148	Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u149	This is a new fact. It is now said that the VVD will vote in favour if a number of amendments succeed. I don't know what number it is. However, Mrs Schut-Welkins also says that if these amendments fail, the VVD votes against. This puts me in a difficult position. Of course, I would very much like the support of the VVD. I have just announced this, but I do not know exactly what Mrs Schut is asking me. I do not know the number of amendments and I do not know what they should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u150	However, the amendments are on their way and you can comment on them. I'm just gonna get out of here. Mr Heerma was first, unless he wanted to give Mr Ulenbelt the floor first. He might come up with an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u151	That order proposal is no longer necessary, because there are now four amendments, namely the Schut-Welken amendments to the Nos. 15, 16, 17 and 20. The Chamber has received these amendments. The Minister must have received them now. We could at most suspend for a while until the Minister has seen those amendments. When I read them like that, I think the Minister can go over them very quickly. I expect him to throw them all in the trash, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u152	I also have the problem that another debate would have started right now. This is not a matter of great urgency. A possible third period may be extended at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u153	There was a discussion between a coalition partner and the minister about amendments that would or would not be there. Those amendments are there. I propose that we suspend for two or three minutes so that the amendments can be considered. Then they can be arranged for a pre-advisation. Then we'll be done in no time. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u154	I ask the Minister whether he can at first sight give an opinion on the amendments after a suspension of a minute or five. Does he think he's capable of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u155	You speak of "first sight," but I haven't seen anything yet, so that's predicament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u156	I'll suspend for a few minutes. If it doesn't work, it won't work and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u157	I would like to thank the Minister for his willingness to assess the amendments that have been tabled in the meantime in the near future. They're not all in yet, so we're really just gonna see where we're going. Then we will see because, again, there is a next debate on the role, not to mention an initiative proposal from our colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Chairman. With the amendment in part No. 20 deletes the part by which the employee has direct access to the company doctor or occupational health service at the employer's expense, without any sickness absence. This proposal is contrary to Article 44 of the Arbo Act, which states that costs are always borne by the employer, and also to the EU Framework Directive on Working Conditions. I don't recommend the amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 15, on the right of assent of the works council in the appointment of the person responsible for prevention. In the first term, I argued that this is important, because such a prevention worker, in order to be effective and to reduce absenteeism, must feel like "from the workplace." For this it is a useful addition, in our view, that there is agreement with the works council and that there is a responsibility at the works council for that prevention worker, so that more use is made of this employee. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of the amendment. With the amendment in part No. 17 is removed from the legislative proposal the part requiring the employer to allow the occupational physician to visit the workplace. The argument is that this is already happening in practice. The fact that it takes place in practice shows that it is not problematic. By recording it in this way, we strengthen the position of the company doctor vis-à-vis the company. The analysis in the ESC opinion of the problems currently being felt shows that it is mainly in the sometimes too unclear or insufficiently secured position of the company doctor. Moreover, there is no difference of opinion between employers and employees. That is why I think it is essential to establish access to the workplace by law. I don't recommend the amendment. The amendment in part No. 16 concerns my proposal to replace assistance with advice. It provides for the replacement of advice with assistance, the old text of the law. Why did I suggest what I propose? I do this to make it clear that the employer is responsible for the organisation of occupational health care in the company and not the doctor or the health service. This is precisely what we want employers to do, because it is an important wish of employers to leave the division of responsibility. On the basis of the advice of the company doctor, the employer, and therefore no one else, must do what. In today's practice, the word "aid" means that the employer wishes to delegate responsibility. After all, the word "assistance" sounds like the doctor himself is going to do things. However, this is not the allocation of responsibility, because the employer remains responsible. He's getting the advice of the company doctor. I believe that my proposal is clearer and that it is precisely in the interests of employers to replace the word 'aid' with 'opinion'. It is not a major point, but I would nevertheless advise against the amendment because I think that what I am proposing is an improvement. Perhaps Mrs Schut would like to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u159	This call will be followed up immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u160	Of course. The reason why I want to take this part out is that it became clear in the written consultation that it leads to confusion among many parties. It is not the case that the employer may carry out those tasks himself if he does not give up the advice of the company doctor. No, he's not allowed to perform those duties at all. There are a lot of tasks that the company doctor has to perform, and that is why I would like to maintain the term 'aid'. If the company doctor has to perform a number of tasks and the employer is not allowed to do so because this is contrary to medical professional secrecy, you should not leave any uncertainty about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u161	Okay, Mr. Chairman. So be it. I now know what the VVD's argument is. That doesn't lead me to any other pre-advisation. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 21 shall be deleted from the section which provides that the company doctor may consult with the works council. The petitioner is concerned about the burden that this could entail. If you want to ensure that the preventive side of occupational medicine delivers results, it is important in my view that the company doctor can talk to the works council about this and get it involved. It is therefore in line with the proposals of the cabinet and I therefore advise against the amendment. I now have an amendment in front of me which says 'VVD 07'; that amendment may still be given a Chamber number. The amendment provides for the obligation to have a contract to be removed from the proposal. That's the basic contract. Mr President, can you see which amendment I am referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u162	That is the amendment to item No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u163	That amendment touches at the heart of the bill. I think that perhaps the greatest improvement can be expected from the obligation in the legislative proposal to complete the basic contract. It gives clarity to employer and employee. It also makes it clear to the occupational physician, for example, that the reporting of occupational diseases is declarable, something that has just been given a lot of attention in the debate with the Chamber. That amendment would take the heart out of the law and I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u164	It is a bit hectic here too, and that is why I would like to make it quite clear that you are just referring to Amendment No 2. 23 discussed. So I said it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u165	It says 'VVD 07', but you know that it is because of the amendment in part No. 23 goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u166	I have nothing to do with the VVD in this position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u167	Me neither. I only read it from this piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u168	For your information: all the amendments are currently in place; hence the numbering simply continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have an amendment to delete the possibility of a second opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u170	That is the amendment in part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u171	We had an extensive exchange of views on it in the first term. In curative care it is quite common that you have the opportunity to request a second opinion. In occupational health care, this should also be the case. For example, if there is any uncertainty as to the cause or nature of the complaints, it may be useful and desirable for an employee to have another company doctor look at that case. In my view, this is not equivalent to an expert opinion of the UWV; in that case, there is often already a benefit situation. There is therefore a need. I think it doesn't have to lead to a huge increase in its use, because you don't see that in curative care either. Since I think it is an improvement to include this possibility for workers, I would advise against the amendment. The following amendment seeks to remove from the legislative proposal the part that regulates the need for the company doctor to have a complaint procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u172	That is the amendment to item No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u173	If you want to better shape the position of the company doctor and guarantee it, it is very logical that you also accept that there is a complaint procedure in case people do not feel well treated. In the end, it also seems to me in the interests of the occupational doctors that you not only shape all the rights of the company doctor, but also the rights vis-à-vis the company doctor. I don't recommend the amendment. I think I've had them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u174	I believe that we have the Van Weyenberg/Heerma amendment to item No. 14 have not yet been explicitly dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u175	That's okay. I'll even take it from here, if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u176	You see, we hadn't dealt with that explicitly. Pursuant to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, a member of the Cabinet may accept an amendment. But that can only be done if the petitioner... No, if none of you are against it. That's how it was. Does none of those present object to accepting the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u177	I still have a political question for the Minister. We have now seen a debate. This is on my account. In eight or nine amendments, the VVD abolishes from this law any tightening up of the role of the company doctor, any additional possibility of rules and guarantees for workers for access to that company doctor. The law has been discussed in the cabinet, in which the VVD is the largest government party. How does the Minister politically suggest that the VVD Group not only does not support his law, but also feels the need to improve every aspect of the rules he is trying to improve. That is what he is going to do with the support of D66, I announce to him: the Minister has just nonsense plans here, which we all want to take off the table? How does the minister point that politically? I've never seen this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u178	I have not heard the qualifications that Mrs Schut is now being put in the mouth. I didn't take her words like that either. Political parties differ on the desirability of the proposals I make here on behalf of the cabinet. It is a great thing in a democracy that not everything has always been closed or finished in advance. In this case, I am very sorry that my contribution to this debate has not yet led to Mrs Schut advising her group otherwise. You never know if that's gonna happen. What the Cabinet is about is to prevent people from getting sick on or off work and to improve the fight against occupational diseases. That's where the company doctor is crucial. That is why, in the eyes of the cabinet, these are proposals for improvement. Political parties ultimately have an opinion on this. I don't need to further qualify in that. I would say that a party such as D66 should perhaps appreciate the fact that we sometimes make proposals here on behalf of the cabinet which achieve a majority other than by definition through the coalition. At least I hope that the proposal will reach a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u179	I am a big fan of dualism, but I think it is politically relevant that the VVD not only decides to vote against this law or to table an amendment, but also to politically destructively amend any tightening up, any adaptation of the Minister from the law, and I am not talking about the Rules of Procedure. I've never seen that before. Those are apparently the proportions for the next six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u180	At least I didn't take it that way. If a party votes against, a party votes against, whether or not with amendments. It's open to a party. It does not add very much to the debate that we have on this very important subject in order to deepen it further. I hope for the widest possible support from the Chamber and await the vote tensely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u181	Like the Minister, I believe that we have had an open debate on all the pros and cons of this bill. It's a big good that there's dualism. The VVD shares the objective of improving care for sick workers and ensuring that sick workers return to work as soon as possible. However, we believe that this legislative proposal does not contribute sufficiently to the vote. That will also be the opinion of the group. The Minister was already aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u182	With this harmonious end we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his presence and the answers he has given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-6.u183	We will be voting on the motions and amendments next Tuesday. I propose that we suspend for a few moments and then proceed as quickly as possible to the next subject.
