ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	I shall begin with Mr Van Veen's suicide letter to the President. "President, Today is my last day in Lower House. After more than four years of parliamentary membership, I get to do where my heart really is. Serving local public administration. I'm gonna be mayor in Gemert-Bakel, not far from Cuijk, the place I pawned my heart on. Life is good in the Brabant country. I don't have to tell most people in this room that. The soft g, the pissing about nothing in a region where it just goes great. Mr President, I'm looking back at a fantastic time in this room. I have been a spokesperson in a number of areas. Sports spokesperson, economics spokesperson, cultural spokesperson, on police matters I was able to say a few things and about an almost forgotten, but oh so important group, the war victims and our Dutch-Indian history. I have been in contact with many people from different sectors. I appreciate the efforts of people, often from different regions, to bring their sector, their profession, their beliefs, their hobby to the attention of me as a representative of the people. I have not been able to satisfy these people in all cases. Nevertheless, I dare say that most of them were happy with my openness and clarity. Mr President, I came from the region and I go back there with love. I would also like to say here that I have a great deal of respect for fellow room members who have to spend two or three nights a week here. Although acceptable, it is a price you pay to practice it on the second most beautiful profession in the Netherlands. I am proud of the amendments that I have been able to table in the various budgets, which were supported by a broad majority in the Chamber. Together with the PvdA, for innovative SMEs who had difficulty in joining the top sectors policy. For the Dutch manufacturing industry that can give a new dimension to collaboration with fieldlabs. But also the strangely produced cultural amendment of EUR 10 million last year. As chairman of the political preparation group IPC Energy for the Dutch Presidency of the EU, I was able to work with both the official support and MPs from the First and Second Chambers. The result should there be, a flawless conference, where we have shown that together with the official staff we can set up a top event. Mr President, It is a public secret that the VVD Group in The Hague is doing well. Cosiness and atmosphere come about only when people give each other something. When colleagues stand shoulder to shoulder when difficult decisions have to be made and when colleagues can be celebrated as a success. I have been part of this cooperation and I am extremely proud of it. I'm really gonna miss that partnership. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank the chefs and staff at the Members' Restaurant, who, on quiet days, competed with the Mac and put together a delicious banana milkshake for me. To the men of the Facility Service with whom, with my technical background, I spent a year discussing the defective window in our office. To Isabelle Kuivenhoven and my personal collaborators Renée Konings and Felicitas van Alphen, who made sure that I was always well prepared and on time. To you and the rest of the room, I say doodle and thank you. Goodbye in Gemert-Bakel! Sincerely, Michiel van Veen'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Dear Mr Van Veen, dear Michiel, When you joined the Chamber, you said it felt like you switched from FC Groningen to Manchester United. Although you did not come from Groningen at that time, but from the Brabant Cuijk, it was indeed the step from local to national politics. And that took some getting used to, in your leaky attic in The Hague. You said in 2012: "I was an alderman, sitting at the wheel. Suddenly you're in the Lower House and you're 1 out of 41. You have to take that for yourself, it has to develop." That development was fast. With your background as manager at Stork, the Economic Affairs portfolio was on your mind. You were particularly committed to innovation, the Dutch location climate and the Dutch competitiveness. You gained inspiration during work visits, for example at the World Expo in Milan and the Grüne Woche in Berlin. At the beginning of this year, you were chairman of the political preparatory group for the Interparliamentary Conference on Energy, Innovation and Circular Economy. You look back on that with a positive feeling. That's what you just mentioned in your letter. But your interest, your commitment, was broader. You spoke about the number of hours of gym lessons in schools, about the preservation and archiving of Dutch heritage abroad and about the reduction of the subsidy to the Rijksmuseum. You didn't make friends with that at the Rijksmuseum, I heard. The VWS Committee appointed you, together with Otwin van Dijk and Vera Bergkamp, as rapporteur to monitor the implementation of the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. Maybe it's a coincidence, maybe it's because your heart eventually gets a little closer to everyday practice, but you're taking the same step as Otwin van Dijk. You're gonna be mayor of Gemert-Bakel. After 22 amendments, 24 motions, 39 parliamentary questions and 42 oral contributions, you leave the Lower House and your leaky attic room behind you. No longer one out of 41, but the central, connecting person. Back to Brabant, back to Cuijk. I won't quote your own metaphor, the comparison with the change from Manchester United back to FC Groningen. I don't really follow football very intensively, but I'm sure of one thing and that's that FC Groningen is miserable. While I think you're looking forward to a bright future and can count on a very warm welcome. Gemert-Bakel city council described you as a driven and strong driver. A powerful personality, with an analytical look and a large network. Dear Michiel, Before you really trade in Parliament for the public administration, I have the honour to let you know that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau, as a thank you for your years of commitment to the public cause, not only as a MP, but also as a city council member. I think that's a nice way to say goodbye to the Chamber. On behalf of the entire Chamber, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment and wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'd like to ask you to step forward so I can pin down the decorations that come with this appointment. After the votes, we will also be discussing a number of motions for resolutions from your vote, which will give all colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	I think we can vote now.
