ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, Secretary of State. Already in December last year, the 50PLUS Group, at the end of its contribution to the debate on the 2016 VWS budget, asked for the following on the level of the reduced income-dependent care premium rate, the so-called IAB. I quote: "The 50PLUS Group is also looking ahead to the preparation of the 2017 Millions Note. We want the Health Insurance Act to be amended next year so that for the future, the Minister of VWS can only change the existing band between the reduced and normal rate by law or by AMvB." We asked the Minister to make proposals to this effect. The Minister didn't do that. First, I'm going back into the history of the reduced rate. The answer to our question to the 2016 Tax Plan was: "The motive for increasing the reduced rate is therefore not in the care but in the need to put public finances in order." It was added that, even after this adjustment, more IAB contributions are paid for a worker than for an older person with an equal income. That addition is curious and will ensure that my group is and remains vigilant. This statement gives the impression that policy can also be advocated for the equalization of the low and the normal rate. In response to our question last year, the cabinet replied that at that time there were no plans to increase the reduced rate. If it were decided to remove the difference between the normal and reduced rates, the reduced rate would increase by 1% while the normal rate would decrease by 0.25%. After all, the total IAB should not increase. I dive into the given answers about the history of the reduced rate IAB. I quote again: "The AOW beneficiaries were immediately reimbursed to the IAB in their AOW benefit, but were not reimbursed to the IAB for their supplementary pension. Since self-employed persons and pensioners (about their supplementary pension) do not receive this allowance, the Health Insurance Act provides for them to pay a lower IAB rate on the income for which they do not receive compensation. The amount of the reduction was taken over from the Health Fund Act at the time. The simplification of the Equalisation of Wage Concept Act meant that employers went to pay the IAB directly to the Health Insurance Fund and that the IAB rate on the AOW benefit was aligned with the reduced rate on the supplementary pension." Thus last year's response; page 86. Our group also asked last year whether the justification for the low rate from 2006 is still valid, now it was proposed to significantly increase the low rate, by 0.65% The answer was that the implementation of the Health Insurance Act looked at balanced burden sharing between households. In particular, it looked at households that did not receive compensation for the IAB, such as supplementary pension beneficiaries. It was then decided to lower the IAB rate for these groups. Let me quote now: the justification for the difference at the time was a balanced income policy and this justification still applies, even in the form of the 2014 budget agreements. In the context of the 2014 budget agreements, it was decided, inter alia, to introduce a so-called household allowance, which, among other things, would better target the income support of older people. This meant that older people with a higher pension would make a greater contribution to public finances than those with low incomes; a new form of equalisation between groups of older people outside income tax and within the care premium fixing. The initially envisaged introduction of a household allowance was not possible, which led to an alternative measure being decided in 2014. The alternative decided by the Cabinet is to increase the income-dependent contribution for pensioners and self-employed persons. I note that several reasons have now been given. In addition to improving public finances, there is also the non-implementation of the household allowance, which would be levelled between higher and lower pensions. That did not happen and then all pensioners were caught again with the increase of 0.65%. It's an embarrassing display, but at least at the end of 2015 we got the leak on the table. Our question is whether the reason for the reduced rate is still the IAB's non-reimbursement for people with supplementary pensions. We would like an answer from the Minister. Or is there a newer approach, namely catching the people with a supplementary pension? This also forces me to come back to the increase in the income limit for the income-dependent care premium, a long time ago. In 2012 during Rutte 1, that limit was raised explosively in one go.It is hardly imaginable: from €35,000 to no less than €55,000, the limit of employee insurance. This was a contribution increase of no less than €1,000 in one blow for the elderly and the self-employed. This obviously had nothing to do with the care, but with the much heavier burden on supplementary pensions between €25,000 and €45,000, below and above modal, which had not been indexed at that time for years, with significant inflation, and no longer indexed thereafter. They may not be indexed over the next ten years either, thanks to the famous 'Financial Future Broken'. The group of pensioners where the hardest hits is those above €36.000, the limit of the elderly discount, with the discount falling suddenly by €1.221. A motion of 50PLUS has just been adopted in this Chamber in order to achieve a much more gradual phasing-out. When the Wul was introduced, there were compensatory measures, such as the reduction of the IAB rate, the increase in the elderly discount and the introduction of an elderly discount of €150, yes, what an amount, for incomes above €35,000. I note that after that, some of the compensations have been reversed. I call that a policy of a wheel in front of the eyes: first compensate for the Wul and later, sneak back step by step compensatory measures. The IAB was then increased by 0.65% to the old level for the Wul and the old discount of €150 was quickly reduced to the very minimum level of €71; a small tip. In addition, the 2015 Tax Plan reduced the elderly discount by €83 to below €1,000. That's how this cabinet deals with the elderly. Imagine this happening to workers. Every year they get an ever higher employment discount and IACK. It will be clear now why our group must once again dive into this painful past of the cabinet in dealing with the elderly around this IAB care premium. Where is the reliable government for the elderly? The Minister replied to me last year that the increase in the IAB was not introduced in the context of care at all, but in the context of purchasing power weighting. Will the Minister acknowledge in a progressive understanding that purchasing power weighting should not be a basis for reconsidering the low IAB rate, given the principle and clear justification in the legal history? Please give me an answer. I note, by the way, that this is a different statement of reasons than putting public finances in order, as indicated by the Secretary of State for Finance last year. The Minister suggested to us that she would not change the law for the change of premiums, but that it would therefore have to be done with an initiative proposal. She added, on request, that the planned increase was reported last year in the Millions Note, the VWS budget and the Social Affairs budget for 2016. "With all the treatments of these subjects, motions can be tabled if something is not desired or if one wishes otherwise. So it is not that we prescribe it as a dictation. This can simply be changed in the parliamentary debate." At that time, the cabinet pointed out that no proposals for amendments had been made for 2016. Mr Krol returned to the method of fixing this premium in the written preparation of the debate on the 2017 VWS budget. The Minister's reply was as follows: the answer is the same as that given at the time. For our group, the current regime remains an unsatisfactory way of democratic decision-making on the level of care premiums. It is about formidable burden increases: 1% increase results in an additional charge increase of 600 million, of which 400 million. for pensioners and nearly 200 million for self-employed workers. In addition, the payment of the IAB premium for the AOW will be added. By the way, how much is that amount? My final question is: is the Minister still prepared to meet our democratic desire and will she amend the law? Then I have another very different point. According to media reports this morning, RIVM would have come to the conclusion that artificial grass is safe. RIVM has apparently concluded from recent chemical analyses that the risk of cancer is negligible. Can the Minister explain why rubber tiles in playgrounds are subject to stricter standards than artificial grass with rubber granules? Can the Minister also send the First Chamber the report of the RIVM as soon as possible, accompanied by a statement from the Minister? Can the Minister give an initial response already? Because the group of 50PLUS is concerned about the health of our children and grandchildren. I would add that I have two grandsons who play football, one of whom is a goalie and are therefore exposed to the greatest risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. The 2017 healthcare budget is ahead to discuss today. A budget which, in fact, is not much different in substance from the previous one. It is not possible; the Minister and the Secretary of State are working on the final pieces. The SP Group has decided to request a budget debate. I may also speak on behalf of the Animal Party. Care lives in our society. A large part of our population is concerned about the future of care, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in its publication "Zorg en uneleged." For example, we also have a strong opinion on care, not for ourselves, but to improve care: no personal risk, the dentist in the basic package and no market operation in care, with the clear mark on the horizon of the National Health Fund. I would like briefly to discuss the following issues with the administrators: the socio-economic health differences, our care system, the course of decentralisation and the position and role of the system responsible. Although I am looking forward to this budget debate, I cannot escape looking back at the policies and their effects. Before I begin my speech, I would like to look at Mrs Schippers and Mr Van Rijn again. We often disagreed. There was a strong debate, here and also on the other side. On behalf of the SP and Animal Party groups, I would like to thank you both for your commitment and the work you have done together. Thank you! On Saturday 11 December, Professor Johan Mackenbach spoke at a SP symposium on socio-economic health differences. On the basis of Rotterdam's metro map, he showed the course of life expectancy. In seven minutes you travel from Kralingen-Oost to Delfshaven. In that journey life expectancy is falling by more than four years. People with lower levels of education live on average 15 years shorter, in less experienced health than those with higher levels of education. If you only look at life expectancy based on education, there is a difference of six years. These differences have not changed in recent years, but, looking back to the 1990s, there is a growth in socio-economic health disparities. Then higher educated people lived four years longer and twelve years longer in good health than lower educated people. Our groups continue to oppose this division in our society, and they are also a little disappointed by the government's limited interest in this subject. My first question to the Minister is therefore why these socio-economic health differences have not been reduced. I would ask the Minister to indicate what measures are in her budget aimed at reducing these differences. I must also recall the budgetary debate between Minister Dijsselbloem and our senator, Mr Van Apeldoorn, on the growth of income and wealth inequality in our country. Income and ability also appear to be a good predictor of life expectancy. So this discussion was not just about people's life expectancy. Maybe this government can just arrange, in addition to the purchasing power plates, for life expectancy plates to be used. The modal life expectancy as a growth indicator. The life expectancy of our residents is not only determined by our healthcare system. The living environment, training, nutrition, working conditions and psychosocial stress are all also decisive. Smoking is, however, a strong factor that affects these health differences. Smoking is responsible for more than a quarter of the deaths, with more smoking by people with low socio-economic status. The Secretary of State is particularly involved in the fight against smoking in the field of prevention and information. Mr Secretary of State, when will the cigarette packets become unbranded? Can you indicate a target date? That is, of course, only one of the measures that you can take. I know you're working on more than one, but one step further than what's happening now would be very pleasant. My second question to the Secretary of State is how his conversation with the health insurance companies is going in order to exclude the cessation-of-smoking programmes from the mandatory own risk. I look forward to your answer to that. In the budget there is only limited attention to health promotion. Every year, 20 million go to the guide municipalities and the Healthy in programme. This programme to reduce local health deficits ends in 2017. Can the Secretary of State name the successes of the Healthy in Programme? How does he view an extension of this programme? What will he advise his successor on this? Does the Secretary of State consider that EUR 20 million is a sufficient incentive to reduce socio-economic health inequalities in the area of health care? The Minister succeeds in curbing the cost of our care system, chapeau! The financial instruments and incentives are very important to the Minister. Our groups were stimulated a few weeks ago by reading the OECD report Health at a glance 2016. Our healthcare system is qualitatively a good midget compared to the other European countries. In terms of cost, however, we are among the top four of the most expensive systems. Therefore, costs and quality do not seem to be in balance. Can the Minister explain to us what's going on? The General Court concluded that the care agreements are likely to have achieved their objective and have put a brake on the growth of healthcare expenditure. Good, may I say on behalf of both our groups, but the substantive agreements within these care agreements have hardly contributed to this cost reduction, as the General Court states. What makes it so difficult to achieve the substantive agreements? That's what we're asking the Minister. Is the sense of efficiency sometimes an obstacle to focus? Is this also the reason for the imbalance between costs and the quality of our system? Where is this tension, Madam Secretary? Man is more than just a financial incentive insured, because stimulation does this system. The brake money in the form of own risk and the confidential contract negotiations on maximising treatment between insurers and healthcare providers are only two examples of this. The way of working has human consequences. Carelessness is such a consequence. Our groups are very concerned about the consequences of care avoidance. It increases the health difference between rich and poor. A recent example according to the research of the Health Insurance Information Centre: 22% of low-income people avoid the dentist for financial reasons. The richer, the more money is spent on the dentist, according to statistics. The poorer, the less money is spent on the dentist. How does the Minister view this difference in dental visits on the basis of socio-economic status? Is this a problem of the individual insured or are we dealing with a social problem here? I am also inclined to take the standard for normal distribution. I understand, of course, the position of the Minister and have also tried to take me into account in her situation. It is at the helm of the system and wonders when to intervene and when not. I am curious about this dental visit in particular, but there are of course other examples to think of when it sees something as an individual problem that the insured person himself has to solve with supplementary insurance, and when something really becomes a social problem. She must have made those considerations. How does that work? Maybe she can give us some insight into that. For those who have the least to cut financially and who require more care, the impact of their own risk on care avoidance is greatest. Our groups see the problems of this group of people in our country and hear about them. The care-avoidance has not been properly portrayed by this cabinet. Disappointing, the opportunity to do so was there. We know the Minister's quickscan published in November. In the context of this quickscan, 90 interviews were held in ten municipalities and a number of observations were made. I wouldn't call it an investigation, at most a preliminary investigation. The methodological side of the story is very thin. Then I come to the point of the own risk, which, of course, should be attached to this. Its own risk has different perspectives. Over the last few years, left and right have appeared from different perspectives, from the perspective of the system, of the treatment providers, of the client's investigations, which looked at that own risk. Each time you come across a conclusion that is linked to the perspective from which the research was done. At the end of the day, I find it difficult to see what is really going on with its own risk and its effects. The SP included that in its election program. We regularly notice that the own risk hinders people's search for care. It's gonna give you some kind of care-avoidance. However, I would like to take a study that has been done from the point of view of the avoidance of the system, which is a desirable effect. In any case, it has an impact on the individual situation. Each time you have to change your vision: look down from the system or stand next to the citizens and ask what the effect is for them. In addition, one's own risk doesn't really work as a surgical knife in slowing down asking for care. It's more like a blunt axe. Isn't there a better instrument to come up with if you want to make people more critical about care? Those are the questions we have. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she can give a more detailed picture of the effects of the own risk. Can it indicate its impact on citizens in relation to the effects it will have on the system? Again, all that has been written about, but it continues to be a matter of interpreting and puzzling how to look at it. Perhaps we will table another motion on this matter. I come to the final issues of my speech. Two years ago, after a long time, a major change in the system was decided upon. The Wmo 2.0 and the Youth Act made their municipal entrance. From the thought of "now or never" the people in our congregations were confronted with great changes. In practice, this means maximum freedom of policy for municipalities with hardly any rights for citizens. For the sake of clarity, the fraction of the SP was and is not an opponent of the care to the municipalities. However, the way in which the transfer was carried out and the speed in which it was carried out led us to vote against it. The last two years have been robust for municipalities, care residents and healthcare providers. It's a whimsical path. Still not a day goes by or there is a new calamity, for example the zip code youth care, the lack of psychiatric care at home, 75,000 layoffs in home care etc. A publication will be published every week. As far as we are concerned, that is the consequence of an ill-thought-out, unprepared transfer. People fall between shore and ship. There really is too much local bureaucracy. With my other hat I notice that daily. I'm not gonna tell you too much about that. What has the Secretary of State learned from decentralisation? What are the other points of interest for him? What is not going well from the perspective of the care seekers? We've heard regular reports that things are going well. Our perspective is that we still see effects that things are not going well. Can the Secretary of State zoom in on that again? The Secretary of State is responsible for the national roll-out of the Wmo and the Youth Act. He will have thought about his role and the implementation strategy. We wonder how we should appoint this role of the Secretary of State. In the run-up to the roll-out of the Wmo and youth care, he was a firmly steering visionary. Here we see the Secretary of State in the role of a sturdy tractor. During the pgb-debacle, the Secretary of State placed himself next to the pgb-holders and the caregivers. He had to. Because of this ill-thought-out pgb-centralization, people have been in massive trouble. Here we see the Secretary of State in the role of guilt-conscious shepherd. That is what I have just referred to him in this connection. The Centrale Raad van Beroep (Centrale Raad van Beroep) ruled on the claims for domestic aid before 1 January 2015. These old claims were declared valid under the new Wmo. The municipalities respond to this statement in varying degrees. The system-responsible Secretary of State is a bit quiet about it. Maybe he's behind the scenes. Here we see the Secretary of State in the role of strategically silent State Secretary. We ask the Secretary of State to indicate how many and which municipalities have not yet implemented the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal. Does he want to appeal to the execution of the ruling? These are just three examples of roles. There's more to name. The image which the Secretary of State thus evokes is that of an ad hoc system operator. He's some kind of oil man from the system with an oil sprayer on the left and a fire extinguisher in the hand on the right. Probably doesn't have anything else to do either. It is the result of this ill-thought-out, unprepared roll-out of the WMO and the Youth Act by this cabinet. The elderly, overburdened carers, the children without proper care, the people who have been cut off in helping the household and others wonder who stands up for their individual situation, who comes to put out their fire, who appeals to the quirky municipalities on their responsibilities. The fractions of the SP and the Party for the Animals do not make this up themselves. During our door-to-door tour in the context of our National Health Fund, we have heard a lot of this disappointment in the cities and villages. This is a State Secretary who deals with filling the gaps in the system, but who is regularly invisible to groups of residents whose care and support has changed or disappeared, resulting in residents turning away from the government. This is the consequence of a political choice towards rapid system change. The Secretary of State is, of course, free to answer this question. He may also have a tip on how his successor can fulfil the role of system responsible. Mr President, you will be pleased with me: I have finished my speech. I am anxious to await the answers of the Secretary of State and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u4	I listened with interest to Mr Don's speech. I can certainly go along with him when he says that we are looking together, including with the government, at the balance between affordability on the one hand and accessibility and quality of care on the other. We are delivering an enormous achievement there in the Netherlands. Mr Don thanked the government for that. Of course, I agree with that. Mr Don asked for a thorough analysis of the impact of the own risk of care avoidance. My question to Mr Don would be what his in-depth analysis of the studies that have already been carried out would be like. He mentioned a number of things. The effect on individual care questions is explicitly reflected in Vektis' recent research. The NIVEL has investigated behavioural effects, distinguished by age, SES class, health situation and so on. These are all things that Mr Don has rightly mentioned, but which have already been investigated. With regard to alternative behavioral influence, efforts are being made to understand the costs, the transparency of quality and so on, both in the care provider and in the care provider. So my group does not immediately agree with the idea that an additional investigation would be needed at the moment. There have been five, six major investigations. All the technology we have has been used in that. What does Mr Don's analysis look like before he says that additional research would be needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u5	Many of the studies mentioned by Mr Bruijn have been carried out from the system side. That certainly applies to the investigation of NIVEL, which he talked about. I believe that's from 2015. That looks from the top, from the system side, at the individual citizen. The Secretary of State carried out qualitative research in October. What I just mentioned is not a good investigation. You could call it more of a preliminary investigation. Much is being looked at from the individual situation. Based on these individual situations, you can draw a number of conclusions that apply to the individual situation. This creates a number of viewpoints that you can use to look a little further in a similar way and a little larger scale. So that means you're getting an investigation that's much more grafted from the individual citizen than from the system. Our parties are always bumping over that own risk. The own risk is often directly linked to the affordability of the system. That's always the lead priority. The effects of one's own risk on groups of citizens who are visible, which are also seen by a number of other parties in this Chamber and where you see the individual effects of, are always subordinated to the affordability of the system. This is going to be a very difficult discussion. Can we now look more broadly at the own risk and its effects, so also at the individual behavior of people? What happens then? Of course, the affordability of the SP system is equally valid. We can talk about what budget should be against it. But no matter what budget you take, expand or unite means that you have limits to the budget. Affordability is always a very important issue. But also link it to the individual effects it has on citizens. My question and that motion, which is still circulating in the background, stem from that line of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u6	I'd like to ask you a quick, final question. These individual effects are important. They were included in these investigations. I wasn't talking about NIVEL 2015, but about the research of Vektis, for example. In it, the effect is really seen from the individual. That's difficult, but all the techniques we have to investigate have been abandoned on this. I support Mr Don in his plea for the idea that we should also look from the individual. The investigations that are there are about that. I'd like to take another look at that with him. However, in the view of my group, he expressed more support for investigations that have been carried out than that he identified a gap in that research. Those studies shall be based on the individual care provider and contribution contributor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u7	I remember Vektis's research. I would like to reply to Mr Bruijn. Vektis' research focuses on care and the context of care. I was just talking about socio-economic health differences. How does it work out at that point? What else does it mean for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u8	I think there is some kind of dilemma in Mr Don's approach. Why should research be carried out when he himself has already concluded in his election programme that one's own risk does not add value to the care system and leads to care avoidance? That was one of Mr Don's first statements. Can he say in one sentence what question he wants answered in the investigation? The research is about the question point, dot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u9	Then I'm repeating myself. Its own risk creates effects for citizens. Most of the studies have been done from the point of view of system responsibility. There is only a limited number of studies in which really more is looked at from the population itself, from below. So my question remains. Again, we are against our own risk. In practice, we simply notice that it produces effects in the form of care avoidance and other obstacles for citizens to seek care. I gave the example of the dentist. That's what's going on here. Is that a social problem or an individual problem? In these investigations, it is always addressed from a different perspective and from a different side. In addition, it continues to handle critically with care I don't want to use the word "threshold" of course an item. I just called it a blunt axe. You'd want a lot more to go to a surgical knife anyway. So are there any other possibilities to deal critically with care? At that point, I still see gaps in the investigations. Also in the discussions that take place in the Lower House and in the press it remains: welles, nietes, welles, nietes. Can't we even take a closer look at that in an investigation? That question remains. That wasn't in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u10	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u11	I think Mr Don is asking for something that has been examined before. In our system, the general practitioner has an inhibiting effect on the care. So the question is whether Mr Don wants an investigation into his own risk or health...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u12	But doesn't the doctor also slow down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u13	Through the chairman, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u14	I'm sorry, Madam Speaker, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u15	A lot of studies have been done to show this, but my proposal is that the Minister should take that up. I would advise Mr Don to look at other investigations as well. For example, iBMG has been researching the effects of its own risk and the use of the GP in the system since the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u16	Mr. Flierman, do you have a subsequent question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u17	Yes, I also have a question on this point. I have, of course, listened with interest to Mr Don's input and to his response to the questions put by colleagues Bruijn and Nooren. In my view, what Mr Don said is somewhat contradictory. He says: we are against our own risk, and that is it; that is us and that is what we remain. But let's say that the studies show that the own risk is functional throughout the system, that it somehow benefits cost control and slows down unnecessary consumption of care. Would the SP then reconsider its position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u18	It has an effect in the system. It slows down the care a little bit, but that decision can only be made if you link it to the effects on individual citizens. You can say that it slows down, that you can systematically see and calculate that, but that effect cannot be separated from the cohort of citizens in whom it ultimately leads to care avoidance. Only then can you actually draw a conclusion. We now come to the conclusion that this group is so large that its own risk can be better eliminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u19	Mr. Flierman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u20	In my view, Mr Don would only like an investigation to make us reconsider our views, but not to possibly revise his own opinion, because he already knows the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u21	Mr Flierman's party and a number of other parties here also have a firm view of something. Maybe you can get closer on the basis of numbers, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u22	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-eerstekamer-12.u23	I shall suspend the meeting for a single minute in anticipation of the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
