ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	Good morning. The Minister is still in our midst today when I see the agenda for the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Teeven for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. This VAO has been requested by me and others, including Mrs Eijsink of the Labour Party. I would also like, on behalf of Mrs Eijsink and Mrs Günal-Gezer of the Labour Party, to make the following announcement to the Chamber and also to the Cabinet. The financial spokesmen of the groups of the VVD and the Labour Party will complete and submit an amendment during the course of today, which will be this afternoon, with the Ministry of Defence for 8 million per year structuralally, amounting to a small 175 million in total, being compensated for the RVU levy on the provision of AOW-hole. This amount has been found in the under-exhaustment of the national budget elsewhere. This partly resolves the annual budget for the Defence budget and partly compensates 9,000 former military personnel, without this amount being charged to the Defence budget. I will therefore not table a motion on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	I think some of my colleagues have questions about this. I saw Mr Van Dijk first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you for this announcement. Perhaps Mr Teeven would like to explain a little more, because I am particularly concerned about the words 'in part'. We've had a hearing and we've had a debate. Mr Teeven then gave the impression that he wanted a serious solution to this AOW-hole, which causes so much injustice. Is Mr Bitch now closing that AOW-hole completely for the military and the citizens, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	I will clarify this, because this is a clear question. This communication does not refer to civilian personnel in the defence sector, as the amendment sees that in favour of the defence budget, an amount will be compensated in the amount of the RVU levy for the provision of the AOW-hole of military personnel. This concerns the 9 000 people we have discussed in general terms, and not the 3,500 civil servants. Moreover, I understood from yesterday's letter from the Minister that, although she appealed, that was the case of civil servants. There were certain reasons for that. We will talk about this later today. In the case of the military there is no appeal, as I understand from the letter. Now that that court ruling is final, the Minister will have to compensate the military in view of the commitment she has made. The court made a clear ruling on that. That would be charged to the Defence budget and not to other budgets. We, the groups of the Labour Party and the VVD, felt that some of this money should be found elsewhere in the national budget. It is indeed a part, because it amounts to 8 million a year, and if you add that up for a period of 22 years, you come to about 175 million. If you wanted to compensate for everything, you would come to a sum of 600 million structurally for both military and civilian personnel. There is no such amount, but more room has been made for the Secretary of Defense to meet the 9,000 soldiers. What she wants to do with the civilian staff, she herself has to make a statement on this in her reply to the budget today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	Since this is a bit special, Mr Van Dijk can do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret, however, that Mr Teven is not going to close the AOW-hole completely and certainly not for civilian staff, especially now that I understand from the week that Mr Teven himself has been involved in closing the AOW-hole for politicians, MPs and ministers. Does he not feel called upon to make another effort to fully remove this great injustice for military and civilian personnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	With regard to the 9,000 military, we are taking an important step, without at the expense of the military service in the Defense Department. That would be the case if it were all charged to the defence budget. With regard to civilian staff, I have been clear in general consultation. The VVD Group, together with the PvdA Group and the groups of the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, agreed on this in the spring agreement in 2012. All these five parties knew we were gonna solve this this way. If Mr Van Dijk means to say that the military has not been properly looked at, then I can only agree with him, and that is what I said during the general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Let me begin by saying that I appreciate every attempt to repair the big hole that exists, including the attempt by Mr Teven and Mrs Eijsink. Let's get back to the hearing and the problem itself. Does Mr Teven agree with me that the signal from the military, also given the special position of a military, was very clear, namely that we do not want to be disproportionately disadvantaged in relation to other categories in this country? How does he see the solution or the partial solution as he himself says, in that context?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	I am not going to go into that, because the Minister is still in consultation with the unions, as you know. That consultation is still going on. The Minister has to do with an irrevocable judgment of a court. The task is clear, we all know it, so I do not need to repeat it. So the minister's in the middle of a conversation. The opinion of the VVD Group, and indeed of the PvdA Group, is that, given the special position of the military delegation, Mrs Eijsink has made this very clear in general consultation on a number of occasions and we share that this should not be charged to the defence budget. In general terms, the Minister has already said that she would be looking for a solution. That was still under the defense budget. Now it doesn't have to be fully off the defense budget. That's a profit for the Defense Department. Every euro for Defence is a profit, Mr Knops will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	If I follow and reason Mr Teeven, I come to the conclusion that half a solution is being provided and that the Minister of Defence can come up with the rest of the solution. This must then come from the working conditions budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't know. The military are asking for 100%. There are more people in the Netherlands who suffer from an AOW-hole, so the military are not the only ones. That progressive RVU tax that's on it is unreasonable. After all, soldiers are in a different situation than other professional groups in the Netherlands. I think it is good to say that again here, because I have received many e-mails from citizens asking why the VVD Group, the PvdA Group and the rest of the Chamber are doing something for military but not for them, although they also have an AOW hole. In the spring agreement, the CDA Group has fully agreed to this in order to promote longer working hours. It happens. So there are more people with an AOW-hole. Now it's easier for the Defense Department to find a solution, and I'd like to leave it to the Secretary of Defense about how she's handling it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	I'll take a look at the others. Mr. Houwers, are you in need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	I do have that need. I'll be brief. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Teeven for part of the solution, but I would like to go a little further, hence two motions for resolutions. If I can submit it within my speaking time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of Defence staff, both civilian and military, are currently facing an AOW-hole;]] [[noting that the court has irrevocably ruled that the provision of AOW-gat constitutes an excessive breach of legitimate claims of the Defence personnel by over-lossing net income;]] [[noting that the Minister has undertaken to compensate the AOW-hole from the resources available for working conditions or elsewhere in the Defence budget;]] [[considers that the resources for compensating for the AOW gap should not come from the terms of employment of the Defence budget and that this would unduly infringe the working conditions of the active servants;]] [[calls on the Government to spare the Defence budget from compensating for the AOW gap and to seek additional resources outside the Defence budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Houwers and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	I've got 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, you've run out of time. You had half a minute and I gave you a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	Okay, then we have to leave it at that. Then there's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. The AOW hole is a bone in the throat and a very heavy burden for those who have to deal with it. People who have been acting on behalf of the Kingdom of the Netherlands throughout the world for years, often at risk for their own lives, must suddenly live with much less money. At the time, the increase in the AOW age did not pay close attention to this group. So there's just a duty to fix what went wrong at the time. This is a matter for the active politics now, of this Chamber, but certainly of this cabinet. Let me just say that I was extremely disappointed by the general consultation, in which three cabinet leaders all stuck in their own pockets and were unable or unwilling to help each other to solve this problem. That is why I think it is right to fix this with a motion and call on the cabinet to compensate for this AOW hole. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has been corrected in several court cases for incomplete compensation for the AOW gap in the Defense Department, which is judged by the court as "an excessive breach of legitimate claims due to excessive loss of revenue";]] [[Considering that the government intends to finance compensation for the AOW-hole at Defense from the Defence Working Conditions budget;]] [[Whereas the active staff in the Defence Department has previously been confronted with incomplete compensation for the negative income effects of the Wul and has already contributed to the previously incomplete compensation of the AOW-hole;]] [[Considers that compensation for the AOW gap in the defence sector is a responsibility of the government as a whole in the light of the special position of the military;]] [[Calls on the Government, to fully compensate the AOW-hole for civilians and military in the Defence Department, to finance within the State budget and to inform the Chamber on this matter by the Spring 2017 note at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	I would like to look back at the spring agreement and the parties who put their names under it to get funding to resolve the deficits in the government at the time. I'm not gonna say anything about the military, but I'm gonna say something about the civilian staff. It was clear then that a number of people would fall into an AOW-hole. Why is Mr Knops now also making a motion against these civilian staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	Because this has also been repaired in other ministries, because this has not happened in the defence sector, because it has taken far too long and because this is a matter that will have to be resolved. I hope that Mr Teeven agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	That's a bit of a question. Apart from the government, of course, many more citizens suffer from an AOW-hole, also in the private sphere. As a government, we do not let taxpayers take the fall for that either. Can Mr Knops say something about that? I agree with what Mr Knops says in the motion about the military. I get that. The Minister also mentioned this in his reply in the AO on the AOW-gat. As far as civilian personnel are concerned, I just don't understand the motion. Can Mr Knops clarify that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	We've had the hearing. We have given the floor to both soldiers and civilians. We have seen the significant effects these people face. The solution now provided by the PvdA and the VVD is a bit of a cloth for bleeding. That is a bit of a second stage of the provisional provision, as the Minister agreed with the unions. That's not a solution that these people can live with. We believe that, given the scale of the problem and the fact that compensation has been paid by other ministries, this should also be done in the case of defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Chairman. Thousands, military and civilian personnel, are victims of a political decision, namely the AOW-hole. That is why hundreds of soldiers and civilians have been present at the hearing and the debate in recent weeks. Today they are following this debate with great interest, and that will also apply to the votes next Tuesday. The coalition has now made a proposal, but that seems suspiciously like half a job: it does not do justice to the problem caused by politics. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the AOW gap was not caused by Defence personnel, but by a legislative amendment by the government;]] [[Whereas a large group of former employees are experiencing a significant fall in income;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort to close the AOW gap by extending the UMM and waiting payments up to the age of AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Chairman. It is good to remind you that the AOW-hole was created by the increase in the AOW-age. The agreement was made in the so-called spring agreement between the VVD, the CDA, D66, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. Once a coalition was forged between the VVD and the Labour Party, the Labour Party was also partly responsible for the creation of that AOW-hole. The key to a complete compensation to which the military and civilian personnel of Defence are entitled when it comes to the AOW-hole is thus in the hands of the VVD and the Labour Party. They have brought it so far that we are now in this situation. They are also the ones who have the key to solving this completely. I have looked at the strategy of the Minister of Defence and understood that it was intended to solve this problem in negotiations with the unions. The conclusion is, however, that this problem has not been resolved and that the Minister of Defence has simply failed in this respect: there is no solution! Then the Chamber said that we should go wider. So we wanted to talk to three ministers about this. It is not just the Minister of Defence that we can address, but also the Secretary of State for Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. We were in a meeting with these three rulers and had to find that all three were hiding behind their own wallet and behind their own weets. Of any willingness to come to a solution, nothing turned out to be at all. This means that not only the Minister of Defence has failed on this point, but that the cabinet seems to be failing on this point. Then there is only one solution, namely that the VVD and the Labour Party come to a joint solution, a complete compensation. They don't. They come with half a job, which is a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	We came here at the end of the Chamber's input. The Minister has all the motions. So I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr. Chairman. I thank you and the members. The AOW-hole is a subject that concerns the moods and I understand that all too well. Defense has come up with a solution, or an arrangement. The judge has clearly stated that the current solution is inadequate. I have already said during last week's debate with the Court that we are naturally going to do justice to the judgment of the Court and that a new provision is being made. I explained at that time that the current provision and the new provision will be paid out of the Defence Space Working Conditions. That's not so weird in itself. If you find a new provision that offers more than the previous provision, it goes without saying that there will be pressure on space working conditions. It is then quite a complicated puzzle to keep the balance between those who have left the service and are entitled to a provision for the AOW-hole and the active servants. I am therefore pleased that the VVD and the PvdA have joined forces and have sought an opportunity to ease the pressure on space working conditions. They will do so by tabling the relevant amendment this afternoon. I don't know the amendment. I'll wait for that with interest. However, that was exactly the signal that Defence could use well: lighting on space working conditions. It serves the interests of those who leave the service and those who are currently actively serving. I therefore look forward to the amendment with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	The minister says that this was exactly the signal that Defense could use it. Of course, the Chamber always has the right to amend. That is also very good; I also said that I appreciate that. But isn't this also a certificate of inability of the cabinet itself? Despite all the signals and the fact that all the problems had been known for a long time, a solution could not be found within the cabinet, preferably before last week's AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	Fortunately, the Chamber has budget rights. I told you last week that there will be a solution. Over the past week, I have seen a number of articles which state that there is still no solution, but a new provision is being made. We are going to do justice to the judgments of the judge. I understand that Mr Knops is concerned about the pressure that has arisen on the balance between the active servants and those who have left the service. The said amendment relieves this pressure. That's gonna give us some room for manoeuvre for the D.O.D. Although, "playing space" isn't the right word here. It gives some space and air for the Defense Department to put this facility well into the scaffolding, and that is exactly what we are going to do. Again, I do not know the amendment. What I would have liked to repeat today, and in fact I am doing so, is that there should be a solution on the left or right or a provision, both for citizens and for the military, which does justice to the judgments of the judge. There's one big difference between the civilians and the military. The RVU levy which the amendment allegedly monitors does not apply to citizens. Mr Teeven has already explained it. It is therefore logical that the focus should be on the military, so on those who are forced to leave the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thanks for the half answer. After all, my question as to whether this should not have been resolved within the cabinet has not yet been answered. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. Together with Mr Dijkgraaf, I have tabled an amendment aimed at providing an additional 100 million for the defence sector. That is also in the context of the Court's budget law. I hope that the PvdA and the VVD will also support that amendment, because then we can really do something for Defence. We shall see that at the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	The Minister is standing here shiningly proclaiming that the cabinet is coming up with a solution that does justice to the judge's ruling. Does the solution the cabinet is going to come up with include full compensation for the AOW-hole? Does it mean that it will be for both the citizens and the military of the Defense Department as if there had been no AOW-hole? So does that law lead to a complete sealing of the AOW-hole and does it also work retroactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	I am not going to read the tables now, but I have previously sent the Chamber a letter in which it has been made clear what the new provision is likely to look like and that we are doing justice to the judge's ruling. I have also explained to the Court earlier that the tax effects in the current provisions are not, therefore, compensated for the new provision. In other words, the present allowance is equal to the gross AOW benefit, including the income support AOW and the building up of the holiday allowance. Please note that the tax effects are not taken into account. In the case of the increased provision, we shall do so. That's the brutality of the AOW; that's what this is about. That's actually spelled out in the letter I sent to the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	That's a lot of words, but of course it's about the wool. It's about what the military end up with in their pockets. Is that a full compensation? Are they put in a situation as if there never was an AOW-hole? If the Minister does not say 'yes' to that, the answer is 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	Well, I guess I'll just go back into the tables. Someone gets a salary. At some point, he or she leaves the service. We are talking about a citizen and then we are talking about waiting money compensation. In the situation where the pension is paid, which is in the case of a military at 65, compensation is added, so that there is no excessive fall in income. And eventually, people get their pensions and their AOW. This has really been shared before and it's spelled in the letter I just spoke about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	This is remarkable. The Minister stressed that she had not yet seen the amendment, but she seemed very relieved. I just heard Mr Teven honestly say that it will only partly solve the injustice that has been done to these people. Does the Minister share that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	As far as I have understood Mr Teeven correctly, it is a question of this Chamber, and the VVD and the PvdA in particular, saying that the present provision is inadequate and that the Minister must do justice to the judgments of the judge. My answer to that is: I certainly do. The new provision would cost a cumulative amount of over 600 million. Some of them are covered by the so-called RVU levy. The compensation of the VVD and the PvdA is apparently watching over that. That gives air in the room for working conditions, and that's good for the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	Those are a lot of words, but it is not a complete solution for the AOW-hole. I think this is a tissue for the bleeding. It would adorn the Minister if she recognized it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	I'm not from the wipes before the bleeding, but I'm from following the judge's rulings. I'm gonna do that. I said that last week and I repeat it now. Any lighting offered by the Chamber, which has the budget right, in the area of working conditions, is very welcome. I would like to thank the VVD and the PvdA for that. Of course I still have to deal with the motions. What I am going to say is true of the motion by Mr Houwers and Mr Krol, but actually for all three motions. It's about unpaid checks. If something has to be financed from another part of the national budget, it is a good practice for the proposers to come up with cover. I can't go into uncovered checks. Therefore, I must discourage all three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	This is The Hague's jargon. Of course, we leave it open where cover can come from. In any case, we have said that it should not come from the working conditions that the Minister is trying to get her out of. This is a government-wide responsibility, and I believe that the Minister has recognised this earlier. It is then very faint to say now that there should be a cover. This just needs to be repaired. There are options for this; for example, Mr Teeven had a motion prepared, although unfortunately he had not tabled it. But there are other options. So it's a little faint that this is pushed in a certain direction. The options are there and it is up to the minister and the other ministers in the cabinet to choose the best solution. That is how the motion should be read. It should not be suggested that there would be no money, because that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	I am happy to see the amendments. For the moment, I repeat what I just said. First of all, there will be a solution that does justice to the judgment of the judge. It is paid from the Defence budget, in particular from the area of working conditions. There was concern about the pressure that would arise. We seek a balance between those who leave the service and those who serve. This concern is now being alleviated by the fact that two parties have joined forces and tabled an amendment, although I do not know it myself. Pay something with nothing, because that's the way the motions say, isn't it? I'm gonna have to row with the belts I have. Those belts are also perfectly clear to Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	I like to hear about belts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	Yes, the chairman has a hobby: rowing, and that includes belts. But we're not gonna talk about that right now. I think it is a question of resolving this problem. The RVU revenue, the incidental income received by Secretary of State Wiebes, can be used for this purpose. But all kinds of solutions are possible. Did I hear the minister correctly? Has she said that this amendment tabled by the PvdA and the VVD is part of the solution and that it is going to solve the rest in the way the judges have said, namely compensation for both the military and the citizens? If that's what the Minister meant, I could hold my motion or do anything else. I'm willing to listen to the Minister, but I haven't heard her say this yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	A provision has been made, the current provision. The court has, understandably, stated that that provision is inadequate and that we must bring an appeal. That's what we're doing right now. The House has previously received a letter on this subject, which we discussed with each other last week. So I have already said that I would like to stress this to everyone who is concerned about this..... that we are going to solve this. We are going to provide for the excessive relapse that the judge is talking about. It is now a question of whether the pressure that has arisen in the area of working conditions is being relieved. Members of the VVD and the PvdA have just answered this question, but there will be a solution. We are going to do justice to the judgment of the judge, for both civilians and military. The big difference between these two groups is that the RVU tax applies only to military personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	Then my question is almost superfluous. I would just like to make it quite clear to him, because this was formulated in the AA by the Minister in a rather general way. We now have a letter saying that it is intended only for the military. So the Minister is now explicitly saying that military and citizens are being compensated. If so, I'm going to hold my motion and we're going to see if the Minister can get this done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u44	For the record, the letter I sent yesterday was about appealing, following a court ruling, I believe it was in Roermond. The point is that the Central Appeals Council has spoken. There can no longer be an appeal against that. In court, in the case of the military, it was about the civilian employees. The court has spoken of military. I have said, in line with the Central Appeals Board, that I will not appeal against it. That's the situation. But I have already said, and I repeat this again, that there is going to be a solution. It cannot be that civilians and soldiers are not provided at all. They're getting a provision now. That provision is inadequate, so we are going to increase it retroactively, in line with the judgments of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u45	I will consider holding my motion. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u46	The poignant problem with which many ex-military and former civilian personnel of the Defense Department have been playing for some time now. And it's playing now. The Minister says that she is coming up with a solution, I think it is no more than half an egg, and hopefully not an empty shell, but it is important for those concerned when they see something of it. When are they gonna get that money in their wallet? Can the Minister tell us at what time these people can expect that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u47	In the cases in which judgment was given, we acted directly. We are now in the process of organizing that appeal immediately. It does not, of course, make sense only for cases brought before the Court of First Instance. We want to do this for everyone, for both civilians and military. So we are now working on a generic regulation. In the end, this generic regulation requires the agreement of our unions. That's what we need to talk about. However, I am not going to sit on my hands. We will get to work as soon as possible and ensure that this appeal is paid back to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u48	You are therefore also dependent on the agreement of the unions. That may be so, but the government could, of course, transfer money from the moment the unions turn out to be a little difficult to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u49	For the record, I am not being heard saying that the unions are doing a bit of trouble. The representatives of the unions are in the public gallery, so if I said something like that, I would have a problem immediately. So I'm throwing that far from me. It's about finding a solution. This solution was first created and developed in response to statements in individual cases, but ultimately, the provision we are now putting into the scaffolding applies to everyone and is therefore generic. Indeed, I hope to make agreements on this with our unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u50	I don't think it's really possible. The Minister is pleased with an amendment that does not provide a complete solution for the AOW-hole. She then threw the three motions tabled by Members of Parliament off the table with one stone because they would not have financial coverage. The Minister could at least assess these motions separately. Then she would see that my motion says: "calls on the government to make an effort to close the AOW hole." Isn't that exactly what this government should do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u51	That's what this government does, with me first. It is not for nothing that I say that I also said last week that there will be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u52	Then the Minister should not wipe my motion off the table, but say: Van Dijk, it is a great motion; I am going to do my very best and I am going to make an effort to do so. Let it be a complete solution to the problem of the AOW-hole rather than a half solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u53	I stand by my position: I advise against the three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-2.u54	On Tuesday, the motions tabled will be put to the vote. I see the spokesmen for the next VAO sitting in the room, so we can proceed immediately.
