ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u1	Madam President. MPs said we're talking about a 1810 law. That was a joke from every MP who said it. This law is not from 1810, but from 2003. In 2003, we adopted the Mining Act. We are now discussing amendments to this 2003 law. Indeed, as spokesmen said, this law deals mainly with fossil energy. But "fossil energy" is not a dirty term. It's something that 94% of our entire society is about. 94% of society runs on fossil energy. So if you find "fossil energy" a dirty term and don't want gas consumption anymore, you actually make it impossible for society to spin. Electricity can't be produced, cars no longer run, in winter we can't heat our house, we can't cook, the offices can't be heated and the factories can't run. Society is still at 94% on fossil energy at the moment. So it is simply our responsibility to ensure that this can continue in a proper manner. Of this fossil energy, gas is the least burdensome and most environmentally friendly form. That means it's very good if you're trying to make the most of gas. It's also not wrong if you don't want to depend on Qatar, Russia or Iran for your gas, but see if you can use the gas you have available in your own country in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u2	I fully agree with the Minister, but not with the idea that we would depend on Russia and Qatar. How much of our gas is actually from Russia and Qatar, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u3	If we no longer have our own gas because we say no to any gas extraction in the Netherlands, it is not that we no longer need gas, just as the people on Schiermonnikoog simply need gas. There is a large tube running from the mainland to Schiermonnikoog, so that they can use gas there. That gas has to come from somewhere. If it can't come from Groningen, can't come from small fields and can't come from our fields in the North Sea, then it has to come from somewhere else. Then I still have warm feelings with Norway, but the LNG comes from Qatar and Iran. The gas via the pipelines then comes to a large extent from Russia. That's all part of it. If you don't let the gas come from your own country, you have to import it and then this kind of country is in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u4	I fully agree with the Minister when he says: we simply need that gas that we win in the Netherlands. But I object to the idea that we would depend on Russia or Qatar. The gas flowing through our pipes comes from Russia for about 5%. Almost all of this is simply traded and resold; we don't even use that here. We can import more than enough gas from Norway to provide our own energy supply. The image that is being created, namely that we would depend on the Russians and on the people of the Arab world, is simply not quantitatively correct. I'd like to put that right here for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u5	That's not right. It really is a distortion of reality to say: Russia is not interesting and Qatar is not in the picture, because at the moment only 5% of our gas is coming from Russia. Yes, thank you the cuckoo! That is because, on balance, we are not importing countries. We are, on balance, an exporting country at the moment. But if we consistently say no to everything that contains the word 'gas', whether it is in Woerden or Schiermonnikoog or Terschelling or in Groningen, or anywhere else, then we are no longer an exporting country. Then we cannot meet our own needs. Then we'll have to bring it in from abroad. In that very large LNG terminal in Rotterdam gas is stored which is simply purchased on the world market. That comes from countries like I just mentioned. Due to the large Nord Stream 1 pipeline from Russia to Western Europe, the gas goes from Germany to the Netherlands. Gas is also coming from Norway, but Russia, Qatar, Iran and such countries are also in sight. I wanted to convey that we should not pretend that we can say without commitment: fossil energy is nothing and gas is nothing, we are only in favour of sustainable, clean and safe, and the rest is all wrong. That's irresponsible. That is not in the interests of the Dutch. The Dutch have an interest in keeping their society running, keeping jobs, keeping their homes warm, the hospitals running, electricity being there, driving by car and being able to travel by train. For the time being, you're gonna need 94% fossil energy. I know very well that we should not talk about this in the future. And, with all due respect, I am much more on the line of fire than the Members of Parliament every day when it comes to the transition to renewable energy. I must ensure that this transition to renewable energy is achieved. Goals have been formulated to which I must stick. I must ensure that these are translated into concrete plans and that those plans are implemented, even if there is opposition to them. I spend every day working on renewable energy. So I know very well what we need to talk about in the future. I also know the percentage that we can now use, namely 6%. I know that this needs to be more in the future, but I also know that fossil energy is very important for Dutch society at the moment and that the Dutch citizens can expect us to stand up for their interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u6	I appreciate the Minister's commitment to the transition to a sustainable energy supply. I see the minister go to war to create wind farms. I definitely appreciate that. We have agreed objectives for reducing CO emissions. These are European objectives and we must stick to them. However, I believe that such a commitment to renewable energy should go hand in hand with an exit plan for fossil energy. I do not hear the Minister say very much about that. Sometimes it seems as if any location of oil and gas that meets all kinds of conditions can be used. Then I taste very little ambition from the Minister, even after the climate agreement, to say that from now on we should do it differently, to say that my commitment is more renewable energy, but that must go hand in hand with less fossil energy. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u7	My energy policy is one big exit plan for fossil energy. I am absolutely convinced that by 2050 we must be independent of fossil energy. This is enshrined in the coalition agreement, in the energy agreement, in COP21, in the Paris agreement, and in the agreements between the European Commission and the Member States. I'm convinced of that, too. I think that should be done. When I started as a minister, there was 96% fossil energy in the Netherlands. Now that's 94%. I've got to get to it that we'll finally have that new situation by 2050. For this purpose, I have been given intermediate targets in the coalition agreement. I helped capture them myself in the energy agreement. They are very ambitious objectives and I will have to pull them very hard. If I manage it, by 2023, 16% of our energy will be sustainable. However, by 2023, 84% will still be fossil energy. I am therefore responsible for the work, health care and heating of the homes of all the people in the Netherlands, but also for the heating of this building, for the offices and factories and for the electricity. I'm responsible for all this going down, too. I can assure the Chamber that the country would be too small if this were not to run, if we could not partly heat the houses in the winter if it is very cold or if problems were to arise in the fuel supply for cars. Then there will be protests from the country. People are counting on it and they are confident that the government will ensure a responsible transition to renewable energy. In addition, we will continue to pay attention to fossil energy during the transitional period and make the most of the cleanest form, gas, in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u8	The Minister is making a plea to keep our economy running. I understand that, but that economy needs to be based on clean energy, especially after the agreements we made in Paris under the climate agreement. His commitment to renewable energy is commendable, but I do not yet see that we are making a change in the use of fossil energy from a yes, if-policy to a no, unless-policy. I do not yet see that we are saying goodbye to the policy of, for example, the gas roundabout. We still cling to fossil systems from the 20th century. The Mining Act that is now before us is a twentieth-century law that does not make enough the transition to new forms of energy. I call the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. Through you and with your permission, I would like to appeal to Mrs Dik that she should also be aware of that 94% of our society that is focused on fossil energy. Don't forget that, take that into account. These are the interests of the 17 million people in our country who all want to work and live and move. We must not ignore this. Mrs Dik can see how in practice I am doing my best for renewable energy. I am working without any restraint towards 2050; then we will have gone all the way to renewable energy. In the interim, we must ensure a responsible transition and I am committed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u10	This is certainly the main theme of this debate. That is why so many amendments have been tabled. Do we want to set up the Mining Act in such a way that it will become an instrument for that transition or will there be all kinds of possibilities in the Mining Act which extends the fossil age? When the Minister says that he is trying to provide the Netherlands with fossil energy for the places where it is still necessary and cannot clean it, I do not understand why we are sticking to the gas roundabout strategy, why, for example, a lower corporate tax should apply to gas and oil companies or why a split-off of existing permits is advocated which gives companies an economic advantage. I understand that in the meantime, you have to keep what you're taking down alive. It now seems that the Minister is doing more than the minimum necessary to supply the Netherlands with gas for its own use. I wonder if he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u11	I totally disagree with Mrs Van Tongeren. What I do is in the interests of the Dutch people. The Dutch people would not buy anything for me if I were to focus on renewable energy and neglect the fact that our society is still, for the most part, focused on fossil energy. I like to maintain that society and I would like to make a responsible transition. That's what I'm committed to. Gas roundabout isn't a dirty word. The gas roundabout means that we have developed a good gas market in the Netherlands. Gas is coming from all sides to the Netherlands and if we can gain less gas in our own country and are more dependent on abroad, we have options. It then runs through our country and we keep our own grip on it. Even if we no longer or to a lesser extent have our own gas, because of the gas roundabout we still hold a firm position. There has been talk of corporation tax for the extraction of the small quantities of gas and oil remaining in the North Sea. Mrs. Van Tongeren calls that "junk gas." I don't understand the whole tone. Gas and oil are needed and we have been able to win them in the North Sea. We can continue to do so in the future, although the fields are drained and it is becoming less profitable. We want everything that can be extracted safely, wisely and responsibly, to be won, despite the fact that it is becoming less profitable and at some point no longer profitable. We meet these companies so much that it is just interesting for them to extract the oil and gas that is still in it. That's just very sensible. After all, we do not need to extract the oil and gas we extract from our own soil from the soil of other countries. We have to pay for that. And who's gonna pay for that? The Dutch citizen. Instead of taking advantage of the money generated by our own oil and gas, we must then pay the money we are working hard for in the Netherlands to other countries. The Dutch citizen doesn't buy anything for that, does he? Why should we abandon the oil and gas that we ourselves have and can responsibly extract and use, and buy from another? That's what makes ourselves poor when we don't get along with it. That's very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u12	The Minister brings it as if there is no other choice. The countries around us have much more clean energy. They are more committed to energy saving than we do. The Minister will say he's doing the best he can, but a lot of it's more trade-related. Mr. Vos said it, too. This is not intended for personal use in the Netherlands. We are a very large port of transit for coal and oil, and we want to have that position in terms of gas. That's a choice. The Minister can defend that as a choice. The VVD might think that's a fantastic idea, but it's not inevitable. This shows the political choices in other countries. Today we have a debate on what kind of political choice you want to make. My party's clear. I'd like to know from the government what choice it is. This minister always gets into trouble because he defends two choices. On the one hand everyone has to go the clean side: windmills, solar panels everywhere. Then the minister doesn't understand why he's being resisted. On the other hand, wherever he can, he wants the last small scraps of gas. That is why this minister has so incredibly much resistance in the Netherlands. He doesn't say clearly what he's doing and what he's doing. He wants everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u13	Of course I make two choices. I'd be crazy if I didn't make two choices. The first choice I make is the choice for renewable energy. That's what I'm full of. Mrs Van Tongeren says that other countries are farther in that than we are. I say that, in this cabinet period, we are doing the absolute maximum to get as much renewable energy as possible in the Netherlands as quickly as possible. If Mrs Van Tongeren does not agree, I would ask her to tell me where more windmills are to be installed on land. What I'm doing right now is putting five times the largest wind farm in the world at sea in five years. Five years in a row five times the largest wind farm! Does Mrs Van Tongeren want me to put seven or eight in those five years? I'm really doing the best I can. The first choice I made is the choice for renewable energy. The second choice I made is the choice to keep our country going. I wouldn't be worth a snipe in front of me. I wouldn't be standing here for a day if I didn't realize that 94% of our society is still on fossil energy. Surely it is unthinkable that I should create mass unemployment here and leave people in the cold in the winter, just because I neglect it? That's impossible, isn't it? If, in the Netherlands, in the North Sea and in our country, we can obtain oil and gas responsibly, would it be foolish not to do so and instead buy oil and gas abroad? We would then allow our people to pay taxes and people would have less to the government because if necessary money would have to be transferred abroad unnecessarily. I do make two choices, and they are both necessary. I challenge Mrs Van Tongeren to say that things have to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u14	With all due respect, the Minister is making it a caricature. No one here in the Chamber says today's gas tap can be shut down tomorrow. The Party for Animals, for example, follows the advice of the SodM from a number of years ago, which says that you can provide security of supply with 12 billion cubic tons of gas per year. You then make sure, for example, that there are no earthquakes at all. Now the Minister has decided to sit twice over the 12 billion cube. There's no one telling us to go straight to zero. We say that we must get to that zero as quickly as possible. That cannot be done overnight, but it must be done within a foreseeable period, if that is possible within a number of years. 12 billion could be a maximum. In addition, you can indeed bet on parks with electric windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u15	Let's put it as clearly as possible this afternoon. I'm gonna try to do that myself. Over the past two to three years I have seen between fifteen and twenty small gas fields in the Netherlands. On every gas field, the House of Representatives has said that we should not choose to do so because the people do not want to do so. She said no to every small gas field that came into the picture, without one exception. You are now saying that 12 billion cubic metres of gas from Groningen is sufficient for security of supply. Apologies for the word, Madam President, but that's "chatter." That's just "chat." There's a report from GTS that says we can come out half the years with 24 billion cubic meters. For the other half of the years, we need more. And State surveillance of the mines tells me that it must be as stable as possible with regard to those 24 billion cubic metres. Indeed, if you do less one time and the other time more, there will be large fluctuations which will result in more earthquakes. I wasn't hired to create more earthquakes. I've been hired to make sure there are fewer earthquakes. Madam President, I would like to say once again that it is "chat" to suggest that with 12 billion cubic metres of natural gas you can get out of Groningen. It can't be! 24 billion, Mr Wassenberg, 24 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u16	I didn't pull that 12 billion cubic feet out of my mind. That was the advice of State surveillance of the mines. It was said that this could satisfy the security of supply and that, in addition, as stable a extraction as possible should be considered. But 12 billion cubic meters should be enough. The minister has been whistled back by the judge a number of times. We're going to have to go to that 12 billion cubic meters, and eventually we're going to have to go to zero cubic meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr Wassenberg does not know what this is about, or he deliberately misreads the reality here. Last Friday, the documents were made public on the basis of which the cabinet took a provisional decision on the future extraction in Groningen. There are two pieces that are of interest to him. One piece is from GTS which states that 24 billion cubic meters are needed at least and that you can cover half of the years. The other piece is from SodM, in which it is advised to assume 24 billion cubic metres, not 12 billion cubic metres, Mr Wassenberg. 24 billion! The Mining Act aims to ensure that permits for the extraction of oil and gas are granted transparently and fairly. It's not like when someone comes to me with a nice story, I can say, "Good, you can get gas there." Nor is it the case that when the Chamber comes up with a motion that says that Tulip Oil should only be allowed to win oil in Woerden in case one stops with his plan for Terschelling, this will happen. That's not how it works in this country. We have set out together in the Mining Act how licence applications can be handled in a fair and transparent manner. We have settled how to lay good conditions for this in the areas of safety and reduction of nuisance. We also need to get rid of the idea that a permit is only granted for a short while, thereby ignoring the citizens. Let me give you the example of Schiermonnikoog. I've been there a few times, and there are people in the stands who come from there. Let's see if these people are ignored in exerting influence on what's happening there. It starts with the request for an APB. All stakeholders, including all people living on Schiermonnikoog, may object. In their view, if that objection is not properly dealt with, they can appeal to the Council of State. Once that search permit has been granted after the procedure of objection and appeal has been completed, they may proceed if an environmental permit is issued. For an environmental permit, views may be submitted by any person. If the person concerned does not agree with the statement made on the relevant point of view, he may return to the Council of State. There must be a permit under the Nature Protection Act. Views may then be submitted by any person. Then one can go back to the Council of State. A mining permit must then be issued. All interested parties may object to this. If that objection is not accepted and it is not accepted, we can go back to the Council of State. Next, the three new permits must be issued: another environmental permit, another permit under the Nature Conservation Act... and then there must be a consent decision for a extraction plan. In all three of them, they can submit views and go back to the Council of State. In addition, the environmental permit and the Nature Protection Act permit must be an EIA. That whole procedure lasts at least ten years. There is seven times the opportunity to come up with an opinion or an objection. There is also time and again the opportunity to go to the Council of State. So let's not pretend that the people in Schiermonnikoog are being pushed down the throat, because that is absolutely not the case. We have laid it down in the law in a very careful way. I think there is more reason to do what Mr Bosman suggested. He wondered whether, given the many procedures, it would not be good to have some of these procedures run the same way, so that people on Schiermonnikoog, for example, would be more clear and would not have to tell them the same thing three times and not the same thing three times. Well, you could combine it, too. What I understand from Mr Bosman is that I do not need to combine it, leave it aside, but do it at the same time. I think it would be very wise to look at that. But let's not suggest that this is all rushed through. There is absolutely no question of that. I shall now try to deal with the various points raised by the spokesmen. I shall begin by saying a few more about the Mining Act in general. Then I'm going to say something about damage and reversal of the burden of proof and then about the Wadden area. Next, I would like to comment on the letters of amendment submitted on CCS and on security of supply. Then I come to the draft agreement on Groningen, on the situation in Limburg and on the situation in Twente, which I always like to talk about. I shall then turn to some other issues that have been raised. Finally, I will respond to the amendments. There is a certain overlap between the various blocks and the amendments. I don't know if I can break it up all right. Moreover, I have not yet received some of the amendments. I believe that there are now 30 amendments. The Bureau of Legislation does not seem to be able to keep up with that here. Amendments have also been announced which I have not yet seen. In any case, I will try to deal with everything as well as possible. If something goes wrong, I assume that I will be given the opportunity to restore it. Then I'll start with some general things about the Mining Act. I have already indicated that my entire policy is aimed at having an exit from fossil towards sustainability. So the energy report, the Energy Dialogue and the Energy Agenda are all about that. Mrs Dik-Faber proposed changing the name of the law to sustainable soil management law. I don't think that's a good idea because it wouldn't be a flag covering the cargo. The Mining Act deals with the admissibility of mining activities. Soil protection is one of the interests involved in the assessment. As I said, we want to keep our economy going. That's also one of the things that's involved. That is why I am not taking over the proposal for that name change. Mr Wassenberg has said that the Mining Act is a market organisation law aimed only at efficient extraction. It is not right that the Mining Act is only aimed at market organization. Of course, there are licences, namely the search permit and the extraction licence, which are of a market organisation nature, but then I must also go through with the extraction plan and the approval decision for the extraction plan. There is also a link in the Mining Act with the environmental permit and the Nature Protection Act license. You can't just go under that Mining Act. I have just indicated on the basis of Schiermonnikoog's example how much the Nature Protection Act and the Environment Act are involved in this. So it is a complex of legislation that aims to defend that which is in the general interest of the people of the Netherlands in a responsible way. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that the Mining Act is part of the Environment Act. Well, that's not true. Before drilling or winning, mining permits and environmental permits are required. I've just sketched out the picture of how that works. I have also indicated all the objections and appeals. I have already referred to Mr Bosman's suggestion on this point. I shall come back to this in a little more detail later. Mr Bosman asked how I can ensure that the safety of the inhabitants is at the top. To judge that, you don't just have to look at what we do with the Mining Act. I hope that Mr Bosman has received that. After all, all other laws and procedures play an equally important role in this. The order is crystal clear to me. The first priority is the safety of people, just as Mr Bosman said. The second priority is to prevent damage. This damage involves not only the physical damage to a house, but also all the concerns surrounding it. It affects people's well-being very much, and therefore damage is a priority for several reasons. The third priority is that I would like to keep the country going, or security of supply. Those are the priorities. Mr Bosman also asked about linking the permits. I've already gone into that. He has announced an amendment on this point which I may have in the meantime. If I go into that amendment, I will say a little more in detail. Mrs Van Tongeren asked if the present bill extends the grounds for refusal. That is indeed the case. We are extending the grounds for refusal with this bill, and we are doing so for the following reasons. If we do not want to allow fracking, I should be able to refuse the application. If I know that there are fault lines in a particular area and that there should not be any new extraction there, then I should be able to refuse it on that ground. If I do not want to be won in a particular area because of the composition of the subsurface and drinking water interests, then I must be able to refuse it for that reason. For example, a number of grounds for refusal have been identified. I will elaborate on this in a General Measure of Management. The grounds for refusal have been extended. Some of the amendments deal with this further. Soon I will continue to do so when we deal with the amendments. Mrs Van Tongeren has asked why no hook for an EIA is included in the Mining Act. I have just indicated, in Schiermonnikoog's example, that a complete EIA must be created twice throughout the procedure. I hope Mrs Van Tongeren is satisfied with that. After all, there will be plenty of these EIA activities. Mr Wassenberg has asked why I am weakening the advisory law of local authorities. The advisory rights of local authorities are not weakened. It's being reinforced. The search permit and the extraction permit are a large area. Then you don't know exactly which municipalities and which waterboards are involved. You'll check with the county. The province has not only been given the task of giving independent advice, but has also been given the task of involving the municipalities and the water boards in that advice. There is therefore an extension of the task of municipalities and water boards. Municipalities and water authorities are granted independent advisory rights when the extraction plan is drawn up and when the extraction plan is amended. I have outlined seven possibilities for citizens to object or appeal. Governments can also make use of these opportunities. In addition, they also have an advisory right, kicked one time and then directly. If it's kicked, it's because it's most functional. I think we should pay attention to that with each other. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why I do not want to involve the citizens and the waterboards in the mining decisions. I hope that Schiermonnikoog's example has made it clear that this is probably a joke by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u18	We're all up against the recess. I'm also told the Minister's a bit of annoyed. However, I asked for direct advice. That was in the original amendment, so I'm not kidding. I asked whether democratically elected bodies such as water boards and municipalities could advise directly. The minister says they can't do this. We can have a difference of opinion on that, but if the Minister says I'm kidding, he doesn't do justice to my rather serious intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u19	Well, as you put it, it was a lot sharper than I put it. Anyway, that's your right. This is your house and I'm just a guest here. I will therefore be extra tidy, but perhaps I can say that these citizens can object seven times in the case of one possible extraction. In addition, they can also go to the Council of State afterwards. Citizens do not get a right to advice, because that is the way things are in our country. You have the ability to object or express an opinion. Advisory law is there for governments. Those governments are the provinces, municipalities and water boards. Municipalities and water authorities have direct advisory rights in respect of a extraction plan and the modification of a extraction plan. In the case of an investigative licence and a mining licence, it goes down through the province and there are good reasons for doing so. You cannot say, as you have done, that waterboards and citizens will not be involved and that they will not be given the opportunity to speak. They're gonna get that opportunity abound!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u20	I never find control abound, but I'm gonna leave that in the middle now. Our difference of opinion is indeed in the question of whether it should be stepped on or not. The explanatory statement states that in the case of a search party citizens... citizens do not yet know exactly where it will take place and then it is very difficult to ask for a specific municipality. It is therefore laid down in the province, but the province has an even bigger problem than the minister, because the province only has eight weeks to organise it for all municipalities and water boards and perhaps also for the water companies and the citizens concerned. Why not a little longer term? My original question was why these opinions should not be addressed directly to the Minister. I still don't understand the importance of not doing it like this. I know I'm probably gonna get a bake sail at this point, but I just don't understand why it would be a problem for an opinion from a municipality or a waterboard to be sent directly to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u21	A search permit shall not be requested for the territory of a municipality. A map then shows a large block and includes several municipalities and water boards. Sometimes even several provinces fall under such a large block. Companies say: maybe there's gas there, and I'd like to look into that. Besides, in the first three years of such an investigation, there's no drilling. During the first three years, all kinds of other things are investigated, for example how the geology of the soil looks and how much is expected to be won in a particular place. Only when they have the idea that there is something there, will they drill. So there is a large block on a map and that leads to the question of how best to involve the public authorities. Since it is a large block and it is not known to which municipality it will be related later, we have thought, for good reasons, that it is best to go to the provincial government. The province is given formal advisory rights and the opportunity to talk to municipalities and water boards and to involve their views in their own advice. Then I can take advantage of that in the decision-making process. If it becomes more concrete and it is clear that there is something in a certain place that one wants to win, there must be a extraction plan. Then I have to take an assent decision and then municipalities, water boards and the province get formal advisory rights. I will also consult with the security region. The objections, the appeals procedures and the views are all reflected in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u22	The Minister has chosen the intermediate layer of the provinces, but why did he not oblige the provinces to consult the municipalities and the water boards before giving their opinion? If you change the determination into a will clause, you will know for sure that the municipalities concerned and the water boards concerned will be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u23	I did it this way, because I fully trust the provinces. I've been a member of a provincial board for years and even twice as long of a municipal board. I know how these governments deal with each other. They take their duties as seriously as Mrs Van Veldhoven takes her Second Parliamentary Membership seriously. That's the way it is with the provinces. If a province is asked for advice, that province would like to do it well. That province is looking at which municipalities may be involved and which are specifically approached. The other municipalities are also given the opportunity to come if they wish. It's just gonna happen like this. That's the way it is in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u24	If it's always like this, you might as well make it a right of the municipalities. This gives them an additional sense of recognition for their part in this problem, while, in the words of the Minister, it will change nothing. It also gives legal certainty to residents who think: it happens in my municipality, how do I ensure that I can make my concerns known through the channels that are available to them? This is always easier via the municipality than via the province, which is a bit more remote for people. If people know that their congregation has the right to contribute, that might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u25	The people don't need the city and the county at all. They will have the opportunity to object. Let me give you the example of Schiermonnikoog. At the time when a search permit is applied for, the province is asked for an opinion. The province can consult with the municipality of Schiermonnikoog. Apart from the fact that Schiermonnikoog is involved in that advisory right, it can also simply make use of the possibility of objection. The municipality and its citizens can therefore object. We have two things, namely advice and objection. Objection can always be made by anyone, by municipalities, by the province and by citizens. The advisory right works in terms of search permits and extraction permit kicked, as I have described. In the case of the extraction plan or its modification, side directly. I believe that we have put in place a proper regime, which also goes well beyond the existing one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u26	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mrs Van Tongeren asked for the Mining Act to stipulate that landowners are entitled to a usage fee. I would like to come back to that later in the discussion of her amendment. Mr Smaling asked how the new law lays down the obligation to provide information. The Council of State has said that the obligation to provide information contained in the earlier amendment on this subject, the amendment in part No. 35 gave the injured parties an unbiased right to request information. He says that it is very unusual to do so, because there can be just legitimate interests of companies that need to be protected. If someone asks, everything shouldn't have to be given just like that. In accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, I have included a claused information obligation in the legislative proposal. If there are important reasons not to provide information, that is allowed. Decisions can, of course, be reviewed and they can be challenged. If there are important reasons, it may be omitted. If this is not the case, the information must be provided. As far as information rests with the public authorities, I have joined Articles 10 and 11 of the Public Administration Act, which also states when a government does not have to make anything public. I think it's very wise to link those things together. Otherwise, it is very difficult for all concerned to understand what is happening in one case and what is happening in the other. Mrs Dik-Faber asked why a coordination arrangement is needed in the Mining Act. The coordination arrangements are not laid down in the Mining Act. It is laid down in the Regional Planning Act, which will be incorporated into the Environment Act. However, the Mining Act lays down which mining projects are subject to the National Coordination Scheme. We have deliberately introduced this scheme with each other in order to ensure that decisions on projects of national interest are carefully coordinated and fully balanced and, if possible, speed up their decision-making. As long as mining activities are part of the Dutch energy supply and we still depend very much on fossil energy supplies, I am committed to being able to streamline and shorten the complex procedures that exist responsibly by applying the national coordination regime. Mrs Mulder asked about the risk analysis for the small fields. In the meantime, she has undoubtedly looked at what I have sent to the Chamber on this subject, TNO's report. It states that there are risks in the small fields that are incomparable with the risk of the Groningen field. The Groningenveld is a very large field. This allows you to get proper movements in the ground, as we have all noticed in recent years. In the small fields the influence on the soil is much less, precisely because they are small. As a result, the risks are incomparable. I think it is a good thing that we were able to establish this with each other after TNO has figured that out. In various places in various laws we have set up safeguards for safety for people and the environment in drilling. If a company wants to win, it will now have to make a detailed work programme which includes all the work it wants to do. We'll have that all assessed by State surveillance of the Mines. We are applying all the rules we have drawn up to that very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u28	I will come back to the previous point, namely the state coordination regime. I noticed a passage in the explanatory statement. It does indeed involve the national coordination system for the extraction of minerals for our national interest. But the importance of state revenue is also mentioned. That last argument, namely extraction because of state revenue, does not really seem to me to be a good motive for bringing this under the state coordination regime. This is particularly true after the publication of the report of the Research Council for Security. It says that one would like to put the security of the Groningen people first, not the state revenue. Does the Minister agree with me that this is actually a bit of a strange passage in the explanatory statement? Is he willing to adapt it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u29	I think we should face this sort of thing. Through activities in the small fields, the state coffin receives 1 billion to 2 billion euros per year. Companies working on it invest 1 billion a year. In addition, there are 12,000 jobs. This is just about offices in Harlingen and in Amersfoort. So it's just about companies that operate here in the Netherlands and where 12,000 people work. It brings in 1 billion to 2 billion for the Dutch State and involves 1 billion in investment. If that money gets to the Dutch state, we can do something with it. It can pay benefits, it can pay health care, infrastructure, innovation promotion. We don't have to raise the money we can spend through taxes. That's something we should also be aware of, I think. So I don't think that's a dirty word either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u30	I'm a little perplexed anyway. After all, the extraction of clean energy also creates jobs at offices and is good for our economy. I just don't think this argument goes along. It is literally stated in the explanatory statement that state revenue may be a reason for the state coordination scheme. Mining is therefore important because of the national importance of good energy supplies, but also because of the state's revenue. I think the link that is being made here is just really weird. We are trying every time to put the security of the Groningen people and our energy supply first. I'm totally fine with that. But the state revenue? It's not money that should be leading, it's security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u31	The acquisition of income for the State is indeed a general interest of the Dutch. In 2013, we had 15 billion revenues for the state greenhouse from gas. This year there is 3 billion or even less gas revenues for the State Treasury. The difference is 12 billion. That money must either be raised by the citizens and businesses in a different way or the money cannot be spent. That's just the way it is. So if, as long as fossil energy is needed, we can earn fossil energy in the Netherlands in a responsible way, then I think this extraction is fine. We are trying to do this in an effective way where there are comprehensive considerations and careful decision-making. I do not think it is wrong at all that it should be mentioned in a number of places, including this place. Mrs Dik-Faber also spoke about shale gas. Mrs Van Tongeren already mentioned "scaleland." I would not refer to the Netherlands in this way, nor would I refer to Flevoland. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if I was prepared to legally lay down that shale gas is banned in the Netherlands. Of course, we can start the discussion on shale gas over and over again. We have had a long discussion about this in this house. We then drew conclusions from it. I have indicated what is not going to happen in this area during this cabinet period. I have also indicated what is not going to happen until 2020. Furthermore, I have indicated how it will happen if something will happen afterwards. I think that after that we should consider such a discussion as completed. Let us not open it again every opportunity. This was my more general introduction. I'd like to move on to the damage component now. Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about serious damage, others about serious damage. I will deal with this later in the debate on an amendment on this point. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the liability of companies for the damage they caused should not be laid down in advance in the law. Article 3:177 BW already states that the operator of a mining work is liable for the damage caused by its mining activities. In doing so, the liability for that damage has been sufficiently established. Additional provisions in the Mining Act are therefore not necessary. You're a mining company, you're a mining company, and as a result, there's damage. Whether it's soil decline or soil motion, it doesn't matter, it's caused by your activities. Then you will be fully liable and held accountable to compensate for that damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u32	I see Mrs Van Tongeren wants to interrupt. That'll be her third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u33	I know. We didn't maximize the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u34	No, but I'll try a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u35	I understand that, but this is about the crucial point for the Groningers. The pleading very often mentions "heavy damage." The Minister is right to say that the BW makes no difference. Can we use the word "damage" in all the places where the pleading says "heavy damage"? Then it's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u36	I do not need to make unnecessary corrections to Mrs Van Tongeren, with her extensive knowledge of the file. But where she speaks of "heavy damage," she means "serious damage." Those words have been chosen. I will say something about this later when I consider the amendment on this point. I do not exclude, exceptionally, that this will also lead to some satisfaction for Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u37	Well, well, well. You guys are gonna be okay! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Smaling and Mrs Mulder suggested that zero measurements of buildings should be carried out in order to assess the impact of mining at a later stage. I also believe that zero measurements of buildings can help to determine, if there is later mining damage, that the difference is caused by mining. That really helps. In this context, I would like to undertake to include the obligation to carry out a representative zero measurement of buildings in the Mining Act. I will impose this obligation if the effects of specific mining activities, the location or the environment give rise to this. Every time I think that makes sense, a representative zero measurement must be made in that area so that when problems arise, a comparison can be made with that zero measurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u39	I am extremely pleased with that, I must say. For the sake of clarity, will the Minister include this in the law and, on a case-by-case basis, consider the need for a comprehensive or less comprehensive zero measurement? Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'm gonna see how I'm gonna work that out in practice. I must temper Mr Smaling's satisfaction somewhat, because I have said before that I think it is simply useful. In Friesland Vermilion has already had experience of this; we need to see that as a standard. I am going to work that out as quickly as possible, and then I will present the result to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u41	The CDA is also very pleased with this commitment. From Friesland I hear sounds that one is happier with the zero measurement performed by Vermilion than the other. Perhaps our minister would like to put his ear to the municipal councils and residents' groups to see what it might look ideally like and then link it back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u42	There are people who think zero measurement should not be representative, but limitative. That means you have to photograph and describe every building, every barn from all sides. Of course, that's not gonna happen. I want a good, representative zero measurement to be carried out. I'm trying to work it out. I think it would be wise, as Mrs Mulder says, to look closely at the experiences of Vermilion in Friesland. I'll be sure to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you for this fine undertaking!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Smaling said we should get rid of the A-, B- and C-damages that the Centre for Safe Living works with in Groningen. I very much disagree with Mr Smaling. I'm not dealing with A-, B- and C-damage, I'm just dealing with damage. If there is damage caused by a mining activity, it must be compensated. Only, you have to get that done. So we've set up a Centrum Safe Living. That will be supervised by the National Coordinator. First, it was independently supervised by a separate committee that I appointed for that purpose. At the Safe Living Centre, the strong mandate that has been given has been put into effect. In the office, people who have been recruited work in Groningen. Whole procedures have been worked out. Customer satisfaction is well monitored. When things go wrong, they learn from it. We have also looked at how damage can be dealt with as practically as possible. For this purpose, I think that all of these definitions are fine, which have been laid down in the Earthquake Damage Handbook, so that the experts can assess the damage in a uniform and objective manner. There's also a damage protocol. That's all fine; that's their internal thing. All that matters to me is that damage caused by mining must be compensated. This should be helpful in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u45	I understand what the Minister is saying, but especially when we come to reversing the burden of proof, we have to consider what is in the Civil Code and in the Mining Act on this point. Then we'll need a two-sided damage protocol, where in the first instance the injured person with a structural engineer looks at what's wrong and already makes a judgment about it, including the invoice for the causer. Only then will the causer come into view. Now there is a strong drive from the NAM or the Centre Safe Living, so of "this is our protocol." The injured party is now in a different position than when a two-sided harm protocol is applied from the outset. Actually, both laws offer that. That's different than coming with A-, B- and C-damage. I miss the scientific ground underneath that A, B and C. I can't find it anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u46	There doesn't have to be any scientific ground. Suppose someone in Groningen reports: I have damage and I think it's from mining; then we don't say: go to court and try to prove that it's from mining. No, then the Center of Safe Living just sends a valuer there. He's recording what happened. Only, there have been 66,000 damage reports and there are dozens of experts at work to assess all of that. It shouldn't be like one sister saying and the other saying that. In Groningen, people are completely lost, and rightly so. Those experts must work according to manuals and protocols. A certain system has been introduced: damage caused by the mining activity, damage not related to the mining activity and the B category in between. That is the way they deal with it in practice. All this is fine with me, as long as it serves the purpose of a swift and proper resolution of damage; if the damage caused is compensated. I have yet to speak about the reversal of the burden of proof. Everything I do is aimed at not getting to it. I don't want people coming to court. I therefore want the Centre for Safe Living to function in such a way that people do not have to go to a judge either. It is therefore important that an offer has already been made in 60,000 of these 66,000 cases and that 80% of the cases have also been accepted. In other cases, this is still in procedure. If it's still in court, I'll try to keep it away from the judge. Then we need a second valuer first. He can still look at it. If we don't agree, we'll pick up the judge and people won't have to go to the judge in Assen or in Groningen. There'll just be a former judge, an arbitrator coming to the people. He shows up at the scene and then makes a statement. That ruling is binding on the NAM. I try to organise it in such a way that people do not have to go to court at all and that they will not need that reversal of the burden of proof in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u47	I believe that at the moment this is simply not working properly and that this is one of the main causes of the unfortunate situation in the region. There's been an exponential increase in those C-damages lately. That is what we see in these states, and we talked about it two weeks ago. Why is that? I hear this is because the NAM says to the Center Safe Living: you shouldn't award so many A- and B-damages, because it's gonna be way too expensive. People who live outside the contour are no longer served, because Arcadis has written a report that the Technical Committee on Soil Movement says is a fucking report. We are waiting for a validation of that report by the National Coordinator. That doesn't look like shit! Now is the time to opt for a damages protocol that gives the victims the idea that they and the one who probably caused their damage are equal parties. I would say: take that opportunity and do not claim that the system is now working properly, because it is clear to everyone that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u48	People aren't facing protocol at all. People do damage reports. The Safe Living Centre, which is a very neat institution, under a proper leadership, with just supervision and decent staff, then sends a valuer there. That valuer has absolutely no mandate to limit damage, to turn into things or to do it as cheaply as possible. The only assignment he has and I accept is to determine as best as possible whether there is any damage caused by the mining activity. If this is the case, the valuer must determine the extent of the damage and an offer must then be made to compensate for the damage. I would absolutely not accept any other assignment; that is what needs to be done. People have nothing to do with protocols. If they're not happy about it, you'll get the whole story I just kept. I will not repeat that now. It is not so strange that there are more damage that is said to be unrelated to gas extraction. After all, we note that the number of earthquakes is falling, while the number of damage reports is increasing. Therefore, there may be more claims where no connection to gas extraction can be found. There is also discussion about what can be done outside the so-called contours. That's another separate discussion. These are damage that is expected to be caused by soil decline. Normally, soil decline does not lead to damage. Arcadis did some research on that. That was also the outcome. That investigation is now being validated. If there is such a validation and the National Coordinator has a view on it, I would like to return to that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mrs Mulder asked about the right to compensation in the event of transfer of ownership. That's not a problem. The operator of a mining work must compensate for damage. If the damage someone has suffered has been compensated, the mining operator is done with it. However, if the damage has not yet been compensated and the house has since switched to another owner, then the new owner is entitled to the same compensation. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u51	The lack of clarity was mainly in the sale of agricultural land in which drainage systems lie. For example, I heard in Dongeradeel that at some places the soil has already dropped 11 cm. The farmer I spoke to there pointed to a problem that arises if this continues because the mining activities continue. He said: I have been told that, if I want to transfer my land, I must already include in the price the possibility that the soil will go further down and that this will destroy my entire drainage system. In view of these examples, the CDA considers it extremely important to ensure that people are not required to include possible soil declines in the price in the future. It has to be clear that it will be compensated if there is a decline in the soil in the future and if it breaks things up with you. Do I hear the secretary say that to the CDA here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u52	I always address the entire Chamber through you, Mr. Chairman. I say to the Chamber that if there is damage in any form and that damage has been compensated, it will be done. If that damage is not compensated and a change of ownership is in the meantime taking place and at some point the damage is determined and claimed, then the owner at that time can claim and receive compensation for that damage. I can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u53	That's why I'm asking around. Suppose I'm a farmer and I want to buy a piece of land that includes mining operations. A compensation has already been paid. If soil continues to decline in the future and damage is re-established, should I have settled this as a purchasing party in the selling price by paying less for that land? Or is that new damage still being compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u54	This is too concrete for me to make a ruling on it. I am not in favour of making statements in individual cases. Mrs Mulder gives an example of a farmer who has already received compensation and expects that there will be further damage in the future, not damage caused by earthquakes, but damage caused by soil degradation. These are drainage systems. I think this is too specific. This is an individual case on which I cannot rule in a policy debate with the Chamber. I think there are other ways of getting individual solutions in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u55	This was not very specific about one individual case, but it is broader: people in that part of Friesland are running into it. It's about the care that lives on that. Perhaps I could submit this case and submit it to the Minister, explaining how I got there, and the Minister could give an answer to it, perhaps in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u56	Now I hear I'm talking about Friesland. I think this is very specific. Soil decrease can have several causes. Soil degradation can be caused by natural causes. The waterboard may be working on the groundwater level because of its agricultural use. The change in groundwater levels may result in a decrease in soil levels. It may also be that the soil decline is caused by mining. I have just said what I can say about mining in this context. Even in the second term, I cannot go any further than I have done now. Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling asked me to lift the limitation period for mining damage. He talked about Germany in that connection. Germany has a lex specialise, which means that mining is not subject to a limitation period. In Germany mining is still taking place. If there is damage caused by mining, the one working on that mining is very immediately accessible. That's why the guy's gonna pay for the damage. That's the way it is in Germany. We've had an investigation initiated. I think this was done by Utrecht University......................................................................................................................................................................................... The Court had the impression that it was much better regulated in Germany and Belgium. Let us conclude that the limitation period in Germany is 10 years, which is 20 years in Belgium and 30 years in the Netherlands. So in the Netherlands we have done much better from the point of view of those who have damage than in those other countries. The UCALL report, which I have just spoken about, does not show that a formal exception has been made in German legislation for mining damage. I would point out that the limitation period in Germany is only 10 years, one third of that in our country, but that there is a specific case of ongoing mining. In individual cases, this leads to different results than here in the Netherlands, where, despite the 30-year period, there is also a limitation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u57	I thought I had the minister in my first term. In June 2014 he sent a letter to the Chamber referring to the lex specialis I was talking about, looking back over my shoulder. In Germany there is therefore an everlasting duty of care when there is no mining there anymore. That is a different story than the ten-year limitation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u58	Then we agreed we'd have this investigated. We were gonna start a legal investigation. We did. I just indicated the outcome of the investigation. The researchers concluded that it was conveniently settled in the Netherlands, but they also said that extraction is still ongoing in Belgium and in Germany. In the Netherlands, companies have disappeared and a very long term has passed, while in those countries extraction is still ongoing. That means that if you have a damage there now in an area where winning is won, you can directly appeal to that company. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u59	Then we'll talk a little bit along each other. The point is that, from the moment that extraction has ceased in the German border area with the Netherlands, even if that operator is no longer in sight, the German State has an eternal duty to compensate for any damage that may still occur. In that sense, a limitation period is not relevant, because you can always call on the State in case you still get damage. That's the point. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u60	However, that is not the conclusion from the investigation. I've sent the investigation report to the Chamber by now. If the Chamber wishes to hold a written round of questions on this because the conclusions are not clear or are contrary to what I would have said earlier, then I am very happy to respond to them. Let's also take a closer look at what's going on in Limburg. I take the problem in Limburg seriously. I have had the cases that have been presented to me and where I have gone to look at them examined. Turns out it doesn't come from mining. Anyway, I think there is indeed a problem in Limburg. That is why I have had two things done: the legal investigation, on which I would like to continue the round of questions with the Chamber, and a major investigation to see what the situation is like, what is to be expected, how it should be assessed and what the policy should look like. That big investigation is under way. There is a very large, expert foreign investigative body involved. At the end of this year we have the results. I think it would be very useful, at the end of the year, on the basis of that legal investigation and on the basis of that technical research, to look at the whole thing and draw conclusions from it. I'd love to be willing to do that. Mrs Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about a one-stop shop for mining damage. I know that this is important for both Mrs Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber. It's as important to me as it is to them. Nor do I like people who, as they say, have asked for nothing and are confronted with a problem being sent from the cabinet to the wall. We caught that in Groningen by letting the National Coordinator Groningen be the hatch there. That's where anyone can go who thinks it's not going well in another way. The National Coordinator can then, in turn, ensure that the people are put in the right place and that their cause gets the attention of the person responsible. So we need the same thing nationwide. Nationally, we have the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. That's where there's expertise. Sometimes we still have separate units in provinces, for example in Friesland the Committee on Soil Reduction Natural Gas Extraction Fryslân. There's expertise there, too. Sometimes people have to come into contact with a waterboard, sometimes they have to come into contact with such a technical committee or with another body. I have made the decision to set up a section at the Rijksdienst voor Onderneming Nederland. This must work before the end of this year. It has a phone and a website that are accessible to everyone. Then people there can also contact a team of people behind that phone number. That team listens to what people come up with, brings those people to the right place, where they get the attention they deserve, and then follows them. So it's not like that: I told you to go there and there and that's it. No, it also needs to be followed to see if it leads to a good outcome. Of course, everyone will never be satisfied, but anyone who has such a problem must know where to go and get the attention he deserves. That's what we're gonna organize with this one window. That was the part about the damage. I now come to the reversal of the burden of proof. I have already indicated that I want to reduce the burden of proof as little as possible. Actually, it's my honor to have people go to court. That's why the Center for Safe Living, which supplies the first damage expert, needs to do well. I think that's the most important thing. If that doesn't go well, a second has to do it right. In this respect, there are a number of things that are going on which I must take a good look at whether things are going as we all mean. In any case, the design is good: if you do not agree with the first as a damage detector, you still have the possibility to go to a second without having to make a fee. Then you still can't agree with it. Normally, you'd go to court. As I said last time, no one has yet gone to court. That was not the case at all. I also felt that I had covered it quite well with the two amenities I had. We said then: let us try to prevent people from going to court, with all the fuss around it, by solving it very close to the people on the ground. Five arbitrators have now been appointed, who have now started their work. In my view, this is a very good way of ensuring that people do not have to go to court and that reversal of the burden of proof is not addressed. The Chamber has determined that reversal of the burden of proof. The Council of State has expressed its views on this and said that, if there are a large number of cases of damage, it can be assumed that mining is the cause of this and that it applies to all similar cases, where the burden of proof has to be reversed. A large number of cases occur in Groningen. This does not apply to the whole of Groningen; there are also parts of Groningen where there are no numerous cases. I must now make sure that the Court's ruling on the reversal of the burden of proof and the ruling of the Council of State is different from the system, but in situations of "a large number of cases" it is justifiable and you could do it properly. I am trying to put this into practice by establishing an area of impact. I am going to establish the area of impact in such a way that everything that should reasonably be covered will actually be covered. I simply intend to do justice to Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand's motion, taking into account the opinion of the Council of State. I'm just gonna try and fill that out in a proper way. So I will determine that area of impact as best I can. I will always do that on the basis of the latest insights. If it's necessary to change it, so will I. I do that in the case of ministerial arrangements, because I want to do so as soon as possible. However, I do not feel the slightest need to keep the Chamber from doing so. I am therefore prepared to say the first thing before the adoption of the ministerial regulation and to inform the Chamber of what I intend to do. Then I can talk to the Chamber about this and the Chamber can have an opinion on it. In this way, I believe that I am right in what Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand, who had the support of a majority in the Chamber, were trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u61	In my turn, I have little desire to correct the Minister, who is far above us as MPs in terms of file knowledge. We are talking about an amendment, not a motion. That is of course important, because it concerns the co-legislative function of the Party for Animals and the Party of Labour. That's what the Chamber attaches to. Now I come to the amendment itself and the way in which it has been completed. We talked about wanting to do it for the whole of the Netherlands. The Council of State has said that it is better to limit it a little, because such a shift of suspicion of evidence requires a restriction. The people in Groningen say: we know these restrictions from The Hague, because then they come with a contour card and it applies to one side of the street and not to the other side of the street. In addition, they say: then we have to show that it is compact and not a bottom descent and then we have to go to the waterboards. People are very concerned that they will still have an arrangement that is not really helpful to them. Does the Minister understand that? Does the Minister also understand the wish of the Chamber to establish it slightly wider than what has been defined so far by "effect area"? Did the Minister also hear that Dick Tommel, the president of the Tcbb, declared in the Chamber that they were a very small group of people, especially around Loppersum?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u62	I thank Mr Vos for his correction. As he said, it was an amendment and not a motion. I have the same intention as the Chamber. I am not going to discuss whether or not to reverse the burden of proof. The Chamber has given its opinion on this matter, and so it will be. I asked the Council of State for information. The Council of State says you're deviating from the normal legal system. Whoever's arguing has to prove it. But here you do it differently. Then you have to have a story to back that up and that may be that there are a large number of cases. So that's the story I'm using. I'll fill that in as best I can. I have absolutely no intention of limiting it to Loppersum. I also have no intention of staying cramped in contours. I am simply concerned that the reversal of the burden of proof should apply where there is a large number of damage. I just want to do this right in a ministerial arrangement. How I intend to do that, I will make it clear in advance to the Chamber. I'm gonna fill it out as best I can. The Chamber has already made a ruling on this subject once in the case of amendment. I have now given my opinion on this. I will see what the Chamber is still coming up with in this debate. Perhaps there will be another amendment or a motion. I will wait and I will be happy to respond to that. I do not intend to approach and treat the people of Groningen differently on this point than Mr Vos and Mrs Ouwehand intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u63	What we are trying to do, the Minister and the Chamber, is to bring all the damage caused by the extraction of gas from the Groningen field under consideration. Wouldn't that be the most appropriate wording for an amendment that no longer relies on a ministerial arrangement, but simply says: that's what this is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u64	I made the bill the way I think it's best. I am, as I have just done, fulfilling the wishes of the Chamber expressed in the amendment at the time. I'll see what the Chamber might come up with and I'll be happy to respond to that. I think that the reversal of the burden of proof is one of the things that we have agreed to. This must now be properly implemented. I do not want to be restricted by a contour, a municipal border or a provincial border. Where there is a lot of damage, I want the reversal of the burden of proof to apply. Mr Vos has indicated that he will table an amendment. In the wordings he chose, I saw no contradiction with what I intended. I therefore await the precise wording of the amendment, but I hope that this will lead to unanimity between the proposers and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u65	There's a lot of disagreement about the contour map. I remember a discussion that we had last week or the week before about damage outside the outline card that is not even included. No one's going there because there's gonna be another investigation. If we leave the Mining Act as it is now and reduce the reversal of the burden of proof again, I am afraid we will have a lot of discussion again. Does the Minister agree with me? Then why doesn't the minister just choose the entire province of Groningen? Surely the Minister agrees with me that there have been damage outside that contour card?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u66	I have no intention of explaining the contour map to the impact area. I am now doing a bit of the discussion that we have had recently on this subject. The contour map looks like this. We have looked at where earthquakes have occurred and in what areas those earthquakes have had an effect. The total area is sign-in on a map. Then there is another 2 kilometers around and that is the contour. It was really meant to actually reflect what happened in Groningen. Now there are claims for damage outside that area as well. We had Arcadis take a look at that. Arcadis said there's no connection to the gas extraction. Now let's validate Arcadis's research. There is an expert from the University of Delft involved, a very expert person in this field. If that validation is there, the National Coordinator will have an opinion on it, then I will have an opinion on it and then we will see what we will do with it. The only damage that has not yet led to a recovery of damage is the damage in the area covered by the investigation I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u67	The reversal of the burden of proof is important when it is disputed whether there is earthquake damage. If the Minister intends to reduce the area of impact compared to the province of Groningen, we may have a counterproductive effect. No one will dispute that damage in Loppersum is earthquake damage in most cases. There's right discussion about damages a little bit more on the edges of the area. The purpose of the reversal of the burden of proof is precisely to help the people who are on the edge of the area, but who do live in Groningen, in their discussions on whether or not it is earthquake damage. So I really don't understand why the minister doesn't just take the entire province of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u68	I understand Mrs. Klever. Nor is it my intention to make that area smaller than the province of Groningen. My intention is to do justice to the whole area where that effect occurs, according to the wording of the Council of State. Mr Vos has announced an amendment. He also mentioned "everywhere." Let me see how he lays that down in the amendment. It seems to me that I can get out of my way with that. It's not my intention to stay away from where it would really be useful. It is not my intention to stay specifically within the contours or specifically within the provincial border. I simply want to do justice to the problem and I want to translate the judgment of the Council of State on this issue into the people of Groningen in a correct and correct way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u69	I fully agree with the Minister that the reversal of the burden of proof should actually be the final piece after all the other things that have been done and which hopefully produce a lot, but it is an important final piece. I think the discussion with the Minister is about how to define what belongs to the area of impact. Then it is the people who are entitled to this treatment. On the basis of what effects does the Minister intend to define his area of impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u70	It's about finding out where there are large numbers of earthquakes in that area. That is not in the far northwest tip of Groningen and it does not necessarily stop at the southern border of Groningen. I'm not sure what's going on. I want that to be objectively established. There are still calculations to be made and models to be looked at. I'll do it as best I can. My proposal is to do so with a ministerial arrangement which I can always adapt quickly to the changing situation. I want to do justice to the involvement of the Chamber by sharing it with the Chamber in advance, so that we can have a debate on it. I understand from Mr Vos that he is considering tabling an amendment on that point. That would be a different system. However, the wording he has chosen does not affect me. So I'm just waiting to see what exactly he comes up with and I think it's possible that we can agree on that. The Chamber has taken an initiative. It was not my initiative to reverse the burden of proof. I have asked for advice from the Council of State on this, which is formally called 'information'. I think it is important to do the right thing. I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u71	Fortunately, I am also involved in these discussions, because I think we are all looking for the wording that gives the most legal certainty, so that we do not create a new trial, namely whether or not someone is in the area of impact. I found the Minister's approach that he looks at the effect and not at the province, very elegant. The question then is how we define the area of impact, otherwise you will have another discussion about it and we haven't made much progress. I understand the Minister is still coming to the Chamber. I look forward to further discussion with him on this. I think we all want the same thing. The question now is how we define this properly, so that people have legal certainty and know what they can rely on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u72	Sure, that's the question. That's how I wanted to do it and I still want to do it. Last time, the Chamber adopted an amendment. Now Mr Vos announces a new amendment. That also has meaning for the people in Groningen, so I listen carefully to the views of the Chamber. I will take a good look at the amendment and respond to it. But even if we were to choose a different path, I would have chosen the path I have chosen to do justice to the Chamber speech and the information I have received from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u73	My group is also looking for a way of defining the area of impact in a way that is legally sustainable. At the same time, I can already see from the reactions that come to me that people from the country, outside Groningen, feel that this might create a bit of legal inequality. Everyone understands that the situation in Groningen is unique because of the large amount of earthquakes, but there are also locations in Drenthe, Friesland and possibly Woerden where gas extraction is involved. It is true that there is not a great deal of tremors there, but it is also true that there are similar difficult legal procedures. What do we tell these people? Because I understand their feelings very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u74	We could say to the people in the Netherlands that we have arranged that you have to prove damage yourself if you say you have it. In the field in Groningen, once the largest field in the world and still in size among the five largest in the world, there is such a problem because of a large number of cases that the Council of State says that the rule of law "who submits, proves" can be waived. At the same time, we have a report from TNO that says that the risks in the small fields are incomparable with those in Groningen. In Groningen there is a problem that we are looking for and think we have found a solution for. It is therefore not appropriate to apply this solution against the general rule of law throughout the country. I do not think that this will help to ensure legal certainty in our country. I also think that we can be pleased that once again, as far as there is, the problem of the other fields in the Netherlands is incomparable to the problem of Groningen, and that we can therefore concentrate on solving the problem of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr Bosman asked whether I agree that damage outside the area of impact, which he could also say "outside the area of contour', caused by mining activities, should be treated seriously and, if it turns out to have been caused by that mining activity, should be compensated. Yeah, I think so. It is of course true that the system is stalled when everyone in the Netherlands with a crack in his house says that it is because of the natural gas extraction in Groningen and asks for an valuation to be made. We can put everything in the soup; this too. We have to deal with it in a sensible way. That's what the people in Groningen want. Those who have suffered damage in that area think that it was caused by the mining activities and report that damage, must be given serious response. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether there should be an evaluation period for the reversal of the burden of proof. She was supported by Mr Bosman. I think we should. I hope that very few cases will end up in court. In addition to what we have already done, the arbitrators really need to capture those matters. The method with arbitrators is very nice, because the NAM has to pay if the NAM is unsuccessful and the resident can also go to court if he is unsuccessful. Of course, you may wonder how strong that case will be with which you go to court, because two experts and an arbitrator have already looked at it. I am trying to avoid this situation as much as possible, but if there has been enough of those situations to make a proper evaluation, we must do so. A period of five years seems to me to be a reasonable estimate of this, but if my successor or successor considers that, after a period of three years, there have already been sufficient court cases for an evaluation, then he or she or the Chamber may decide to do that earlier. Let us just say: in five years' time or as much sooner as reasonably possible. I come to the reversal of the burden of proof for Limburg. At the moment I cannot do that, because there are not many cases there. I have already said that in two of the three specific cases I have looked at it had a different cause. We're looking into it. There is absolutely something going on there because of all the mining operations, and that is why we have started these two major investigations, a legal and a technical investigation. If we have been able to get a good picture of it through these investigations, then we need to talk to the Chamber about it. I think it should be possible to discuss it in the Chamber before the end of the year. I will be very committed to this, because we cannot continue to push it forward. We've been talking about this for a long time, and I don't like that very much, because I prefer to draw conclusions. However, for these conclusions, I do need those investigations. Madam President, this was the part of reversing the burden of proof. I now turn to the questions about the Wadden area. Let us first look at the current situation in the Wadden region. In the Wadden Sea, no drilling is allowed at all. There should be no drilling rigs at all, neither for detection nor for extraction. New drillings in the Wadden Sea, in whatever form, must not be allowed. The Wadden Sea is a world heritage. What is not world heritage is the Wadden Islands. At the time, it was expressly chosen not to include the islands in that world heritage. There is also a Natura 2000 site, namely the Wadden Sea itself and a strip for the Wadden Islands, the North Sea coast. I think we should be careful not to decide on a permit on a case-by-case basis, as we do now. That would also be contrary to the law. We have passed the law and we ourselves are obliged to follow it. I'm not saying I can't do otherwise, because it's in the law. I think it is very good that it is in the law. I'm implementing that law with conviction, and I have to. The debate on the Wadden Islands was held here. I understand that a number of amendments and motions will be tabled on this subject. I will deal with these amendments and motions later. I think it is necessary to agree a new line with each other and then to keep us on that line. If we have a strong opinion on what may or may not be allowed on the Wadden Islands and on what may be right off the coast of those Wadden Islands, then it will have to be laid down in rules, because that is the only way to give legal certainty to everyone involved. I hope that will be the outcome of this discussion. There are different views about Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling. On Ameland there is a drilling plant and there are also two there off the coast, but on Ameland there is no great unrest. For Schiermonnikoog I have been issued an APB, but this is about temporary detection, off-season. If anything were to be found there, it would also be conceivable to mention just one thing: it would be granted such a permit that there would be no installation there but that a connection would be made from the sea floor to an existing installation, so that nothing would change visually in the area at all. All these things are conceivable under the rules that we now have. What the rules will be like later, we will see. I shall come back to that later on in the discussion of the amendments. At the end of this debate we will see what the playing field looks like. I will then do my best to get legal provisions out of it so that both the Chamber and I can agree and that the companies and the people involved can derive legal certainty from it. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why I did not ask the residents of Terschelling for advice. I hope that I have made this clear with the example I gave to Schiermonnikoog, which also applies to Terschelling. On the Wadden Sea, Mr Wassenberg said, I believe, not only should you not drill in the Wadden Sea but also not under the Wadden Sea. The latter would be very bad, too, he said. For drilling under the Wadden Sea we have the hand-to-the-crane principle. That's what this means. It's drilled from the shore and gas is taken out. It shall be monitored whether this leads to a decrease in the seabed. That does not appear to be the case, and the explanation makes perfect sense. There are sand movements between the North Sea above the Wadden Islands and the Wadden Sea. If there is any decline in the seabed, these sand movements will complement it with sand. So the final situation is the same. So far, there have been no adverse effects. If there are, it is possible to respond via the hand-to-the-crane principle. Mrs Van Tongeren came back to the question of diesel oil in the Wadden Sea following the incident in Overijssel. This is perhaps the point I should be discussing right now. Mrs Van Tongeren was right to say that you have cavernes in the north. If there is water in those cavernes, you get a interaction between that water and the ceiling of the caverna, which further undermines that caverna. To prevent that, there's a very thin layer of diesel over that water, so you don't get that interaction. On this point, State surveillance of the Mines says that this is the best way to deal with it. That's why I'm allowing this. The same thing happens in Twente. Now, however, there is an old caverne, on which there was also a thin layer of diesel oil. This was put in about 20, 25 years ago with a single tube. There has been a leak in that area for about three years, and it has now come to light. This is now being dealt with. This cannot be compared to the leakage that has occurred in Germany. In Germany it was not a thin layer of diesel oil over water. Cavernes were filled with diesel oil. It was strategic storage. In the Netherlands we also have strategic storage, but we do not do so via a single tube but through a double tube. In between these two tubes we can control the situation. If something goes wrong with the first tube, the oil does not enter the environment, because the second tube is still around it. Moreover, we immediately know that something is wrong and can be dealt with immediately. So there really is another situation. Exactly what happened in the 1980s in the old caverne in Twente is currently being investigated. At some point AkzoNobel, who is responsible for this, discovered that. Then they knew something was wrong, but not exactly true. That is what we have been trying to find out, and then we have come up with a report. State surveillance, which is now following this whole process, also examines whether AkzoNobel has acted properly in relation to his obligation to report incidents. Did they rightly wait for that to happen? Didn't they wait too long? That sort of thing gets picked out. I will then respond to that advice from State surveillance of the Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u77	Some of the answers reassure me, namely that we are looking at whether AkzoNobel reported too late or not. However, we are talking about 12,000 litres of diesel. It has been said reassuringly that it is a thin layer, but in all those different caverns together there is quite a bit of diesel oil. If that is the case with all these salt extractions, in the Wadden Sea it is really thousands of litres of diesel oil that we do not want in it. So the Minister is actually saying that in future only a double-tube construction will be used and that it is absolutely fail proof. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes. I have made a difference between caverns with water and a thin layer of diesel oil to prevent further damage to the ceiling and caverns that are completely filled with diesel oil for strategic storage. The latter had a single tube in Germany and a double tube in the Netherlands. That's a controlled process. That's what I've been trying to convey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u79	Is there now an attempt to get a double tube for all cavernes, both in the Wadden Sea and AkzoNobel, because they are "leakproof"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u80	I don't know. I have to come back to that. I can say that according to State surveillance on the Mines, there is no better methodology to counter the undesirable interaction between the water and the top of the caver than to cover the water with a layer of diesel oil. There is no better system for that. Mrs Van Tongeren asks whether the diesel oil will be brought in, if that is still the case, with a double tube or with a single tube. I don't have the answer to that. I'll have to check that out, and I'll get back to you on that. Mrs Van Veldhoven said that mining installations should not be allowed in any Natura 2000 area. I think that the Natura 2000 rules already go a long way. We say that there can only be activities there after careful assessment of the nature values involved and only if those mining activities are compatible with them. The necessary investigations must then be carried out to get it all sharp. As Mr Bosman said, they are protected, but that does not mean that nothing must be done. It is being considered whether this can be done in a responsible way. The system we have for the Natura 2000 sites works and we can maintain it. In the north of the country we have the Wadden Sea, which we have made world heritage, and the Wadden Islands, which the Chamber has views on. Above you have a Natura 2000 zone, right along the coast: the North Sea coastal zone. I am prepared to present that whole now and to discuss it. I think that is reasonable, but I do not think it is reasonable to exclude all Natura 2000 sites throughout the Netherlands entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u81	This minister is always about legal certainty and the predictability of the policy. I am curious on the basis of what arguments he thinks you should distinguish between UNESCO's World Heritage Site and a Natura 2000 site such as the Wadden Sea and, for example, the Veluwe. What is the essential distinction that makes the Minister say that he thinks it is a good idea to place installations outside the area, clear, predictable and legally certain, in the north of the country, but not on the Veluwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u82	I like the Veluwe, I like the Green Heart and I like Zeeland, just like the Wadden Sea. I like the Groningen countryside and I like Friesland. I also like smaller forest areas and the Biesbosch, just like Brabant and Limburg. Once you start to protect everything you like, you will find the whole of the Netherlands beautiful. I really like that, too. However, we have different regimes. We have a world heritage regime and we have a Natura 2000 regime. In the Natura 2000 regime, we have established that this is such a special area, that you can only do something there if it meets those and those conditions and if it does not. We have all described this neatly, and I think we should just stick to it. We must not say now that mining activities must never take place on top of that. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u83	That's not an answer to my question. I asked what the Minister's argument is to distinguish between one Natura 2000 site/UNESCO world heritage and another. That distinction makes the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u84	I gave the best possible answer to Mrs Van Veldhoven's question. Now I can say that with regard to the Wadden Sea, it is a combination of World Heritage Sites, the Wadden Islands have been kept out of it and the Natura 2000 coastal zone above it. This has led to a situation in which I try to apply the law, but the Chamber makes statements about it by way of motion. It is necessary that we try to come together. In view of the special situation that exists there, it seems to me justified why I am doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u85	There are also other areas with a combination of UNESCO world heritage with adjacent or almost adjacent Natura 2000 sites. I am not concerned that I want to make it impossible to obtain the gas that might be underneath it. It would also be a misunderstanding in the discussion with Mr Vos, because if you wanted to do that around the Wadden Sea, you could achieve that from another location. But what is against drawing a clear, predictable line in the Netherlands and not placing new installations there now, whether it is a Natura 2000 site or UNESCO world heritage? The Minister is right to stress that these are very special areas. That's the only difference. Why doesn't the Minister want to draw a line in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u86	We have adopted the rules of the world heritage and those of Natura 2000 very carefully. There has been a lot of talk about it and there has been a lot of discussion about which areas exactly we should identify and which not and what exactly should and should not be there. We've all recorded that. Now we are talking about mining and suddenly we are saying that mining will come up against what is already laid down in the rules as something that is not allowed in any situation. In my opinion, that is not reasonable. We must abide by what we have agreed on. However, in my opinion, there are arguments for bringing the Wadden Sea under one regime by that combination of no protection of world heritage and Natura 2000, also because it appears that the Court is inclined to rule on licence applications by way of a motion. This leads to a difficult manageable situation. I'm trying to solve that by doing what I just said about the Wadden Sea. Then I will try to align with the Chamber on this point. Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to extend that one line to all Natura 2000 sites across the country, but I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u87	Last one!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President, because I have not intervened very much and this is really an important point for me. I am concerned about the consistency of what we are doing. Like the Minister, I do not want the Chamber to make an ad hoc ruling on every application for a permit. That is not good for legal certainty. How can we judge how, for example, Heerhugowaard, Woerden or all kinds of places should be weighed against each other? What helps are rules that make it predictable for all companies. Now the Minister makes an exception for the Wadden region. I am very pleased to say that, let me stress this, but the consistency in the Minister's speech is really missing for once when he says that there is such a special combination that he wants to settle for it, but not for all the other areas. If there is an application for authorisation for a drilling in a Natura 2000 site, we are standing here again in the Chamber to discuss it. That is precisely what the Minister is trying to prevent and what I would like to prevent. It does not even have to be at the expense of the possibility of extracting minerals. Why doesn't the Minister want to be consistent here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u89	If I were only to focus on the application of the rules digitally and wouldn't want to weigh anything else, I wouldn't be fit for this job and I wouldn't last as long as I've held out. I am also dealing with a political reality. I must also always take a critical look at whether we have been sufficiently consistent in our regulations with regard to concrete situations. I note that for the Wadden region, repeated statements by the Court give rise to a tendency for decisions not to be taken under the rules laid down by law, but to be made by way of a motion for a resolution. The Wadden Sea, the Wadden Islands and the coastal strip north of the Wadden Islands I find a coherent area. It would be nice if we could bring the various regimes that sit on them under one regime and also give due consideration to the fact that there exists in the Chamber on this point. I am trying to do that, but I do not want to create another problem by solving that problem, namely that there should never again be a mining activity in all Natura 2000 sites throughout the country, apart from everything we have agreed on. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u91	Then I go to the letter of amendment, the CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) and the security of supply. First I get to the CCS. CCS is the specialist term, jargon, for storing CO in the soil. The ambitions we have agreed internationally to limit the increase in the average temperature on earth to 2°C and actually to 1.5°C can only be met if progress is achieved and results are achieved across a very broad front, with all the possibilities involved. I think energy saving is very important. I think it's very important that you use residual heat. I think it is very important that you switch to renewable energy. If you use fossil energy, I think it's very important that you use the cleanest form possible, namely gas. But I also think it is important that we consider whether we can capture and store CO, which is still being blown into the air. I am thinking of the CO released from power plants, particularly coal plants, but also of the CO released from industry. There are industries in the Netherlands that emit a lot of CO into the air. To do this in a modern way, models have been developed. Laboratory settings have been made, but there are no large-scale testing experiences. There has been experience in Norway, but that is of a different order. There are experiences in Canada. They're also of a different order. Here in Europe, where we are dealing with a lot of coal plants and industries that emit a lot of CO, we would like to see whether we can set up the laboratory as a demonstration project of industrial size. Europe has tried to do that. A number of projects have been in the picture. The only project left is the ROAD project in Rotterdam. That's because of me, too, because I'm holding on to that. I think that's important. I am constantly working to see if I can find solutions if problems arise in realising that project. I have discussed this with my German, Polish, Norwegian and French colleagues. I have discussed this with several Commissioners in Brussels, with industry in the Netherlands and with local directors. I am really doing my best to get that ROAD project, that CCS project realized in the port of Rotterdam. If that succeeds, we can try to follow up on this by bringing more CO with pipelines to Rotterdam and processing it further, not only from one or a few coal plants but also from industry and perhaps also from the German Ruhr area. Then we can all go back to that. This can contribute to preventing global warming. That CCS project is a difficult project. That's gonna cost a lot of money. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked me to put what you can achieve there precisely at the cost. We can save 2.7 billion kilos, 2.7 million tonnes of CO if we do that there, if we do that project with the first field that is in sight, close and partially still in use. If you take away the costs, it will not remain, but if you see it as a demonstration project that can be followed up for the whole of Europe in the future and that can also make an important contribution to solving the CO2 problem, then it is worth it. In this way, I am now trying to reach a decision, preferably this summer and otherwise in the third quarter. It's hard, but I'm just trying to do it because I'm very motivated. We had a field a bit further on the sea, for which you had to build longer tubes and that would make the project even more expensive, but now we have also found a field closer, where you have to make less high costs. In that case we can make a start, and then use that other field again. But that field close by is still partially in use. With the letter of amendment, we can ensure that that CO goes into it, while that field is in use. There will then be a little more gas coming out of that field, but the figure should be 0.01 to 0.35 million tonnes. In this order of magnitude there is an extra amount, while between 2.3 and 2.7 billion tonnes of CO go into it. So there's a lot more going on than the bit that comes out extra. We still have to see whether what we are doing can be technically and safely, and there are a lot of things that need to be explored further, but with this amendment to the Mining Act, I am making it possible for that to happen. So it is necessary to be able to use this field and this is not done to extract as much gas as possible, the gas just has to come out in order to put that CO optimally into it. The fact that some extra gas comes out is not a big deal either, because we can really use that. Then we don't have to buy it in Norway to meet Mr. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u92	My group's concern lies in the following. If you only put CO in an empty gas field and you close it, you'll probably have a better risk management than if you use another gas field that leaves you open because you take out the gas. My group is concerned that there is more risk of that CO escaping. We also support the development of a CCS demonstration project because we need it in all scenarios. However, demonstration projects must also be carried out safely, which is why I am concerned about such an open gas field. How does the Minister support security in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u93	I cannot support this to Mrs Van Veldhoven's satisfaction. That is just a point, so that needs to be further developed specifically in view of that situation. It is necessary to consider whether measures are needed and, if so, what measures, and whether those measures still leave risks open. So that's all gonna be sorted out. I'm just not getting started if it's irresponsible, but I'm not in the mood for this project to fail. If it can't, it can't, but I've decided to do my very best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u94	I am pleased with the statement: if it can't be done, it can't be done. I would like to hear from the Minister what possibilities he sees in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u95	The Animal Party is not in favour of the capture and storage of CO, as I said in the first term. That is where we differ and we do not need to talk about it now, but I also asked questions about the cost of the project. The Minister says it's expensive. I understand, because it's experimental. I also understand that it is expensive, but I have obtained the information that industry pays only 20% of the costs, and that most of the costs are paid by the Dutch government and by the European Commission. Can the Minister provide any insight into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u96	I can confirm that. I also have somewhere between the pile of paper I have here the exact specification. As soon as I have found it, I will give it to you, but Mr Wassenberg is right: most of the costs are borne by the European and Dutch authorities. That is true, but I have one comment to make. I understand that Mr Wassenberg doesn't want to save it, but let's both face the fact that we'll blow it straight into the air. Everything I don't store just goes up. Then Mr Wassenberg can say that he does not want to, but he will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u97	We have just said that this is an experimental technique and I have great doubts as to whether this will ever make any sense. I think preventing it from blowing up is the real solution. But does the Minister not agree with me that it would be fair for business to contribute a little more to the costs? That 20% is a very low percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u98	I am not taking over exactly that 20%, but it is true that by far most of the costs are borne by the Dutch and European authorities. This is also because it is a demonstration project that Europe and the Dutch government consider necessary. It is not real to say to industry that it has to pay for it, because then it does not come off the ground. With the large sums I've managed to get away from various sides, I'm already having trouble getting it done. My employees who are much better at home in the papers, help me and give me the overview. The company ENGIE pays 50 million, the company Uniper pays 50 million, the Netherlands pays 150 million and the European Commission pays 180 million. It also involves contributions in the order of 5-15 million from Germany, Norway, a fund structure from the Netherlands and a fund structure from the European Commission. Those are the amounts taken together. This leads to a total amount of about 470 to 480 million. The costs we have to incur are even higher than the cover; so there is a gap. So it is a challenge both technically and financially. But again, every million tons that we don't store here just goes into the air. The power stations are going crazy: we are not stopping Tata and we are not stopping Yara in Zeeland. If we don't do it, it's just gonna blow up. What we can pick up, we have to catch. If we can learn from that how to absorb much more later, it would not be justified not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u99	The Minister states that a field closer to the coast has been searched. The fact that costs are higher has to do with the fact that it is a demonstration project. Hasn't it been considered asking the companies for higher contributions? Is it still an option to place it in proportion to that farther away field, or is that even impossible? Is this it, or we're not gonna do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u100	For the companies it is about the combination with what they can and what has been agreed with them at an earlier stage. We must also realise that it is companies that are having a very difficult time. These energy companies have lost 70, 80, 90% of their value and are loss-making while they have built new power plants. Here in the Chamber there is already a discussion about closing those power stations again. So these companies are having a hard time. What could reasonably be taken out of these companies for this project has been removed. Nevertheless, I still have a hole in cover. Perhaps I should go to all those involved to ask them to contribute to this. I cannot guarantee that the whole project will succeed, but I think it is very worthwhile to try. Then I come to the letter of amendment to the law on security of supply. I have already said what is necessary about security of supply: it is a good thing to include this in the law. That's just part of the game. I started my first term by pointing out that at the moment 94% of fossil energy is still needed in the Netherlands to make our society run. I have to take that into account. GTS also said you need at least 24 billion cubs from Groningen. SodM has told you to sit steady on that level. The security of supply is therefore indeed involved. It is a good thing to include this in Article 36, because then you can make it formal in the decision-making process. Then you can possibly attach conditions to a permit that are related to the security of supply. I think we'll do it in a transparent way. That is why I propose to the Chamber that this should still be part of the legislation to be finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u101	I have a technical question. How does the Minister see the relationship between that element of security of supply and the grounds on which he can refuse authorisation? Health, safety and environment are added as grounds on which you can refuse a permit. That is what the Minister indicated in the letter of amendment. In addition, the Minister may grant an authorisation on the basis of the security of supply. Is that what overruls the grounds for rejection? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u102	I can't pass a measuring bar like that. There are a number of interests that you need to take into account. If it could all be digital, you wouldn't need Mrs. Van Veldhoven and me. Then you put it in a computer and the outcome comes out. I have to take into account safety and the importance of reducing damage. I also need to be aware of the security of supply. I have never used it for this whole cabinet period in my trade-offs, but I must also bear in mind what happens to the treasury. That's part of it. As far as I am concerned, the order is clear: safety, harm reduction, security of supply. I try to translate that as best I can into considerations and in setting conditions. So: you could do something, but then you have to make that condition. Or: you could do something more, but then you also have to set some more conditions. Making that assessment is our job. I have to answer for that. That can then be verified by those who end up in the Council of State by means of an appeal and appeal and by the national parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u103	The law is never digital. We try to give judges and people who are supposed to know the law some indication of what we mean by it. So the question is: if there are different weighting grounds, how much does the security of supply weigh for the Minister? When I spoke about this, I said that I could imagine something in some kind of hardness clause. If the need is real, the Minister must be able to act on it. But that is different from that with every permit, which always contributes to the security of supply, it is said: since it contributes to the security of supply, I use the power I have under the law. So I'd like to know what the Minister wants. How does he intend to use the security of supply in the assessment he is going to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u104	I've already made that assessment. First of all, I am concerned about safety. Secondly, I am concerned with reducing the damage, because damage is in itself incriminating for people. It's not just physical damage, it's also a burden on people's lives. So I always take both things into account and weigh them down; they are also on paper. But, of course, I also take into account the security of supply. I told you, I can't leave the country in the cold in winter. So I have to take that into account. That's why I asked GTS what it needs minimally. I asked SodM how, based on the actual situation, we can ensure that the situation is as safe as possible. That's sitting at the minimum, and then as stable as possible. In fact, therefore, the security of supply is already reflected in that assessment. I think it is nice to name it in the law, so that you can also make conditions on that basis. So it is perfecting and making a balancing process more transparent. Mrs Van Veldhoven says: make a kind of hardness clause for security of supply. I think it would be better just to face the fact that the importance of Dutch society as a whole to be able to go crazy is also a real interest. That's an interest we're welcome to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u105	Finally, Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u106	The minister shouldn't make a caricature of it. Of course there is the importance of security of supply. We don't want to leave anyone in the cold. That's the bottomline for all of us. The Minister says, however, that in the case of gas extraction authorisation in Woerden, there is a relationship with the production of 24 billion m from the Groningen field. Of course, that's not true. The assessment of whether or not you grant a licence for the gas extraction in Woerden on the basis of the security of supply criterion has nothing to do with SodM's advice to produce flat from the Groningenveld. That is why my question is: does the Minister have the issue of security of supply, which is a justified point, as a kind of closure, which I have therefore called a 'hardness clause', or is it simply a ground on which he can always say 'it contributes to the security of supply and so I grant the licence'? Then you open the crane in another way very wide again. It is important for the treatment of this law to get an idea of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u107	I didn't want to make a caricature out of it. I do think that Mrs Van Veldhoven is quite right to point this out. We do not have the opportunity to stop the extraction of the Groningen gas and then to get that 'Groningen gas' from Russia. The gas from Russia is just another gas. We can't make it out of Norway either, because that's another gas too. A very small part of the gas from our small fields is of the quality of the Groninger gas and for another part it is highly caloric gas, similar to the gas from Norway and Russia and therefore replaceable. The issue of security of supply therefore plays a very different role in Groningen than in Woerden. Mrs Van Veldhoven is absolutely right about that. The balance in Woerden will therefore be made very different from that in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u108	I too have a question about security of supply. The Minister is responsible in general for ensuring that there is sufficient electricity, oil and gas in the Netherlands. In other laws under which permits are issued, is the security of supply not specifically mentioned as a land? That is the ultimate responsibility of the Minister at a higher level in the field of energy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u109	Under the Nature Protection Act, you look at nature conservation. Under the Environment Act, you look at what's going on in the area. Under the Mining Act, you look at the safety and the damage. I think you should also look at the security of supply. That's what the Mining Act is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u110	I'm gonna go back to security of supply. If next year there is a very cold winter, where there is a gas shortage and hospitals may have to take out their central heating boilers, then we are talking about security of supply as the Minister describes it. Doesn't he have other means to push something through? For example, if you authorize a BOLO, you won't have that gas for five or ten years at the earliest. That solves the problem of hospitals in danger of falling into the cold, doesn't it, for the coming winter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u111	The security of supply with regard to Woerden, Terschelling and mention all the other places but in other places, it's dozens of places, hundreds of places where we get gas in the Netherlands in the North Sea and on the mainland, also has a general interest. Because if you depend on Norway, Russia, Qatar, Iran, Venezuela for your gas supply and mention just a few countries where gas comes from, you are dependent. If you can get it out of your own country, you're not dependent. Then we also have security of supply in war and crisis conditions and in the event of major natural disasters in parts of the world, because we can use our own gas. The point of security of supply plays a role in all mining operations in the background. I think it's very good to name that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u112	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u113	It is still unclear to me whether we are talking about hospitals in the cold next year or about a general policy in the long term. The Minister is, of course, always looking at how we can make things more sustainable and how much less gas we can get. If I am correct, contracts will still be concluded for up to five years to supply gas to foreign countries. If the Minister seriously wants to allow a drilling at Woerden to guarantee the security of supply of the Netherlands in five to ten years' time, would it not be wiser not to conclude any more contracts to reduce the security of supply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u114	The fact that the Netherlands should not be in the cold is directly linked to Groningen. For heating the houses and a lot of other activities we depend on Groningen. The point of the cold only plays for Groningen and not for most small fields, because that gas is replaceable. The other point is that, if you can bring it up responsibly in your own country, you are not dependent on other countries. If those other countries no longer want or can at some point, you have a big problem in the Netherlands. If you can use your own gas, you don't have that problem. So the general point of security of supply applies to the small fields. Mrs Van Tongeren says in a subtitle that we sell gas abroad. I have made it very clear to the Chamber that we have been sitting at the very bottom of the floor in terms of the level of gas extraction in Groningen. If one is dependent on gas abroad, as we are in the Netherlands, we serve abroad with Groningen gas. When a contract expires, that contract must be renewed, because they do not want to sit in the cold in Belgium, France or Germany any more than we do. So we try to meet the physical need for Groningen gas, but as little as possible. We are trying to reduce the need in Belgium, Germany, France and the Netherlands. That is what I wanted to say about the two letters of amendment. Now I'm going to deal with the Groningen problem. On another occasion, we have already talked a lot about this. Mrs Mulder spoke about the measurement and control protocol that SodM is not satisfied with. That's right. SodM did not agree to the measurement and rule protocol of the NAM. I don't think that's NAM's unwillingness. In my opinion, it is a difference in technical approach and interpretation and also in terms of possibilities. I have indicated that within a period that I consider reasonable, the NAM must have a measurement and control protocol that meets the requirements of SodM. I will ensure that SodM is involved in this during the period until 1 November 2017. I'll set the frameworks for that. I believe that this protocol should really be there by 1 November 2017, so that it can be applied to the decision-making process that should then follow. Mr Vos spoke about the timing that should apply to Groningen. The cabinet has taken a stand on this. We sat down on 24, with a number of nuances around it. I've already talked about that. We have done so for a period of five years. We have said, in accordance with the opinion of the Mines Council, that after two years there will be a moment to review the situation and whether there is reason to reach a different conclusion. Mr Vos said that he would like to talk about this more often. He will have every opportunity to do so, because the NAM has to submit a report twice a year containing analyses on the development of seismicity and on the management measures to be taken in connection with it. Twice a year, we need a report like this. Those are public reports. The Chamber can therefore take note of this. I will follow these reports very closely myself to see if there are any new insights, and I will, of course, draw the House's attention and discuss them. The possibility of talking about this more often is therefore always there. In addition, the National Coordinator reports on its above-ground activities every quarter. That's another time to talk about Groningen. The possibility of discussing this is sufficient, but the cabinet has decided on a five-year period for a mining decision. There should be a new application for a extraction plan in four years' time. After two years there will be a calibration moment. I understand that after the recess, the Chamber would also like to have a debate with me on this subject. Of course, I'd like to be available for that. Mr Smaling spoke about governance. He called the NCG a puppet. I regret that. That official is absolutely not a puppet, because of what we have rigged to enable him to do his work meaningfully. He runs a large organization, partly here in The Hague, with people from various ministries. He runs a much larger organization in Groningen, in which people from provinces and municipalities are also present. It is someone who is respected by me, by the Cabinet and by the Chamber and who is able to do his job. I am going to look closely at his powers and whether those powers are in line with the image that the Cabinet and the Chamber have of him, or whether that can be finely sharpened even further. I have already said that he will also be overseeing the Centre for Safe Living with one window for the people in Groningen. He's already functioning as such. So I think we take the National Coordinator very seriously and that he's anything but a puppet. He's someone who needs to play an important role in the entire Groningen trial. I have already spoken about Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u115	My comment about the puppet I made to outline a position of someone who does not formally belong to the competent authority, but who does depend on others. The Minister explains only one element from a very exposé about governance, the whole administration of the gas system. Is he going to go further into that or has he just highlighted this in order to be able to check out the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u116	The whole gas building. Mr Smaling will probably remember that I was the first to begin. I had just taken office as a minister and I said that we should look at this because the gas building was created in the 1960s and a lot has happened since then. I've ordered myself to look into that. This review has been carried out and I am now talking to the other parties to see what the different views are and whether we can come to the conclusion together that things need to change and, if so, what things. So that process is going on. That governance is a fact. I'm not so worried about it, because there are very good arrangements. The gas is owned by the NAM, but if it is taken out of the ground, the vast majority of the money that is earned by it will end up in the State treasury. So that's well arranged. The construction that has been chosen for this can be discussed with GasTerra, EBN, the NAM and the Groningen Maatschap (Maatschap Groningen), and that is also happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u117	But it was a fairly prominent opinion of the Research Council for Security to look at this very carefully and perhaps to set it up differently from what it has worked in recent years? I do not now hear from the Minister that he intends to intervene at the level of people in Groningen and also from the Centre for Safe Living who have lost confidence and who feel that this is controlled by the NAM. I call the book The Gas Colony. It's just a book, okay, but you get such a back room feeling from small groups that decide things. You really need to get rid of that feeling. In my view, this can be achieved in part by substantially changing the whole system. I don't think the Minister is going to. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u118	There are contracts between Shell, ExxonMobil and the Empire. The Empire is partly directly and partly involved through 100%-daughter EBN. There are contracts and agreements. If I wanted to break that one-sided open, that would be a very costly matter. Then I'm the asking party, who gets claims and has to pay for them. We have made an analysis of what we set up at the time and the conditions under which it happened, of what the circumstances are now, of what the optimal construction is now and of what we can jointly draw for conclusions with respect for everyone's interests. I'm talking about that. Mr Smaling calls that back rooms. I call it normal conversations between stakeholders. That's part of our job, too. I was the first one to bring up this problem, had it figured out, and I'm working on it right now. It's my job to make that lead to something. I'll let the Chamber know. It can then have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u119	We had a technical briefing. There it said SodM: we are called State surveillance of the Mines, but really about mines like we used to have in Limburg, we don't have anything to say directly, while we are now involved in the advice on a whole route around Limburg. I wonder if it might be an idea to formalise the task for the finished mining activity as we know it in Limburg in the State surveillance of the Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I have no idea at this time. I do not know to what extent State surveillance is not involved and, if not, to what extent it would be desirable. I think it would be useful, if we come to the technical analysis of the situation in Limburg, to tackle this point immediately and bring it to the Chamber as a whole with the legal analysis we have already had. In this context, I will go into more detail on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u121	We have also tabled an amendment on this. We will hear later what the Minister thinks of all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u122	I have already mentioned what is going on in Limburg. There is indeed a mining fund, but there is only 2.5 tonnes in it. I have made a temporary provision for the possibility of poignant situations which need to be dealt with during the period of ongoing investigations. So I'm gonna keep it warm for a while and do whatever it takes while the investigation's going. Once the investigation has been completed, we must set our sights and determine whether any financial consequences should be linked to it. I have already said that the results of this investigation will come to the Chamber at the end of the year. I have already said something about the oil spill in Twente, but I haven't said anything about the production water coming from Schoonebeek, Groningen. In Schoonebeek oil is extracted from the bottom and when you raise oil, it raises particularly salt water. The rule is that you have to bring that salt water back to the bottom. We decided to do that, after we had an E.R. very well figured out what best to do with that water. It turned out to be the most environmentally friendly solution to pump it back into the layer from which it came or into a similar layer. We will, even if we have that water brought from Schoonebeek to Twente. It is added that production water anticorrosive agents and antibacterial agents to ensure that water can continue to flow down the pipes. The SodM has established that the quantities of anticorrosive agents and antibacterial agents entering the soil are no reason to stop this process. In my opinion, the EIA at the time shows that this is the most environmentally friendly way, but I nevertheless highlighted the evaluation of this in Twente. This evaluation takes place early in order to determine whether it is in fact still the most environmentally friendly way in the current situation. Mrs. Van Tongeren has argued to purify that water before returning it to the soil. I can tell her that this is unwise, because that purification costs a lot of energy, with all the harmful environmental effects that this entails. Besides, it costs a lot of money. If you bring that purified water back into the soil in a place where you've raised other water, there's the danger of chemical reactions and insecurity. So you create insecurity by purifying production water before returning it to the soil. That is exactly what Mrs Van Tongeren and I do not want and that is why I do not think it is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mrs Van Tongeren would like us to stop mining oil in Schoonebeek. In this case, the Minister really cannot insist that it is essential for self-sufficiency. Maybe the ministers' service cars can ride on that amount of oil, but there is absolutely no oil there to get close to self-sufficiency. Can the Minister confirm to me that the old E.R. is going to be environmentally friendly, because fossil energy is supposed to be used to purify the water? It has been calculated how much coal and gas flow is needed to purify that water and therefore the outcome of that EIA is that it is better to pump the production water back into the ground somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mrs van Tongeren talks about the ministers' service cars. I think that's just moody. There are millions and millions of people in this country very happy with their cars. Those people use petrol, diesel or LPG for their cars, and those are the ordinary people I worry about. If you're a minister, you do have a service car. That is the case, and I cannot deny it, but what the extraction of oil in Schoonebeek would have to do with the service cars of the ministers is totally lacking in me. I understand why Mrs Van Tongeren wants to stop using Schoonebeek oil just as she also wants to stop any form of gas extraction that has so far been discussed in the Chamber. I get that; I just don't feel the same way. What I said about gas also applies to oil. If you can make the mineral resources benefit the treasury and the people in the Netherlands, and if you don't have to get the oil from Saudi Arabia, Libya, Venezuela or any other country, you have to do so, as far as you can win that oil in a responsible way. We only do extraction of natural gas and oil in the Netherlands in responsible situations. Where this can be improved, we are all constantly working on it. Mrs Van Tongeren then spoke about what she called an old m.e.r. with fossil energy. Fossil energy still accounts for 94% of energy in the Netherlands. So we cannot ignore that. As I said, we have based on the old m.e.r. A choice made. With regard to the situation in Twente, the leakage that occurred there in the leadership, I decided as follows. First of all, we stop bringing that production water to Twente. Secondly, we're getting an m.e.r. forward. That's what I'm working on right now. We'll see if we can get out of that m.e.r. Something different comes up from the previous m.e.r.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u125	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u126	I gave the example of the service cars, but I could also have identified another random small group of people. The Minister understands very well what I meant, namely that a very small group can ride the oil from Schoonebeek. This has nothing to do with the self-sufficiency of the Netherlands. Unfortunately, we are still as dependent on imported oil as all countries around us. In this case, I am concerned with the following. This oil extraction does not help much to get the cars on the Dutch road ahead, but it has caused considerable damage. There's a leak in 16 places. The people who went to work have seen that kind of water. It's really dark brown to the black. We've had discussions about the stuff that's in there. Do you have to take the risk of bringing out the last, hard-to-win oil, just for the money? We shall come back to this: there is no other reason why we should win this oil in Schoonebeek than that we, the Netherlands, want to benefit from our own mineral resources. The Minister's saying the same thing now. But at what cost, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u127	As much as we can benefit from our own natural gas, we can also benefit from our own oil. It nevertheless contributes to the security of supply. We have stock of oil products in the Netherlands for several months. We have some oil that we may still be able to win responsibly. That all adds up a little bit. It's not wrong to do that at all. That production water may be dark, but it also comes up dark when we extract the oil, and then it goes back up again. There's nothing wrong with that in itself. However, it is transported over a distance. Anticorrosive agents and antibacterial agents are added. At the time, there was an m.e.r. weighting on the basis of which it was said that this is the best way for the environment. We are now going to look at that again. I'll see what comes out of it. I will draw my conclusions from that, not before then. So much for the beautiful Twente. When I just mentioned what is beautiful in the Netherlands, the Biesbosch, the Veluwe, the Wadden Sea and Zeeland, I forgot about Twente.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yesterday, when we dealt with the work...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u129	I forgot about Drenthe, too. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u130	This has been corrected. The minister likes Drenthe, too. Yesterday we supported Mr Van Tongeren's request for a debate on the situation with AkzoNobel in Twente. For that, I asked for a letter from the Minister with timelines and specific information on how and what. As far as we're concerned, that's the point. We understand that we will probably continue the debate next week. We would like that letter before next week's debate so that we can include it in this debate. I'd like to hear from the minister if he can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u131	What letter exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yesterday, this was discussed in the course of the work. The Acts have been forwarded to the Minister. The question is who knew what at what point about the situation at AkzoNobel with that leakage. This has been under the hat for a year, and that just can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u133	I don't know if it's been under the hat for a year. I do know State surveillance is working this out. I don't know when State surveillance will be done with that. As soon as I can give information about that to the Chamber, I will. As I said, AkzoNobel doesn't hold it under my hat, at least, we're gonna find out. I assume, however, that people are acting responsibly, and if they are not, I would like to hear it. Mrs Mulder has been able to confirm that I shared the information with the Chamber as soon as I received it. We'll see what the facts are. As soon as I get that information, the room will get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u134	That letter was also requested in connection with another debate. That was on yesterday's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u135	Yes. Perhaps that could be very well involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u136	I don't know, but okay. The applicant was Mrs Van Tongeren. However, this was related to something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u137	In any case, I welcome the Minister's undertaking that he will take these points further, and that will also be linked back to the Chamber. That's what I was talking about, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u138	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u139	Then there is the independence of State surveillance of the mines. Let me say two things in advance. The first is that I have never done anything, nor have my ministry as far as I can see, and that has been four years now, in order to undermine that independence of State control over the mines. There has never been anyone who has spoken to me about this in any form or has given rise to the suggestion that this would be the case. About the period before me, when Minister Verhagen and other ministers were sitting there, the 2013 Government Scientific Council said that SodM is an example of an impartial attitude. I think that the Scientific Council for Government Policy also found that the conditions for State control of the Mines were such that it could do its work completely independently. I think that is of the utmost importance. I don't need people talking to me or saying what they think I'd like to hear. I just want them to use their own expertise to make good analyses and give good advice. That certainly applies to State surveillance of the mines. It is not strange at all that State surveillance of the mines is functionally in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It's directly under the sg and under me. It is therefore quite clear that it is not in the hierarchy of the ministry. SodM doesn't get any clues from me as to how he's allowed to conduct investigations. He can decide for himself. What we are doing now in the legislative proposal that is before the Chamber, following the advice of the Security Research Council, is that we are putting some of the tasks that SodM is currently carrying out in my task directly with the Inspector-General of Mines. So I'm not in there anymore. They go straight to the organization. I did not give any clues, but the possibilities of doing so could be limited, also legally, further. It is legally stipulated that SodM may report its findings and assessments unchanged. It already could, but now we're laying it down in the law. There is an absolute separation between authorisation and supervision. Authorisation lies with the Ministry's policy and is completely separate from that from the State supervision of the Mines, which functions functionally in terms of facilities and the like under the sg and under me. I think that means that we have the ideal situation for State supervision of the Mines in order to be able to function freely. The Chamber has spoken of a ZBO status for State surveillance of the Mines. Surveillance does not require zbo status. The regulators at the Empire aren't usually ZBOs. For example, the Dutch Food and War Authority does not function as a Zbo, but can still do its job very well. The same goes for SodM. Changing that kind of thing doesn't materialize. The same applies if you bring it under another ministry. It is already an example of independence according to the Scientific Council for Government Policy. I also say that I do nothing, zero point zero, to stand in the way of that independence and independence. Then we can put it in another ministry, but what's the point? The Labour Inspectorate, the Labour and Income Inspectorate, is governed by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The health inspection is carried out by the Minister of Health. The inspection on education is the responsibility of the Minister of Education. The transport inspection is carried out by the Minister of I and M. The mining inspection is carried out by the Minister of EZ. In itself there is no problem with that and wanting to change something in it means a change in the structure without any material meaning. That's why I'm not up for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u140	I do attach great importance to the WRR's report, but there is still discussion about the independence of the SodM. This has nothing to do with certain directors, but with the functional positioning under the Ministry of EZ. Now, for good reasons, we decided not so long ago to place the supervision of nuclear power stations at I and M. The AVS falls under the Ministry of I and M. I think that is a very wise decision, there is a great deal of understanding for it and it works well in practice. We have had discussions with this Minister on nuclear energy and with the Minister of I and M on the control of nuclear power plants. Why should we not do so in the case of State surveillance of the Mines, too, in order to avoid any appearance of conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u141	I'll tell you. That is because international agreements have been made on nuclear power plants. There are countries in the world where the situation is not the same as in the Netherlands, where my predecessor, my successor or me are dealt with and where we function as we do in our relations. The relationship between the supervisor and the government is different in other countries than in our country. The safety of nuclear power stations is something special. There are different situations in the world in which the international organisation IAEA has made agreements which should be seen above all as protecting those countries where the situation is not good enough. Countries such as the Netherlands must also comply with these international agreements and for this reason I have asked for advice from that organisation. This advice came out because it's what they give to all countries. I also followed that advice, but there is no international organisation that says that you should remove the education inspection at Education, for example, or transport at I and M, work and income at Social Affairs or public health at VWS. There is also no international organization that says that you must remove state surveillance of the mines from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u142	I'll make one last attempt. I certainly do not want to doubt the intentions of this minister or his successor. I have seen the proposals in the law to position state surveillance even more independently. At the same time, we are dealing with the report of the OVV on the situation in Groningen and with the book De gascolony. That is "but" a book, but it does show that there is a strong feeling that it is decided outside the involvement of citizens. What is against bringing supervision under the Ministry of I and M, precisely to give citizens the feeling that they are being taken seriously, that there is absolute independence and that there is no conflict of interest possible or conceivable, where business interests go for citizens' interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u143	Why would we solve a problem that isn't there? We have enough problems that are real and that we need to solve. Mrs Dik-Faber can say that there is a discussion, but if she calls me to the Chamber every week and questions the independence of the SodM, she can say to me after six months that there is a constant discussion about it, but then it is Mrs Dik-Faber who would have caused it. I don't feel like there's any unrest about the SodM at all. Both the analysis of the WRR and the practice of recent years show that no official of the Ministry, the SodM or other supervisors has had any complaints about it. There's nothing going on. There's no problem. We can say that we're taking it away from the Ministry, putting it somewhere else and bringing in the Security Research Council, when we don't do it in all the other ministries, but the Research Council doesn't say you should make it an emergency. The Research Council doesn't say you have to take it away from EZ and move it to I and M. What the OVV says is that you must further anchor and strengthen independence, independence. Then what happens in practice? I don't give orders. I'm not changing reports. They can come out with it themselves. They're also getting direct jobs, not through me. I'm putting all that into this bill now. They were already independent. This bill will make them even more independent. We have a perfect situation here. In my opinion, no one needs to establish a ZBO or place it at I and M. That doesn't solve a problem, because there's no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u144	I would like to ask another question on the same point. I'm sure the Minister would be happy to answer that. The Minister says that there is no problem because he wants to make the SodM more independent, but according to the opinion of the Council of State, the problems appear to be there. Then you will find yourself in a situation where you are creating a service that has powers that should directly fall under the ministerial responsibility. The Minister is right to say that other inspections fall under direct ministerial responsibility. There is a reason for this, because they can restrict the rights of the parties. That should be a ministerial responsibility. If the minister says he wants to make the SodM more independent of him, then the only way to do so is to maintain the system that that kind of far-reaching powers are covered by a ministerial responsibility, by placing it with another ministry. The minister says there's no problem, but there is a problem. That's addressed by the Council of State. That is because the powers of the SodM are not covered by the ministerial responsibility of being placed at a distance from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u145	I was distracted, for which I apologize. The SodM needs to be independent because it needs to be able to follow critically what is happening and give clues to it. It must be able to give opinions on this matter. It must be able to give an assessment of it. It has to be able to watch. It must be able to play its role, without being hindered in any way by legal provisions or by directors who are not in a good position to do so. I am convinced that all the provisions we had, combined with the attitude of the rulers, are creating an ideal situation. I can see that you can also give the practice a legal basis on a number of points. That is what I have done with this proposal, but that does not leave a problem. I really do not understand why we have to talk about this every time no one experiences a problem with it. That was not the case in the past. There's no signal now. Nor is there any expectation that this will be the case in the future. So I absolutely do not understand why we should find a solution to this. Nor do I have any reluctance to act if there is a problem. I myself was the one who went to the IAEA and asked: what should I do with nuclear surveillance? They have explained to me that story of the world: if you want something from other countries as the Netherlands, you have to do it yourself. If there are international agreements, we simply comply with them, but there is no such agreement here. I have great difficulty in taking measures, setting up a Zbo or taking something away from a ministry and bringing it to another ministry if there is no point at all and there is no need at all. So I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mrs Van Veldhoven, after such firm statements, does it make any sense to interrupt further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u147	Absolutely, Mr. President, because the Council of State notes that there is a problem here. That problem is very clear: power must be controlled. If the SodM has the power to enter into human rights, then it must also be controlled. Then it must be covered by ministerial responsibility. It is precisely because the Minister distanced the SodM, which is very important for other reasons, that he cannot take responsibility for the power he places with the SodM himself. That is why the Council of State says that there is a problem and that it is better to organise it in a different way. The easiest way is to place it with another ruler. So I'm fighting that no one notices a problem, because that's what the Council of State's opinion says he sent in response to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u148	That would be great, because first we're going to create a problem. Although there is nothing going on in practice, we are now going to legislate on a number of things that are already the case in practice. And now Mrs Van Veldhoven says: we have created a problem for which we have to find a solution. That's occupational therapy, isn't it? There's really nothing going on here. There is a service that must fulfil its role and monitor what is happening in the Netherlands in the field of mining. In practice, we have managed to deal with this perfectly, and we are now ensuring that it is further laid down in the rules. We can get out of this, the supervisor can get out of it, no one has a problem with it. If there is any discussion about it, that is the discussion here in the Chamber, which I do not think, in this case, is a translation of anything that actually exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u149	The very last, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u150	The Minister is actually saying that he has put something in the Chamber that he himself does not support, and I think that is a rather special situation. All I can tell you is that the Council of State says that there is a problem here with ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u151	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u152	If the Council of State signals such a thing, does the Minister not think that we need to find a serious answer to that and that the answer cannot be that he keeps it in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u153	We've had an investigation from the Security Research Council. The Chamber has agreed to what the government has said about this, namely that it will adopt these recommendations. The Security Research Council has said that a number of things should also be laid down by law. That's what we're doing now. I think that by laying down the practice in the law, on the advice of the Security Research Council, there is really no problem. If that ever turns out to be a problem, I see that absolutely nothing is going to happen, then we can always find a solution. It would not serve any purpose if you decided to turn SodM into a Zbo now or transfer it to another ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u154	Can the Minister indicate to what extent he can deviate from the opinions of SodM in his legislative proposal and, if so, under what conditions? Can he just ignore them or is there some kind of coercion they need to be followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u155	As soon as I have to take advice, it is no longer advice, but then I can do something else and SodM can decide what to do in Groningen. The only problem is that if I do it, the Chamber can call me here to answer for it, and if she does not like it, she can put me on the spot. That is our democracy. So we organise it in such a way that there are all kinds of sensible opinions and then a minister has to take responsibility for them, he has to make a proposal to the cabinet, the cabinet then takes a decision and the minister has to answer to the Chamber. That is, I think, the ideal situation in our parliamentary democracy. So, if there are advice from SodM, that's what I'm looking at and what I'm thinking about, and then I'm doing what I think is right. I started doing that when I came to this place with Economic Affairs. Then SodM's advice was to go back with the gas extraction as soon as possible and then I went to investigate what was going on and what was the best form before that. The following advice from SodM was: return the extraction aimed at Loppersum. Now there's an advice to sit at 24 billion meters. There is therefore an interaction between the opinions I receive, the decisions I make and the responsibility I make here in the Chamber, and I think that we have found the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u156	That is clear, but another supervisor, for example the Authority's Consumer & Market, has opted for a different way. The opinions of the ACM shall be binding. So that is not where the Minister chose to take ministerial responsibility. Then why did the Minister at SodM choose to do this and not do it like the ACM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u157	At the ACM I do not perform in individual cases. We do not put in place an independent supervisor who decides something in case A, and then say himself that something else has to be decided in case A. I'm not. Well, I'll come up with policy rules, if I think it's necessary. I've done that recently, and I've done that before. That's how we handle it in a good way. We have the Dutch Food and War Authority, the Inspection SZW, SodM, the ACM, and for every situation we have given a sensible interpretation. If at any time the Chamber finds that this interpretation is not sensible, then we can discuss it with each other. However, the Chamber does not want to make material changes, but it wants to change the form by saying that it now has that form and you have to make a zbo out of it. I remember debates in the Chamber where it was said that you should work with Zbos as little as possible. And now it's said that I have to make a zbo out of it. It has also been said that it should not be housed with EZ but with I and M. Those are not substantive matters. So I have said what I can say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u158	The Minister continues his speech, which I feel is beginning to walk towards the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u159	Were it not that the Chamber made me happy with 30 to 35 amendments. I'll be discussing it in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u160	I have heard beside myself whispering that activity would come from the Chamber at that point. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u161	I understand that we have until 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u162	There are other things on the roll, so it's clear we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u163	That's the problem; that's what I get. That is why, with apologies of course to the Minister who is fully prepared to keep his story now, I propose that this deadline be suspended until Wednesday and that the amendments be started. That is better than starting over the next 25 minutes with the amendments, on which we would also like to exchange a number of things and add them together, which may make it a bit messy. We'd like to do it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u164	My specific proposal is to de facto suspend now and to continue with the oral debate next week by the Minister for the amendments. What are the other Members' feelings about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u165	I would like to wholeheartedly support this proposal. A quick examination of these amendments could be speeded up if the Minister could send his response to the Chamber in writing. Then we can also choose a little which major points of disagreement we still want to discuss with the Minister. Also next week will be a full week and we will not have unlimited time. A number of amendments may be deleted, and I know that there are still some in the process. Then we have the whole package and we can also restrict ourselves a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u166	That is actually a new proposal. At the heart of the matter, you support Mr Bosman's proposal, but you extend it slightly by asking for a written response in advance. We will then have a discussion on the possible political issues. That will then be the proposal. I see a lot of spokesmen nodding yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u167	Can I say something about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u168	The Minister can give advice on this, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u169	It's a legal procedure. This concerns the communication between the Chamber and me, between the two co-legislators. I am preparing for such a debate. I have prepared all these amendments. I'd like to discuss a bill verbally with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u171	I've been talking. I am proposing a compromise, which I hope will satisfy all the wishes, including those of the Minister, who is our guest. I propose that we proceed until 7 p.m. with the answer in the first period, starting with the questions that are still open and then starting with the examination of the amendments in the order that the Minister wishes, because he has finally taken the floor. If we did not manage with the whole of the sad amendments, which is obvious, we would stop at 7 p.m. next week and continue orally where we left off. That is my proposal to you: who can agree or has a counter-proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u172	Fine, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr Bosma, of the VVD, agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u174	Bosman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u175	Mr Bosman, of the VVD, agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u176	I propose that the debate be concluded and that the questions be answered and that the amendments be dealt with next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u177	That's a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u178	I wholeheartedly support Mr Vos's proposal, because I believe that a number of amendments can still be put together. It may well improve the efficiency of the process if we deal with the amendments next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u179	I think so, too. It is also possible that the answer will withdraw a single amendment. Amendments are being merged, which makes it clearer. I understand the Minister's preference for an oral reply. Let us then start with the amendments on Wednesday and now use the remaining time to answer the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u180	You therefore support Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u181	I too support Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u182	Support for Mr Vos's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u183	I too support Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Vos and Mr Smaling's proposal. I think it is right to deal with the amendments orally next week, so that the Minister does not have to give a written reply in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u184	Also support for the proposal by Mr Vos and Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u185	Support for Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u186	So decided. Then I'll ask the Minister if he'd like to finish the outstanding questions. I suggest that this is not a proposal; you have forced it to proceed next week with the oral examination of any amendments which may then be recast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u187	I had asked the minister some questions about methane. I asked if anything was known about methane leakage in the Netherlands. There's some kind of coalition to prevent methane from being emitted. Public authorities and industry are involved, but the two big companies in the Netherlands, namely the NAM and Gasunie, are not. Can the Minister respond to that? Can he tell us if there is any knowledge in the Netherlands of how much gas has escaped? If not, can that be investigated? This is very important information, because natural gas is methane, and that is one of the biggest causes of the greenhouse effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr Wassenberg's assessment of methane is correct. Methane is even more incriminating than CO. The entire regulatory framework for installations, gas extraction and monitoring by SodM aims to prevent the escape of methane. I have no information that would escape methane in Groningen. I know SodM keeps an eye on that. Because I have confidence in the monitoring of SodM and have no signals that methane escapes, I do not think it is necessary to take additional measures there. I shall now turn to the other points...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mr Wassenberg, on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u191	Shall we try to keep the interruptions brief and concise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u192	Fine. I don't know that we're being measured. I would very much like to receive from the Minister the results of the measurements of SodM. According to my information, no measurements are made. I would also ask for a response to Mr Koenders' request to ask, among other things, the Gasunie and the NAM to join the coalition against emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u193	I can't see what's going on in that coalition against emissions. I can't rule on that. Here's what I'm gonna say to the question about SodM. If I don't have any signals that there's a problem, if SodM keeps an eye on it and doesn't tell me there's a problem, then I have no reason to assume something's going on. However, Mr Wassenberg asked me twice about this. That gives me reason to contact SodM about this and check the information I have. If this leads to a different view, I will inform the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren asked how the monitoring of the wells is financed. The mining companies themselves monitor the wells. They must therefore also cover the costs incurred themselves. How this monitoring should be carried out, we record in the environmental permit. So it's up to us. And they do and pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u194	Mrs Van Tongeren will have an opportunity to make a brief and concise interruption, as agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u195	The question is what happens after that 30-year period. At Deepwater Horizon we saw that it was an old closed well. Who monitors wells long after the company says it's all done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u196	I will look into whether there is anything in this regard that deserves the attention of the Chamber and of me. On the basis of Mrs Van Tongeren's signal and question, I shall check it out. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether companies after mining activities still need to investigate whether groundwater has not been contaminated. That actually comes down to the same thing. Yeah, those companies have to do that. They can do groundwater monitoring near the mining plant. You have a mining facility and the groundwater in a certain environment of it needs to be monitored. If we think this is useful, we prescribe it in the permit conditions and then the companies must do so. So I think what needs to be done here is happening. Mrs Mulder asked if the Chamber could be informed by default about the annual reports of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement and about soil movement in general. The annual reports of the Tcbb are published on the website. Those reports shall contain an overview of the work carried out by the Tcbb in a given year. It does not contain specific information on soil movement. Information and data about soil movement are published on the websites of TNO and KNMI. The information is therefore accessible in different ways. I will check whether the information is sufficiently aligned and, if necessary, whether there is sufficient reference to each other. So I'm gonna check the accessibility issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u197	I know that the annual reports are publicly available. Of course, we have seen the same thing. But in the technical briefing, the capacity and the shortage of it emerged very clearly. If such things are involved in this kind of organization that is important to us, we would like to hear what the Minister can do about it. Of course, it cannot be the intention that we should all be in harm's way and that we should continue to do so, partly because it is sticking with them. That was the background to this question. I'll ask another question in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u198	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u199	As far as I am concerned, this could happen right now, Mr President, because I have already responded to the previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u200	Could the advice accompanying the decision on the extraction of gas by the Tccb and the mining council that goes to the minister also go to local authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u201	The advice of SodM and the mining council...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, it's the advice of the mining council and the Tcbb. They give advice on gas extraction. Can this also be sent to the local authorities, because the local authorities then give advice to the minister again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u203	Do I understand from this that Mrs Mulder assumes that those opinions would not be public? I'll see what happens with those advices. Are they public or not? If they are not public, the municipality itself must take the initiative to look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u204	Perhaps you could comment on that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u205	If that's not public, I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u206	I thank the Minister for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mr President, I am afraid I have to disappoint you, because I have come to the end of this part of my first term. I will be happy to begin with the response to the spokesmen's amendments when I follow on from my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u208	Thank you very much, but I see two more interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u209	My interruption is about the ongoing procedures. How does the Minister deal with this if the First and Second Chambers have not yet dealt with everything under the Mining Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u210	I'm trying to suspend things, for example, if I don't think it's justified to wait any longer. The same applies to Schiermonnikoog. There's been something I've been asking for information about three times for a year and a half. An external issue was then clarified and, at some point, I felt it was necessary to take a decision from the point of view of good governance. Then I will. But if I can hold things up within the limits of good governance until the discussion with the Chamber on the Mining Act is clear about the future line, then I will. So that's my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u211	In my term, I had asked for a detailed explanation of the definition of serious grounds to withdraw an already granted mining licence. I didn't hear the Minister answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u212	No, I could also check all the contributions of the spokesmen to see if there were anything left. At least let me do it for Mrs. Klever. It is not clear to me exactly what Mrs Klever means by that. Look, here's the thing. It cannot, of course, be that I give a permit exactly according to the conditions and the rules and that, once it has been granted, I withdraw it at some point without good reason. If I want to withdraw something that has been granted, then I must have reasons to resist the test of criticism. Those who do not agree may object to this. If they do not agree with the outcome of that objection, they will go to the Council of State and have it checked. This means that the Council of State will also consider whether the reasons for withdrawing it are sufficient. That is then expressed for serious reasons that I need to do so. It seems logical to me that you should have those reasons for doing such a thing from the point of view of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u213	I fully agree with the Minister that this can only be done under serious circumstances. Only in his introduction, the Minister said that in the Netherlands, 94% of us are still dependent on fossil fuels. The Minister also knows that every drilling has resistance from the left to stop these drillings, and he has also announced his departure. What if there's another minister who might look at this differently? To what extent does he have the freedom to withdraw an existing licence under the pretext of serious grounds? That's where I'm concerned about this bill. In the explanatory memorandum, the example was given that an area that would no longer be suitable for mining activities could be identified through an AMvB. This could be a serious ground for withdrawing an authorisation already granted. I think that's very easy. Hence my question as to whether the Minister can explain what he means by serious grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u214	I don't quite understand what my leaving has to do with it. I always try to answer questions from Mrs Klever and questions from journalists. If I am asked if I am 65 years old and I have worked 46 years to add four more years to my 11.5 years of ministry, then I say no. I have done so, and that does not seem to me to be a very strange answer, but of course that does not in any way prevent me from working as a minister here. I'm just a minister for this cabinet period, and that means I'm making decisions. If a decision has been taken and a permit has been granted and that permit has to be withdrawn, then I will only do so if there are serious reasons for doing so. If I did that without serious reasons, I would be corrected. Whether I stay another year or five years, and whether there will be a successor very soon or whether it will take a long time for a successor to arrive, that doesn't matter. We live in a country where there is legal certainty. It is also there when it comes to once licences are granted. They can be withdrawn, but then there must be serious reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mrs. Klever, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u216	I am merely asking for a more precise explanation of the word. We all know that parties on the left would prefer to get rid of fossil as soon as possible. We hear this all the time in the debates. So to what extent is this bill left antifossil proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u217	Not only the left wants to get rid of fossil, I also want to get rid of fossil, while I don't count myself to the left. I think it is very sensible to make the transition from fossil to renewable energy. That's why I'm working on it with my heart and soul, but I'd like to make that transition work. I also want to ensure that our society continues to operate. I also want to stand for legal certainty in the Netherlands. Our country stands out very well in terms of the legal system and legal certainty in the world. That is because we come to decision in an honest, non-corrupt manner. The government is able to implement that decision-making. When decision-making is reversed, there are major reasons for this. I do not have to define with criteria what is or is not important. That's the administrative work you have to do. You have to make a responsible assessment, a consideration that you can justify when tested. That goes for me, for my predecessors and for my successors, whether they are left or right. None of that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u218	I do not think the Minister wants to leave at all, because he is on the move today and he just wants to finish the debate. I have a question about safety. There is a story about this in the explanatory statement, but it still lingers a bit. It outlines the way in which the Mining Act deals with safety. Somewhere else it says that the definition of the term is not strict. The implementation and application can therefore be adjusted over time. If I lived in a damaged house in Groningen, I wouldn't get a very good feeling about this. I would not then feel that the Minister's definition of security is going to be such that some things will not happen again or in such a way that I no longer have to feel unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u219	This was your brief, concise interruption, Mr. Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u220	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u221	People in Groningen don't get a sense of what I put on paper, but of what I do in practice. They have seen that compared to the year 2012, before this cabinet took office, gas extraction has been halved. They've seen the Center of Safe Living have arrived. They've seen the National Coordinator arrive. They have seen that out of 66,000 damage cases, 60,000 have been offered which has been accepted in 80% of the cases. They also see that we are very ambitious in terms of strengthening, that we have set up a large inspection programme which will then lead to sensible reinforcement. This means that we are working on a wide scale to regain the confidence of people in Groningen through action. Whatever's on paper has to contribute to that. As far as the wordings can do better, I will do my best to do so, but I will concentrate mainly on achieving real results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u222	I appreciate that very much and that is also the essence, but what I see here is a bit like capitulating for not being able to act on the concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u223	Safety for the people in Groningen is my great concern. My second great concern is that constant threat of damage, which affects the well-being of the people in Groningen. If there are texts that are not a good representation of them, I will try to formulate them better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-8.u224	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. Next week we will continue the debate, in which the Minister will start examining the amendments.
