ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin immediately with the question of building up the King's budget, in particular the personalised allowance and the remuneration for performing a royal function in relation to the decision-making process at the end of the 1960s, in the early 1970s. Anyone following the reports on this issue might get the picture as if our predecessors on this side and in the Chamber, in the Lower House, in the early sixties said: the queen gets too much money; she should start paying property tax. It was the opposite. At that time, there was a problem with the royal finances. At that time, the queen had too few funds to perform the royal function properly. That is why our predecessors decided to look very fundamentally at the whole of royal finances. The queen, the heir to the throne and their husbands did not receive personal income until 1972. It is important to mention that. The costs of the Royal House, i.e. those now covered by the B component of Article 1 and Article 2 of the budget, were only partially reimbursed. So more money had to go to the Royal House, because the revenues, i.e. the almost complete exemption from taxes, and the income of the Crown Domain were insufficient. The crown domain now had almost no revenue. Together with the revenues from the tax exemption, they were insufficient to bear the costs, so more money had to go. There have been several committees, such as the Simons Committee and then the Cals/Donner Committee. It was then decided to abolish the phenomenon of the tax exemption on capital. We went to a whole new system and the tax exemption on capital was abolished. Another source of income was lost. It was also decided that the remuneration for the performance of a royal function was to cover costs and that a person-specific benefit was to be paid. The logical idea was that with an income from the State and a cost-covering budget for the Royal House the capital efficiency exemption no longer had to be used. The return on wealth was no longer needed to be used to finance and live the Royal House. All this happened at the same time over a period of three to five years. There is, of course, a relationship between all these subjects. It was ultimately about what the most important Oranges would be left at the bottom of the line at that time. There was too little money; that had to be a higher amount. This is different from the fact that there would be an agreement that would create an image that would compensate for capital taxes and would be returned in the future. As I wrote in my letter yesterday, there is no question of that. As I also outline in my letter, the problem is that I cannot demonstrate exactly how the 500,000 guilders were built. When it finally started, that amount was indexed to 540,000 guilders. There aren't any parts of that. In any case, there is no indication whatsoever that, as indicated in the notice, at least 150,000 guilders of this would be linked to the expiry of the exemption from capital tax. That is why it seems very good to me to have an integral study of the whole of the royal finances at the end of the 1960s, the early 1970s: how did that amount come about, how should we see it, also in relation to the issue of capital taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	I'll see if the Prime Minister's ready at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	No, I want to say more about it. Maybe I can go into the design of the investigation separately after questions have been asked. But first I would like to address this point in general terms. I believe that the term "secret deal" gives the impression that the then cabinet pretended that the queen had to pay property tax, but that the State had been sneaking back every year since then. A lot of Dutch people will think. The study by EenVandaag yesterday and other studies show that this image was created. That's just not the case. Queen Juliana, Queen Beatrix and also the current king paid or... Every year, capital taxes are paid on the same basis as any Dutch citizen. In 1972 it was perfectly clear to the Court that this is all public; it is stated in the explanatory notes on all the legislative proposals and the constitutional amendment that, at the same time as introducing that obligation to pay capital taxes, the total amount available for the House of Orange had to increase. Otherwise, the Oranges would continue to internee on their own capital and in fact find themselves in a situation where they could no longer afford the kingship. Those are my introductory words. Maybe this is the time for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Prime Minister's story here is clearer than his letter, so we can move forward with that. The Prime Minister says that there is indeed a relationship between lifting the tax exemption and increasing the remuneration. That's also in the documents I studied with great interest last night. At the same time as the abolition of duty-free, adequate arrangements will be made for the king's financial position. To this end, constitutional benefits will have to be increased by an income component. In other words, the abolition of duty-free should increase the income component. Is that what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	We don't know exactly what happened. What I do know is that there is no question of a mysterious deal being made outside the Chamber's scope, beyond the explanatory statements that have been dealt with here in connection with the various legislative proposals. Those were two crucial legislative proposals and a constitutional change. Mr Van Raak says that the letter on this subject was unclear. I'd like to defend myself against that. Indeed, it is quite literally stated in yesterday's letter that 'it was found that there was a relationship between the determination of an income component and the limitation of duty-free that both subjects were part of the overall package of the system review that took place in the early 1970s'. That's literally in the letter we sent to the Chamber yesterday. That is exactly what I am repeating here. This isn't new information. I'll tell you what's in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	The confusion was mainly that the Prime Minister then made many other claims in the letter, namely that there is no evidence and that there is a need for an investigation, even a historical investigation. But that's not the point. The documents we now have are documents from a public archive. Otherwise, we wouldn't have them. RTL has also seen pieces in a private archive. Can we see those pieces, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'll be right back to all the questions about the archive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	Among other things, these records state that the top officials were very critical of this deal, of this construction and of this method. It also says that they felt very uncomfortable by the interference of Prince Bernhard. Is that right? Did the Prime Minister see that in those documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	It works so that the National Archives cannot tell us exactly which pieces RTL has seen or not seen. That is the confidentiality that applies between the National Archives and the journalists involved. We have done the best possible research into what we think RTL has been looking at. What we cannot find is some justification for the claim that there would have been compensation for the income element in relation to the abolition of tax-free allowances on capital taxes. In the letter sent yesterday, we added a number of relevant passages about it. Then I come to the second question, about the archival research and the follow-up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Let's finish this first. This is exactly what the Prime Minister always does...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	I would like to answer the question. Mr Van Raak also asked a question about the investigation, in particular about the archives. In my letter, I propose, and I think it is wise to do a thorough and, I might add, independent historical research into what exactly happened in the late 1960s and early 1970s to make sure that we understand exactly how these amounts were made and what the links between those amounts and duty-free rates are. I think that will help us to understand that. This, of course, raises the question of how to deal with the documents we have seen today. The notes from which I quote in the letter have been received from the National Archives. It is not possible for me to send those documents to the Chamber without consultation with the National Archives. I am quite relaxed about the idea that all these documents will be made public. The first obstacle to this is the National Archives. The second aspect is that I think it would be wise to discuss with the historical researchers I am going to ask, as I write in my letter, with the Chamber, both the assignment and who we are going to propose to discuss the desirability of these documents being made public or after they have done the research. It can also affect the research they are going to do. So I'd be happy to discuss that with them. I am quite relaxed about the idea that at some point we are asking the National Archives to publish all the documents we have seen. This may be only after completion of the study or, if the researchers have no objection, during the study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think that's a very good commitment. As far as I'm concerned, it's happening as soon as possible. The fact remains that RTL News researchers have seen in an archive that a deal has been made, that top officials are seriously concerned about this, that the government wanted to keep this hidden from the parliament and that officials have been seriously annoyed by Prince Bernhard's interference. The Prime Minister, or his people, have been watching and none of them have seen it. I find that highly remarkable. What the Prime Minister confirms here is that, at the same time as the abolition of duty-free, adequate arrangements had to be made. It consisted of an increase in the income component of the constitutional benefit. The very simple question I have for the Prime Minister is: what amount is it? I need that amount because I would like to make an amendment to undo that amount, which is still in the current fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	We have not found any evidence that there would be any compensation in the amount of the royal allowance to compensate for the abolition of duty-free. There is no question of that at all. The documents released by RTL yesterday all underline what I write in my letter, namely that when reviewing the royal finances where duty-free was reduced, the costs of the Royal House had to be covered at the same time. A personal allowance was introduced for the person who sits on the throne, the successor and the possibly retired king and husbands. We still know that system. The total of these components had to result in a larger amount being available for the Orange House. That's the only relationship. We have not been able to find a direct link in the documents, not even in yesterday's RTL documents. In fact, they underline my view that there was a general discussion on the relationship between all these components. That also makes sense, because why limit duty-free if that is the only source of income for the Royal House, when you have to establish at that point that they had too little money available for the performance of their duties? Mr Van Raak's question is a leading question, but he knows the answer: there is no evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	The problem is that we can only discuss documents which RTL could make public and which were in a public archive, but RTL has largely based itself on documents that are not public. The criticism of those top officials is in that private archive. The government's intention not to submit it to the Lower House is in that closed archive. We can only have this debate if we have that information. We are faced with the problem that a journalist claims to have seen it and the Prime Minister says he did not see it. How can we proceed with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	I have just said what I am prepared to do with this information, either for historical research or after that if the researchers say: do not do it now, we want to do the research first. I am prepared to disclose all the information, all the documents that we suspect RTL has had access to, the information that we have used, in so far as it is not about the personal finances of individual members of the Royal House. There is no objection to that, but I think it is correct, referring to the previous answer, to discuss it first with the researchers. And the National Archives must also give permission to do so. That is the second thing we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	I've got a couple of actual dots. Firstly, the Prime Minister says that the only revenue from the Royal House was tax-free until 1972.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	Plus the crown domain, but that didn't pay off anymore. And they received limited remuneration for the performance of royal function. That was a limited fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	It is in the Constitution, because I believe that compensation has been in place since 1850.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, that's the third component. That's right, but it wasn't cost-effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	Secondly, it is already remarkable that RTL has seen documents that are not public, but has contacted RTL or has been contacted on behalf of the Prime Minister and asked: what have you looked into, and we would also like to do so. Is that consistent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	No, we have not gone that far, but I can very well imagine that the historical researchers will do so. We think we have seen most of what RTL has seen by now. In my opinion, the documents that RTL released yesterday to advocacy his statement confirm the content of our letter: there is no direct link, but there is, of course, a general relationship between the various elements when reviewing the royal finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	I have already said and now confirm that for what has come out, I can also find no direct evidence. That means more to that deal or arrangement, I have to say 'deal' is not the good word 'which was made in 1972 anyway to settle the matter properly. But RTL claims to have more. Then it is a little strange for the Prime Minister to say, without asking RTL what it actually has: we couldn't find anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	That seems to me to be something the historical researchers must do. I think it goes a little far for a government to question journalists about that. That can also lead to a feeling of improper pressure. I don't think that's wise. We have understood ourselves with the National Archives. We now think we have access to the documents that RTL has also seen. As far as we are concerned, all the documents we know can be made public, except when they contain references to personal finances, but that is very limited. That is only in one case and I think it is nice to hear about it, of course first with the National Archives, because that has to be formally approved, but also with the researchers. We'll do it either now or as soon as the investigation is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	The Prime Minister continues to talk about historical researchers. I agree with him that this knowledge should be present, but shouldn't it be much wider? Shouldn't you also have financial experts and legal-fiscal experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	I would like to take a look at the various things that have been said about this in the debate. I have followed the first term of the Chamber, from the various political groups. I have already said in the letter that I will come to the Chamber with a proposal for an investigation. I will therefore give a weighting of how I see it and respond to the various comments. If you allow it, that is a clarification of what I said in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	The Prime Minister is now returning to the 1960s and 1970s. He described it loosely this week by saying that, I think, it was a mess in terms of finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	That's a good way to sum it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	I think we can share that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	It may not be a royal word, but it is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	At least it's a concept we all know. However, we should not now pretend that the family was completely poor at the time and that this had nothing to do with the relationship between private wealth and the government. Let us be honest, the decades and centuries before that, the royal family has built up a wealth through our colonies and the fact that until 1850 the private finances and the state treasury were about one. It was not for nothing that Wilhelmina did not like that we would let Indonesia go, because that might cause problems with the oil shares. Given this history, I do not think that we should now have the idea that we should be happy that the family is doing it and that the expenses are just covering costs. I am quite willing to get over the hassle of the past few days and not go into the details of who knew what, but then I would like to say to the insurance officer that I heard Prime Minister say that he is letting it work on his own, that it will not be an investigation of historians with limitations and so on. I would like to say that my question is that it is the end of the matter and that it is the start of a balanced financing of the income share of the current king and his successors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	I notice that Mr Pechtold is an art historian. As a historian, I could still comment on his grand sweep from 1815 to Queen Wilhelmina. I'm not doing that right now, and I'm gonna leave this on his tab. I'm going straight to his specific end point and the question he's asking. I would like to understand the intentions of our predecessors when they determined those amounts and how that related to the other aspects of royal income. Then we can better understand what the 500,000 guilders and the sums that were applicable to the heir, the retired king and the husbands were based on. I would like to understand that, but at the moment that is not possible from the documents we have seen. The fact that we could wrongly claim that the King would have been compensated for the abolition of the property tax exemption is the cause of the very wide package at the time. But I also want to understand the exact logic behind how I dealt with Gerrit Zalm's research of eight, nine years ago. That's what the investigation's for. Suggestions have also been made by the General Court. I would now like to make a few comments about the general Court's thinking as such, because this investigation is indeed a broader aspect than the Court of Auditors is normally working on. In order to avoid that discussion now, I would ask you to give me the opportunity to make that happen to me. I have already written in the letter that I will return to the Chamber with a proposal for membership and, above all, for the commission's mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	I am prepared to think along, but I would like to assure you that it is not just about that part of the return on capital and how that went up and down. That now appears to be one of the ingredients that has led to the question of what it really costs. If you read that Prince Bernhard complained about the price of baptismal dresses and baptismal ceremonies and that all had to be incorporated into them, it indicates that at that time there was already discomfort about how to deal with the pressure from the family. What is immediately emerging from the Prime Minister's proposed research on how to deal with that part of the capital is the basis for looking at how the whole amount has been achieved. As a result, the old Queen Beatrix is still getting €500,000, apart from courtship. What's she getting that for anyway? It also results from the fact that Amalia will receive 2.5 tonnes tax-free as from its 18th birthday, next to the whole court. For what, anyway? If we have that insight, we may differ on the level of it, then we can at least explain why in 1973 and in 2008 we did what we all now find. Does the Prime Minister see that in that perspective? My second question is very specific. When will that research assignment be ready? When should the investigation take place? I think we might be able to use it as information just after 15 March to make new arrangements. Does the Prime Minister see this as an assignment of himself or as a shared mission of the Chamber and the Cabinet? I think that working together is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	As far as the first question is concerned, that is what I think is in the letter. Along different routes you come to the same conclusion. The letter states that the issues we want to involve in historical research should focus on the considerations that have played a role in determining the income element. Then you get a better understanding of what that was like and why they did it that way. This is not just about the 500 000 guilders but about the whole aspect of the budget, which we call the Financial Statute of the Royal House IA in the Law. Then I come to the second question. The term 'as soon as possible' has been somewhat loaded since the settlement of the Ukraine referendum, but in the absence of anything better, I would like to use that term again. I will try to avoid the criticism that I have experienced in that dossier, although I found my way of doing so highly justifiable. I understand that we do not want to get into the same discussion here. But I do... as soon as possible. The cabinet will ask these people to do so, but naturally feels supported by what the House of Representatives says about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	The latter is pleasant, because the House of Representatives can therefore share responsibility for the research. Bills have been announced. PvdA, SP, D66 and I also suspect GroenLinks and others would want to give a common direction to it if they do not already carry the pen together. Let us be honest: in the case of a subsequent cabinet negotiation, it should be possible for this to lead to something. I would ask the Prime Minister to say that in five months' time we will have more than enough time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	You want that on the table during formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	That's a possibility, but I'd be sorry if, if a cabinet was formed; I don't know where my party ends up, in the opposition or coalition...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	You know where you end up as a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	Next to you in that bench, I understand. But it can't be that you make appointments that you say again after six months: we had something in mind, but now something else comes out. So in concrete terms: can the research be completed well before 1 March? That could be the endeavor, couldn't it? It is a shared responsibility of cabinet and chamber, especially since election time is coming. It is intended to clarify along the income section what was invented both in the 1970s and 2008 to make those amounts as high as they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	I think the last paragraph on page 2 sums up that last point exactly. I see no light between what Mr Pechtold is saying now and what is at the bottom of page 2. It is a request from the cabinet, knowingly supported by the Chamber, to historians. It's not a joint committee. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a committee either. It's an investigation by historians into what happened. I take into account the various aspects mentioned. I'm trying to speed up. I also understand Mr Pechtold's wish to have this on the table in good time, so that the results can be weighed again. I understand that wish and I will consider it, but my first commitment is that we send the research assignment to the Chamber as soon as possible. If the Chamber does not hold a debate on this but calls me to say that it is good, we can proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	The Prime Minister just indicated that he didn't ask RTL if he could get the pieces because he didn't want RTL to feel pressured. I don't think he needs to worry about that. I think he could have those documents even during the debate if he made a friendly call. I have a question about the disclosure of the documents already mentioned by the Prime Minister in the letter. It is quoted, in my view, from two notes. The Prime Minister said he would like to make it public, but he wants to consult with the National Archives first to see if he can. What obstacles does the Prime Minister see in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	No, we have to be complete. I see two objections to taking a decision now on the publication of all the documents, so not only what is in the letter but all the documents we have seen, and of which we have a certain probability, but not with complete certainty, have reason to believe that these are the documents to which RTL refers. The first reason is that the National Archive is also about this of course. The second reason is that if we ask historians to investigate this, I think it is appropriate to ask those historians if it is appropriate for the investigation if all these documents are now made public or if it is better to do so afterwards. I'm relaxed about doing it afterwards or doing it now, but I really think I should discuss that with the historians. That seems only right to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	So it is also a question of timing. I assume the National Archive will simply comply with the Archive Act. On the basis of the Archive Act, you can already say whether this could become public or not. Then there is only the question of whether it is appropriate to do so at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	Of course, the Archive Act also knows its considerations and considerations. So it is not surprising to hear us with the National Archives about that. It was also suggested that all these pieces can now be sent to the Chamber by RTL, but RTL also does not have all those pieces. We've seen that, too. In my opinion, the journalist concerned has written himself to make as many notes as possible, because not all these pieces could be copied or taken. So we're gonna have to look at those original pieces. The question is, of course, how you deal with this in relation to the Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, we're all relaxed in that, but I think it's nice to ask the historians to look at what they think if we did this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think that this is how we will end up with that investigation, as the Prime Minister suggests. I do have one more question. In my opinion, I heard in an intermediate sense that the independence of that research is guaranteed. I want to confirm that here, because that is of course very important for this Chamber and for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	Let me be very specific: the answer to that question is yes. I consider the various comments made in the debate to be precise. As far as the question is concerned, I have just referred in my interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold to what is contained in the last paragraph of page 2 of the letter. A second aspect of the design is who you ask. I consider what has been said about this very carefully in the debate. I am quite honest in saying that I am not immediately inclined to agree with those who say that the Court of Auditors should do so. The reasons for this were also discussed in the debate, but I repeat that I am going to consider it and I do not yet have a definitive position on it. The third aspect, independence, I can make a full commitment here, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	I do not want to disturb the party, because I too am happy with a historical investigation, but that is not the core of what we are talking about today. I am pleased that there will be a historical investigation into the history of the composition of income components, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I am clear about that, because that will all provide clarity in the background, but it's about whether there was a deal or not and, if so, what that deal looked like. Of that deal top officials said: this can't be done, Bernhard's interference goes beyond all bounds and it can't be kept hidden from the House of Representatives. We need an investigation into that deal. I therefore strongly urge that, in addition to the historical research.................................................................................................................................................................................................. After all, that's what it's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	There was no tax deal. I have already said this a few times, but Mr Van Raak keeps referring to that. That deal wasn't there. There was a situation in the late 1960s, in the early 1970s, where there was indeed a need for an improvement in royal finances; let me say something more generous. That was linked to the fact that the costs of the palaces had risen enormously. For example, Soestdijk Palace was still private property at that time. There was no personalised benefit, there was a limited benefit to finance the royal function and there were virtually no income from the crown domain. All this led to an unsustainable situation. In this context, transparent decisions have been taken by our predecessors. It can also be seen in the explanatory notes on the draft laws and the amendment of the Constitution how the royal finances would be revised. Tax-freedom would be severely reduced, a person-specific benefit would be provided and what we would now call Article 1b and Article 2 would be covered by the cost of performing a royal function. In addition, Soestdijk Palace was purchased. All this had to result in a reduction in certain costs, such as the purchase of the palace, while at the same time pluses and minuses on the revenue side would result in an increase in the total amount of money available for the Royal House, in such a way that the situation in which capital was invested would be put to an end. That's what happened then. So there is a relationship between all these elements, but part of it assumes that it has been said: boys, wait a minute, you want me to pay property tax now, but then you have to compensate for that in my income. We have not been able to find any evidence of this. In the historical research, the precise decision-making process will be reviewed at that time, exactly in line with what is at the bottom of page 2. Members can all see how we have put it. That'll probably be about the research assignment, but I'll send it to the Chamber. But Mr Van Raak is looking for something we do not believe there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	Somewhere there's money being taken away, and somewhere else it's being deposited. That's what we've agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	Open! In the pleadings of explanatory notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr President, I was speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	The Prime Minister denies here in Parliament that there was a deal. RTL journalists have seen documents that are not public. It says that agreements have been made and that there has been a deal which, according to officials, was absolutely incorrect, but which would have been enforced by the late Prince Bernard. This interference not only led to feelings of displeasure among civil servants, but also, according to the government, to avoid a debate with Parliament. All this has nothing to do with a historical investigation into the composition of income components of members of the Royal House. I want to know if there was a deal or not. I want an independent body to look at the documents that RTL has also seen, but which are not public. That seems to me to be a good job for the Court of Auditors, which could have done so within one or two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	I heard Mr Vullings of the NOS on the radio this morning saying that it was going to be a game of words. It is now about the words "deal" and "relation." Mr Van Raak is simply trying to do harm by going on about this. I think his party is also opposed to the current state system and the Orange House. I referred to the situation in the late 1960s, in the early 1970s, and I said that there is a relationship between all these elements, which should ultimately lead to the resounding of royal finances. Mr Van Raak wants to reduce this to a deal between one element and the other. He can do that. I said exactly what I said about it in my letter. The bottom of page 2 is exactly what we want the historians to investigate. In my view, this is also an opportunity for Mr Van Raak to be fully involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr Van Raak, one final question on this. This question has already been raised in various forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'm asking the Prime Minister to behave a little. He shouldn't be here in the Lower House with all sorts of suspicions about secret agendas I might or might not have. I want the Prime Minister to take that back. I'm just asking questions, and I'm just doing my job here. Tax arrangements were made in 1973 and in the years before. It's called a deal. Somewhere money's been taken away, some money's come in. I want to be clear about that. That's my job as a Member of Parliament. All kinds of stories about the Prime Minister... he's got to know for himself, but I'm gonna stand back from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	I thought I was quoting from the SP election programme. I don't do that often, because there's not much in it that I like, not even this part, but I thought I'd do it right. Then to the point itself. Mr Van Raak refers to the relationship that would exist between...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	I co-wrote that election program!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	He hasn't read our election program at all! He didn't read it at all. Why don't you read our election program? That would be good for the Prime Minister. What's in there? It says that members of the Royal House simply have to pay taxes, like any Dutchman. It would be appropriate for the Prime Minister to simply implement a ruling made by the House of Representatives. Let us keep this debate a little up-to-date, I will also say to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr Van Raak is very excited. All I wanted to say in peace...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	And the Prime Minister must not provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	No, I won't provoke, no matter how attractive that is. The relationship between the different parts of the income of the Oranges is described in the explanatory notes of the draft laws 11848, ten thousand-so many and the Constitutional amendment. It's all in there. Mr Van Raak cooks that back to a deal. I object to that. I find that suggestive. That's my point. I believe I can base myself on these draft laws. I therefore believe that I have answered the questions concerning the design of historical research. I also dealt with the documents. I'll see if I had any other things in that chapter, because this is a big topic. No, I think I can get to the next theme. I come to the question of why I made announcements in the press conference from a conversation with the king. I found and felt I was right to do so. I will do so again in a similar case, although there will be no similar case. I'll explain what that's based on. In 2010 or 2011, information was published by the Council of State on the precise form of ministerial responsibility. He sees both taking responsibility for everything that affects the functioning of the king in his function as head of state, and also protecting the king where his function as a private person is concerned. It's about shielding the private domain. One of the things rightly mentioned in the Council of State information is the following. Rumouring through openness about why concrete behaviour can be countered. In fact, therefore, incorrect reporting must also be systematically contradicted on behalf of the members of the Royal House. I based it on that. If I had confined myself in the press conference to the role of the Prime Minister, as Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij and others suggested, it was only about the question: what did I know? Then the question would have lingered in the air if the king and his mother knew about this suggestive secret deal at the time. That would have been extremely damaging. I based myself on that information from the Council of State. It is not only my job to take responsibility for the king in his functioning as head of state, to bear the full ministerial responsibility for that and also to ensure that I protect the private domain. It is also my job to do this if there is a picture in the Netherlands that the king and his mother would know something that I personally said I know nothing about. If the image remains that the king and the previous queen may have known, it is extremely damaging. That is exactly what Herman Tjeenk Willink, the Vice-President of the Council of State, refers to in that information. So I thought and I thought it wise that I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	But not at a press conference, not in that way and certainly not with the literal quote: boy, I didn't know anything about it. I think it is a sought-after argument, because everything is being said and everything is being investigated. We are now treated to other behavior of Prince Bernhard in the palaces that people who still have responsibility within the family might know about. Are we going to ask if anyone knew about that? There's even criminal offences in there. So I think it's a thin line of reasoning. I challenge the Prime Minister to indicate when he has done so before at perhaps even more serious moments. Now, a few days later, he has to withdraw, bring in a historic committee and say: I don't really know myself and go back and find out. He has placed the king and the previous queen in a very vulnerable daylight. Because what if it turns out that Claus and Beatrix, it seems, were present at the meetings where Bernhard put the pressure on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	I fundamentally disagree with Mr Pechtold. It is a relevant discussion, because it is about defending the monarchy and ensuring that no unnecessary harm is done. It is my absolute conviction that there is quite a difference between the various examples mentioned by Mr Pechtold. That a reigning king knowingly uses a tax deal in which in a shadowy way the payment of capital taxes is compensated almost year by year in the income, is the image that arose on Friday after RTL brought out these messages. If only I had said that I didn't know anything about it, the question was right: oh yes, and what about the previous king and queen? That would have been very damaging to the family. I confirmed in the letter that no evidence of such a claim has been found. RTL also lets it go, because that doesn't talk about a compensation in the king's allowance anymore. Now it is about compensation in other elements of the royal benefit, not being the person-specific benefit itself. RTL has also moved on to another station. It's all right, but it's my job to protect the king and the previous queen from that sort of thing. That's part of my constitutional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	But I'm saying you didn't protect them. You put them in the middle of the line of fire. That's what happened. You cannot give me any example of you or your predecessors Balkenende and Kok in which this happened. I can't remember one time that something has been said about such a matter. If you say you had to say it in order to defend the further picture, we can now ask more questions. What did the king think of a particular part? And what did he think of the fact that the Secretary-General of Finance at the time thought the two amounts were very similar? What did he think of this, what did he think of that? Did he know sister or something? You could have covered it up by saying: ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised with my ministerial responsibility as Prime Minister; we are going to do an investigation and I will also ask those involved at that time about what they knew about it. It would have been quiet. Now you're quoting the king saying, "Oh, I didn't know anything about it, and neither did my mother." This is extremely vulnerable and I hope that the investigation will not reveal anything else. Otherwise, not the royal family, but you have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Again, I refer to my previous reply. I really disagree with Mr Pechtold. That is not how ministerial responsibility should be fulfilled. This would also be contrary to the view widely accepted in the Chamber in the 2011 budget handling of General Affairs regarding the role of the Prime Minister in the defence of the Royal House, in particular the one on the throne or those closest to it, in matters of public interest. It would have done a great deal of damage. If the image had lingered that I didn't know anything about it, that's the truth, and the king and the previous queen might have known all about it, even though they didn't know anything about it, it would have been very damaging. On these points, too, there is information from the Council of State. This is a state-of-the-art discussion and I really disagree with Mr Pechtold on that point. That is not my view of my office in such a matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	The Prime Minister just said in his speech that there is no deal. That's what he's reporting today. That's good. It is also a good thing that the Prime Minister here says that we must protect the royal family. But the question is whether he does that by saying that the king didn't do it and that his mother didn't know about it either. Or, as Mr Pechtold says, does this indeed put the royal family in a precarious situation before the investigation is completed? And in addition: is this new communication policy? Is the Prime Minister gonna do this more often? Can we expect that or is this a novu?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	With regard to the second element of the question, I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Pechtold. This is a special situation. It is a serious reproach that there would be a shady deal the king and the previous queen might have known about. You can't let that hang in the air for weeks. That would have done great harm to the king and his mother's reputation, and that would be totally unjustified, where it is not true, which they themselves have no knowledge of. Then we went on to figure it out and we couldn't find any evidence of it in the documents either. That was the second element in the letter before us today. But the question was this: did they know about it, including the suggestion that some kind of compensation would be given year after year in the Royal House's tax return for the unpaid property tax? I refer once again to the information provided by the Council of State. I think it is very useful, because it describes exactly how this should work. It also sets out exactly the task of the Prime Minister. It says that it's up to me, and it's up to me alone, to determine where that should or shouldn't happen. That may not be nice, but I am the only one who can determine from my position whether I say in such a case: this is in private domain and I am not saying anything about it. Or that I say: no, this is so important that I have to protect the members of the Royal House by telling them exactly what is going on. That's my job from my position, that's not because someone else couldn't. I thought and felt I should do that. It was too big for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	We've never seen this before. This is a revelation for us. So we can expect the Prime Minister to determine and apply this more often?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	Then my previous answer has not been clear. No, that's not the case. I am here on the compass of the widely appreciated information provided by the 2010 Council of State in the Chamber, which was provided with a cabinet response in May 2011 and dealt with here in the General Affairs budget in autumn 2011, which deals with the issue of privacy and ministerial responsibility. This concerns in particular the question of when an issue affects or does not affect the general interest. Furthermore, this information on the Prime Minister's task was based on the ministerial responsibility to ensure that no unnecessary damage is caused. That means very often that things that are in private domain will be protected by me. The Council of State's information is very clear about that because things are in the news, they are not yet relevant. I can make the assessment that an issue is very big, especially if, from my political role as Prime Minister, I have not only in my responsibility to the Royal House but also to answer the wider question whether I knew about it. If I were to answer that question and leave the suggestion hanging in the air that the king and the previous queen might have known that when they didn't, the damage would be incalculable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	I do not want to make the point too big, but now that it has come up and the Prime Minister also referred to my comment in the interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold, I think it is not so much the state-law issue as whether the Prime Minister has an discretion and discretion in that. I fully agree with him on that point. The same applies to the reference to the Council of State. The point is: is it effective in this case? That's for the Chamber to judge from its controlling role. Then you can say: it is vulnerable when you cannot yet say exactly what it is. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the use of this power is particularly effective if it really takes the cold out of the sky? In fact, even after that unveiling, there are still a lot of puzzle pieces lying around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	We need to separate two things. On the one hand, there is the question of how exactly you assess those archives. We hadn't seen it at the time. Mr Van der Staaij is quite right about that. We had to look at it back then. A quick scan was made of that and that led to the letter that lies here. There's going to be a historical investigation now. At that time, the question was whether it was known to the king or the previous queen that the suggested deal had actually taken place, so they would have known. They both didn't know anything about it. That doesn't raise the question of whether there was such a deal. By now, we know there isn't one. No, it was about whether they knew about it. Let me take a look at Mr Van der Staaij. We both love the monarchy very much. Suppose the Prime Minister had washed his hands in innocence and said "I don't know anything about it, but of course I can't say anything about the king and the previous queen, because I can't say anything about it." If I had left it hanging over the market for weeks, it would have caused serious damage. The Council of State is also aware of this: not to do it more often, but, in very special cases, not to choose to protect the private domain once, so that in the interests of the family and the House's standing, the lack of clarity about what they knew about the matter, because that was where the investigation was about............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	Sure, I can very well imagine that at the time it was a difficult consideration. However, we will also agree on the following. If anyone is shouting that they will have known about it, it is not necessarily up to the Prime Minister to give an immediate answer at a press conference. Otherwise, this is also an easy way to get pieces of information without providing definitive clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	It's even stronger. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. Information in 2011 is also very keen on this. Because something is in the publicity, it is not yet a matter for the Prime Minister to make statements from the ministerial responsibility. In fact, it's my first job to shield the private domain. That too is part of the ministerial responsibility. That is exactly what Mr Van der Staaij says. There are moments, however, and this is such a moment that there is such an incorrect coverage of such a large size... The atmosphere that existed was one of "a shadowy tax deal." This reached up to and including the idea that RTL didn't even suggest but immediately found out that this would be compensated annually. Again, RTL didn't say so, but everyone thought so at the time. That couldn't remain undisputed. If I had limited it to my knowledge and said nothing about the king and the former queen, I would have done great harm. Again, this doesn't mean anything about whether there was a deal in the early seventies. That's what we had to find out. We now have an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	I'll come back to the order of things. The Prime Minister is now saying there was no deal. Then how relevant was it to say he didn't know about it? If there was no deal, if that were off the table, the Prime Minister wouldn't have to make that whole announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think that's a crazy thought. I would have been asked if I knew about it. From my responsibility to the Chamber, I have such a question to answer immediately. That would be a normal question. I couldn't have said, "I'm diving." I should have said I didn't know about it. That's actually true: I didn't know about such an alleged deal. "Allegedly," because at that point, we had to figure out what was going on. At that point, the big question was whether the king and his mother might have known about it? I can't say anything about that, because that's the secret of Ten Bosch. This is true in almost all cases, but now it is only right that we should have a Council of State which produces good documents. He also did this in 2010-2011, when it was about informing on this issue and in particular about how you deal with the ministerial responsibility, including in protecting the private domain. I believe that at that time I had no choice but to clarify it in the interests of the king and the queen who had resigned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	The point is that the king is now in a discussion. The Prime Minister comes up with the claim that he didn't know anything about it. That could be a reason for RTL to show that he could have known or perhaps should have known. So it really is going to be a shady discussion, which could have been avoided. We could have avoided her if the Prime Minister had bitten his tongue. He could have come forward with the statement that there was no deal and that further research was being carried out to show this. If that is completely off the table, even that first remark, so whether or not the king knew about it, would have been completely irrelevant. If there was no deal, he couldn't have known about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	That was just my point in the debate with Mr Van der Staaij. I'm gonna tear that apart. I couldn't tell you there was no deal on that Friday, could I? We first had to study the pieces precisely to find out if something crazy happened to our predecessors, something we don't know about, which at least I don't know about and which the king and the queen didn't know about, so the alleged deal? Then the second question was whether there is a deal or not. It turns out there isn't. The first point, however, was whether they knew about it. I do not quite understand Mr Segers, because his suggestion is that I would have drawn the king into the political debate. Well, that seems pretty strong to me. I think that was due to the media coverage that had arisen. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this is not a reason to make statements from the talks, but in this particular case, combined with an alleged tax deal, the media attention was so dominant that the king himself was more than a subject of discussion. The whole of the Netherlands talked about it. I think it is my duty, also from the ministerial responsibility, to do everything possible, where they work terribly hard and do their best to serve the homeland, to prevent damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think the damage would have been prevented if the conclusion had been: there is no deal. Then the logical conclusion would have been...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	How could that have happened? Should I have waited two weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	The Prime Minister could have waited two weeks and indeed bite his tongue. If that suggestion and the accusation had been wiped off the table, there was never any question as to whether the king knew about it. Then the king would not have been part of a debate that he is now part of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	He was the center of that discussion from Monday when RTL came up with this. The question was, did he know about this? A shady deal would have been made in the early seventies not to pay capital taxes and to sneak in to compensate for that in income. In fact, the suggestion that RTL didn't give rise to but which of course immediately came after it, and that also makes perfect sense if such an image was created, was that it would be compensated every year. What if I said on Friday or Tuesday before or after that in the Chamber that I didn't know about it? I could not have avoided that question in Question Time, given the constitutional obligation to provide information under Rule 68. Then it would have taken us two weeks to see if there was a deal at all or not. Wouldn't I have left the king and the last queen in the wind for two weeks? Then the Chamber would have come to me, and she would have said to me, "You are doing enormous damage to the Orange House." Couldn't have. That is precisely what the Council of State's information is about, namely that in exceptional cases it is inevitable that I will also make public what is private because otherwise very harmful suggestions will continue to resonate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	In this Chamber, no one, not even I, ever asks questions about what the king, the queen or the queen-mother thinks of anything, because that doesn't matter at all. We are having a discussion with the Prime Minister. That is why it is very unfortunate that the Prime Minister not only tells us what members of the Royal House think of something but that he also quotes them: no, I didn't know about that, and neither did my mother. It raises a thousand questions that I can't ask because I don't want to. But outside the Chamber, too, a lot of people have further questions. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that his remarks have included Willem-Alexander, Máxima and Beatrix in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	That is a bit of the discussion I just had with Mr Segers, but by another route. I do not understand the suggestion that I would have involved the king in the political debate. There had been extensive media coverage of this whole issue since Monday. There was a mysterious deal. It was said: you have too much tax-free, we're going to limit it, but don't worry because we'll compensate for that in your income. This was followed by the fact that every year this would be taken into account in the tax return. That was gradually what all the Netherlands thought about our king and the previous queen. I got the question, did you know about it? In the press conference I could have dive for it, but in the room I could never have dive for it. On the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution, I should have replied to Mr Van Raak with all due conscience: no, I do not know about that. Then wasn't the next question that Mr. Van Raak and everyone here would have asked: what about the king and the previous queen? If I hadn't answered that question if she knew and let it float until we knew what RTL was based on, what those pieces were, and until we could establish that there is no deal, I would have done a great deal of damage to the king and the previous queen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	No. The Prime Minister says that, of course, we would like to know what the King, the Queen and the Queen-Mother think about this, while I began this interruption by saying that we never ask questions like this in the House of Representatives. I don't do that. Colleagues don't do that either. We don't. So the Prime Minister's assumption is wrong. Not only do I think that the Prime Minister's assumption is wrong, but I also think that he is trying to justify his mistake. I do not mind that we are all making mistakes, but I would find it a bad thing if in future we always hear a prime minister explaining the views of the king, the queen or the queen mother in the media or in parliament, because we have thousands of questions that we cannot and do not want to ask in terms of good decency. I'm just asking the Prime Minister not to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then I cannot serve Mr Van Raak, all the more so because his question contains a few suggestions that I do not share with him. First of all, he suggests in his question that this happens more often. As I outlined in the answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question, it is exceptional. In addition, the information provided by the Council of State provides for such a situation. I found and find it my job to bring that out when it happens. Then Mr Van Raak might not have asked, but at that moment 10 out of 17 million Dutch people say: oh, the Oranges use a shady tax deal. How good is it for our Head of State, to remain outside the political debate, to be above all suspicion, to work day and night for this country and to work for all of us, if we ensure that he gets that reputational damage? The House would have rightly blamed me for that. That is precisely what the State Council of Information from 2010, 2011 provides for. In these specific situations, it is precisely through this ministerial responsibility that things are opened up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	Finally, Mr Van Raak, because this is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	I have that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	No, the Prime Minister is exposing her finely where the problem lies with our monarchy in a democracy and the inconvenience that we feel about it. That is precisely why we have drawn up these rules. The prime minister is responsible and keeps the king, the queen and the queen mother out of the debate. We have arranged this because it is so sensitive and so difficult. I am giving the Prime Minister the opportunity to stop doing this in the near future, and I do not know how long he is still Prime Minister, because that makes the debate impossible for the Chamber, and it also makes the situation very difficult for the king, the queen and the queen mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	If it is my assessment as Prime Minister that a misunderstanding or ambiguity on certain issues would cause very serious damage to the standing of the monarch or his mother or other members of the Royal House, then I will, based on the broad consensus in the Chamber in 2011 on that information of the Council of State, in particular the ministerial responsibility, do again what I have done this time. That's my job. If I did not do so, Mr Van Raak would be right to stand on the interrupting microphone and say: Rutte, you are doing damage by not intervening now, by not telling us what is happening now. Sometimes I have to. Otherwise, the damage is too great. Before I go into a whole lot of other, more loose cases, I come to the second big issue: the allowance to the Crown Princess, Princess Amalia. It has actually already been discussed in the interrupting debates. I can't add much to it. In 2008, the Royal House Financial Statute Act was reviewed. At that time, I myself was the group chairman of the second opposition party in the Chamber. I, of course, also had a visit at that time from the General Affairs officials who were following up Mr Zalm's report, who had investigated it and had issued opinions on it. I found and believe that Jan Peter Balkenende, my predecessor, made sensible proposals for this. As far as I can remember, they received unanimous agreement in the Chamber. I believe that all 150 Members of Parliament agreed. In the discussion of the Royal House Financial Statute Act in 2008, again looked at the whole of the royal finances and the coherence between the different components. After that, of course, a few more things happened, but they did not get so much to the level of the benefit to the Crown Princess as to issues such as "what exactly falls under the different articles," "how do you deal with taxation costs" etc. At the core, the system has remained intact. That's what we've all done. There are also reasons for this, all of which are contained in the documents, for example in the explanatory notes to the legislative proposals in the early 1970s. That's when it started. So I would really like to argue for consistency. We agreed on this at the time, and there are good reasons for that. It's very inconsistent to want to change all that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Prime Minister was there, even though he was on this side. I was there then, too. We had that debate at the time, but that was very much about the system. The only reason why we were able to reach an agreement on the system and a clearer accountability of the costs of the Royal House was that we were then also limited to that system. That doesn't mean we can't have a discussion anymore. A budget is written every year and a debate is held every year. I just want to ask the Prime Minister whether he would find 1.5 million for a little princess of 18, eight times more than the Prime Minister himself deserves a reasonable sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	I don't think it's a level. I really don't think what Mr Van Raak is doing here is a level. The Royal House Financial Statute Act explicitly included the level of the constitutional allowance for the King's probable successor. It was in there. The SP voted for that. We all voted for it. What we are now showing according to the system is a look through what happens in five years when Princess Amalia is 18. There's an election coming up. I'm just saying how it feels: it's probably not right again. I'll make another wrong suggestion. I'm gonna misquote from the SP program again. But I can't escape the impression that that's a part of this. I think it's really weak. I don't think it's level. You can't say unanimously in 2008 "that's how we do it" and when it materializes say "we don't like it anymore." Seriously, we can't work like this. Consistency, Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	We can't work like this. That's right. If very many groups in the House of Representatives say that a certain fee is too high and we also have no clear understanding of why that remuneration is so and what exactly is done with that remuneration and the Prime Minister does not give us an insight into it, then the Prime Minister forbids us to have an opinion on it and to have a debate on it. I don't like that at all, because that's not gonna do us any good. This means that a debate with the Prime Minister is not possible either. He's closing that door. Then we'll just have to have that debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	I can't forbid the Chamber from doing anything. I'm not even a member of the Chamber. We have a dualist system. I'm a guest here. I'm just giving an observation, which is that... I was once a member of this Chamber and I also agreed to that revision of the Wfskh. Including the level of benefit, Mr Van Raak! Including the amount of benefit! The only thing I'm pleading for is not to talk about Princess Amalia and the benefit like this. I'll say, guys, let's just... if there's one finger pointing at that benefit level right now, at least acknowledge that there's four fingers pointing at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	Look, this is the problem. We have a monarchy in a democracy. That's hard. The only way we can do that is to have a prime minister in charge and a parliament that can debate it. So if we cannot have a debate in this Chamber about a princess' compensation and if we cannot find that 1.5 million is too much, then it will stop. If we cannot have a serious debate about the Royal House and the costs of the Royal House, it will stop. Then there is no point in this debate. But that only damages the Royal House, because that debate is being held everywhere. And rightly so!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	Of course, we can have a debate on everything. I only object to the way Mr Van Raak started his question: yes, a girl of that age, this and that. He does that while he himself has agreed to what lies here. I would like at least to hear a start on recognition. It would help me to have that debate more open when he says: boys, we have indeed decided that together, but I think that is different now. Or: I see it differently. That would help me to understand that debate. He does not draw that consequence, and I think that is a populism, Mr President! I'm gonna distance myself from that. I just wanted to say that. I would like to go with Mr Van Raak... Well, I will finish the answer further. There have been very good reasons, both in the 1970s and in the review of the Wfskh. I have already said that it has been unanimously accepted.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That has to do with all sorts of things. From the age of 18...She doesn't get it now either; it's for in five years. It's a look-through. In five years' time, she will have to take into account the succession of the kingship. She's not gonna do anything else. She'll be a full-time heir to the throne. It has been said by our predecessors that that position requires a certain degree of independence, as well as preparing for kingship. We know from Queen Wilhelmina that you can become head of state in the Netherlands at the age of 18. We all hope that Amalia will be spared in order to be able to do so, but it is all possible in the event of special circumstances. She should be able to follow up at any time. Financial independence and the need to prepare for the ascension of the throne are arguments that our predecessors have mentioned. I advocate consistency. It is not the first time that this has been discussed since 2008 that we should immediately call out: then we said this, but now we actually find that. That's my objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr Van Raak, this has really been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	I note that the Prime Minister is in the election stand, but I would like to try to have a serious debate on this. He's speaking to me again. We agreed on the system at the time. That was why there was room-wide support. This does not mean that there can be no longer discussion in the future, nor does it mean that there can be no discussion of amounts. The Prime Minister would have been very helpful to us if he had not left it in a statement in the budget, but if he had also sought a little more support, some more explanation and, for example, indicated what the 1.5 million is now being spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	That's all in there. It says exactly what the A component is and what the B component is. All this is described in the budget. I'm sure it's my job to defend that. That's what I do here. The only appeal I make to Mr Van Raak and others is to help me with that. After all, we all decided this in 2008. I was there too, and if I wasn't there myself, and so are some of you, at least our predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	Of course, what happened to Mr Van Raak is not going to happen to me now. "I was there; we had all the arguments; we and our predecessors looked at them carefully then and there were indeed arguments for doing so." Well, I hope I now have a free pass and then ask a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	Well, it helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	This cabinet, under Rutte's leadership in four years, has been sent to the Chamber for a much longer period of time from 2008 onwards, with three laws to limit top incomes in the public sector in this country. WNT1 so hot such a law then wasn't finished or WNT2 came over and then WNT3. What did we do with that? Especially in view of the crisis and the hassle with the banks, with housing corporations, with doctors and elsewhere in the public and semi-public sector, we felt that the top incomes in these sectors and even in sectors should be controlled a little further. This Prime Minister has put forward restrictive proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	And the WNT stands for Wet norming top incomes, for those who may not know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr President, I had said that properly and then I started to shorten them. My question is: can you talk now, in 2016, with another five years of time, and I am glad that the PvdA feels the same way about it in peace and quiet that we find a little bit of money of 1.5 million, with 2.5 tonnes of tax-free pocket money in it? It is the Prime Minister who always says in debates here: 80% of the Dutch population agrees with me that this, 80% of the Dutch population, agrees with me that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	That feels good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	... and now I say: 80% of the Dutch population agrees with Mr Van Raak's somewhat rough wording and with my very careful wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	It can never be both at the same time. I know that D66 and the SP are having pleasant conversations about cooperation. No, but I couldn't resist. However, I would like to refer to the issue that is being raised here. Of course you can have that debate. I find the link to the WNT inappropriate, because we are dealing here with someone who cannot choose to do this job or enter business. For that WNT there is absolutely a defense, namely that in the public domain, where people can make all kinds of other choices, you must of course set limits to the remuneration and that the differences between the workplace and the top should not be too great. Those are, roughly speaking, the considerations behind those laws on the normalization of top incomes; I'm doing them a little short right now. You can't apply those laws to a crown princess who has no other choice. She has been the heir to the throne since she was born. She can't even say no. She's legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yeah, but then... she's automatic. There's no discussion at all. When her father stops or dies, she automatically becomes the next queen. She doesn't have a choice. That is the consideration that has been made. She's the heir to the throne. That is an advantage, by the way, that we do not always have discussions about who will be the next head of state. But that has been the consideration of our predecessors. I've been disturbed by it for the past few days. Can I be honest with you? I would like to say that we have a little bit of a runaway from the responsibility for decisions that we have taken together. Maybe I'm a little old-fashioned in there, but she's just like that. If we have taken those decisions together and if we have a basis for that, then we should all have a little bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	It's every time that cute Rutte mix of half indignation and putting the Chamber like a bunch of whiny bitches, but meanwhile don't want to do anything and especially don't want to think about something that's in a different light. Who's forcing someone to become something? Look at the history in the countries around us, look at our own history! There have been heirs who fell in love with a married woman and said, "Dear brother or sister, will you please do it for me?" Look at the other side of the pond, to the United Kingdom. Such things have happened to the Belgians, but also in the Netherlands. You know that when you have a little historical awareness. There's nothing mandatory. That would be terrible! It would fall directly under international human rights if you suddenly had such a crown imposed on your head by your cradle when you were 18. Come on! No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	It just doesn't make any sense what you're saying. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	It may be the official crown succession, but you always have a line. Someone can always say "thank you." The whole family can thank you for the honor. Then we have another issue. I am talking about the social image, about support for an institution that, from the Middle Ages, from a kind of fairy tale atmosphere, we are trying to give a new role in the 21st century in the field of trade relations and national unity. Okay, there's a majority for that, too, but is it due to such a fee? Contrary to the Prime Minister's fearful attitude, I think it is careful to say five years before this is the case that one and a half million and a half seems to us a little broad. When it comes to the security issues of the members of the Royal House, no one ever asks a question about the costs. When it comes to a secretariat or transport, we are not dimming the question of whether it should be first class or with our own aircraft. No! I am talking about a bag of two and a half tonnes of tax-free money. Let me try to offer an opening. Surely you could get a slow rise from 18 years of age, from the moment it becomes clear, appropriate to the different ages? Then we have a debate, but the Prime Minister's attitude is always loudly saying no, saying that the Chamber once made a decision and then stopping thinking. That's just not how I'm in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	But words do have their meaning. Listen to what Mr. Pechtold just said: pocket money! A quarter of a million pocket money. And the whole of the Netherlands thinks: yes, that's crazy, too. That is the 80% that Mr Pechtold himself did not mention. Mr Van Raak does not allow me to make any suggestions about what might be behind this, and so I am pushing that thought away now, but then I think, of course, would it be possible for elections to come, which means that we are going to politicise everything, even the Royal House? Mr. Pechtold started it. 80% agree with him, he says. He's talking about an allowance from the Crown Princess. About the allowance! Can you hear what you're saying, Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	The allowance! While we've agreed to do so here as the House of Representatives. It has a constitutionally established function, namely heir to the throne! It is not at all that she... Yes, of course everyone has a choice in the end, but if you are born in this family as the oldest of the family and if the Constitution states that you are the heir to the throne, it is quite something to say: figure it out, because I am not doing it. Of course, that is not a real option at all. It may be formal, but it is not a real option. That has also been taken into account. It has been said that there is nothing else she can do. This is her job. She is full-time the next queen of the Netherlands. She'll have to prepare for that. There have been agreements on the compensation that goes with it. I don't think we should be talking about pocket money then. We took decisions on it for good reasons, reconfirmed in 2008. Then we'll have to stand up for that, and we'll have to put it out there. Then we'll do no harm over the back of a crown princess. I really object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	I think I'm gonna take over a little more Van Raak. I like that, because you'll get a little more work done. At least you can see the Prime Minister's getting annoyed. I always like that, because then his impotence is only clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm defending it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	And I'm defending "pocket money." 1.2 million will be allocated to maintain a secretariat. Do you know what you can do for 1.2 million to rent properties and hire people around you? In addition, there are two and a half tonnes of duty-free. Translated to the common Dutchman that is €500,000 gross income. All other costs were reimbursed through the 1.2 million. Then I'll call it pocket money for an 18-year-old. Everyone will understand that only daily life will have to be paid for. Everything else is in the rest: the security, the secretariat, the transport, the dresses and the things that are needed. Then you can tell me why we can give that to an 18-year-old in 2021. If you are not prepared to let go of that thought and, precisely for the stability and future-lookingness of a royal family, to consider how that could lead to more acceptance among the population, then you are the one who is damaging, not us and not even Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think this is pure populism. Mr Pechtold and all of us should stand for the decisions we are taking here. Only a few years ago we re-established these levels of benefit here. Everyone did, 150 MPs. There's a story behind that, too; I'm just sketching that. And what does Mr. Pechtold do? First he says, "Rutte, you're responsible for ensuring that the royal family doesn't get hurt and that the reputation stays high." Next, no, he runs away like a Zoef de Haas from the decision he made here in 2008 and talks about pocket money for the Crown Princess. I think this is pure populism. The difference with Mr Wilders is that he is often consistent in those views. Mr Pechtold is not consistent now, because he himself supported this in 2008. I would like him on my side to explain to the Netherlands why we then made those decisions. That would be real rather than saying, now that the decision is being implemented, that I do not like it, the Netherlands does not understand this. No, it is our job to explain difficult decisions to the Netherlands and we can do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	A prime minister who says "pleasure" to new people in this country... New ones, what do I say: just Turkish Dutch. A prime minister who says "pleasure" and then says "look, 90% of the population is behind me"; that's populist. Maybe in the last few years I've cheated on the populist Rutte a little too much. This is an unthinking, unhistorically aware and certainly not forward-looking Prime Minister who is laughing out of here. We have said about AOW people that the retirement age suddenly rises to 67. Due to changing circumstances for homeowners, for landlords and for people with a contract of employment, we make decisions here to adapt their lives. That is what we stand for, because we say that it fits the time frame, that something must be done about it. This is exactly what this is about. It's the prime minister who's making it big. It's the prime minister who makes it political. It is the Prime Minister who is doing the downside of populism a huge service in this way. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Pechtold has absolutely the gift of the word. I appreciate him for that, too. I appreciate him as a person at all, but this is where he's completely wrong. We are taking a decision here, supported by arguments. We'll know what the consequences will be. And what does part of the Chamber do, at least Mr Pechtold? He runs like a Zoef de Haas away from his own responsibility. He should stand here like a guy and explain why he thought this was justified in 2008. I'll do that. He won't. That draws the difference between us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	I can support the Prime Minister 100%. I was there too, I also spoke and I also saw that both Mr Van Raak and Mr Pechtold simply raised their hands when it really mattered, namely when that law was adopted. We established that law precisely, because we wanted to prevent what is happening now, namely that we make a number of that kind of amounts every year. I have to say that it has gone well for a long time. In the 1970s, former Prime Minister De Jong started it. In the years around 2008 this was adjusted by then Prime Minister Balkenende. It worked well for a long time. Apparently not anymore. Is it enough to go through the various political groups once every few years as Prime Minister to see what is going on in terms of acceptance? Is action not already needed to prevent this kind of scenes, including the Prime Minister's side, for example in a new parliament, to include new representatives of the people in this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	I have heard very well what Mr Van der Staaij said about this. I'd definitely like to consider that for myself. But I don't want to leave room for that right now. Because if I leave room in this debate for this generally very reasonable idea that you sometimes look more fundamentally at these aspects, I will give a free pass to those who run away from an unhindered populism for their responsibility. I don't want to. I don't want to give them that chance. I am defending what we have decided, but I also, of course, think that the constant discussions about the levels of benefits and everything else, sometimes calls for a look at them again. But I do not want to have that discussion right now, because that is a kind of justification for this discussion about what is in the budget about Princess Amalia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	GroenLinks shares the views of the political groups that question the level of benefits, but there is another aspect to this. This is about transparency about how it is spent. Of course, it would be easier to explain what the B component of the benefit is spent on. Now all we know is what it's not spent on, but what it is, we don't know. Is the Prime Minister prepared to clarify this, to make an inventory of it, so that everyone can see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	We have Article 41 of the Constitution. That is quite clear about it. Of the B component within Article 1, the constitutional benefits, I can say without harming Article 41 of the Constitution, which is intended for the personal and material expenses of a high private character. Then you should think in particular of two groups. In the first place to the highest people at the court, the senior staff in good Dutch. Secondly, people who work directly for the people who are eligible for the B component in, for example, the residences. That's what the B component's for. I am not going to give any further specification, because the Constitution is clear about that. Article 41 also determines exactly the relationship between the Chamber, the Court and the Prime Minister with regard to the use of these funds. But that is on the main lines that the B component is intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	So we are talking about the salaries of some specific employees. But that's still quite a question. If it is not transparent, that leads to question marks. I don't think that's gonna help anyone. The Prime Minister says the law is obstructing it. We make laws here ourselves. If we see that the lack of transparency causes people to have doubts, should it not be a prime minister's duty to see how we can ensure that this gloom disappears?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	I would also like to draw attention to Parliament's considerations and considerations when Article 41 was established. There's a background to that. It was considered important that the King should have the space to make choices about his home, taking into account the public interest of course. It was said then, and I think that is also wise of the legislator at that time, our predecessors, that otherwise he cannot give his own interpretation of kingship. So I can mention some of the elements that are included, but if we want full transparency about this, we really do damage to Article 41 of the Constitution. That is exactly what the Council of State's information is about, which is now included in the budget documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	Not at this point, I hope, Mr Van Raak. If we don't, we're gonna keep going in circles. Everything has been said about it, I have the impression. Unless you have a really new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	Got it! Is the increase in AOW age, the limitation of WW or even the reduction of top incomes in the public and semi-public sector, according to the Prime Minister's populism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	This is gonna be a game of words. Maybe Mr Van Raak should just ask what he wants to ask me. But no yes/no questions. Mr Pauw does the same every night, and I see you all going along with it. I would advise you all, Mr Pechtold, to stop doing so. Don't do it here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	The Prime Minister says that a discussion on the level of income of the members of the Royal House is populist. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he believes that all these other issues are also populist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	This is not a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	Then Mr Van Raak misunderstood me. I didn't say that. Of course you can talk about anything and you can debate everything. However, I was concerned about the context. The context was one of ridiculing, of putting away, of running away from your responsibility as MPs. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	I didn't make fun of anyone today. Unfortunately, I cannot say that about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'm glad. There is another question from the CDA about the structure of the amounts in the budget and their justification. As you know, since 2010, the budget, following Mr Zalm's report, consists of three articles: constitutional payments, functional expenditure and congested expenditure. I have just said something about consistency with Article 41 of the Constitution. I now come to the tax exemptions. I can only confirm what was said in the debate on the matter, namely that we do not intend to initiate such a constitutional change. We await what the Chamber will do and will then give our views on this at regular intervals. It has been asked whether there are any examples of why a distinction is made between private income and functional income in relation to taxes. The main rule is that the members of the Royal House pay tax, but there are a few exceptions. The reason for the exception to the King's tax obligation lies in the unique character of his office. The Constitution states that the King does not pay taxes on the benefit he receives. The assets serving in the performance of the duties are also free of personal taxes. What the King or his suspected successor obtains under inheritance law or by gift from a member of the Royal House is also free from rights of succession, transfer and gift. There's a lot of thought about that, too. In this context, I can say, among other things, that the legislator intended to make a difference between gift and inheritance tax on the one hand and income tax on the other hand and capital yield tax on the other. This has been done on the basis that the levy of inheritance tax would affect capital, while the capital yield tax is expected to be very low in the meantime, the interest rate is very low from the yield, the return on capital, and therefore does not affect the capital itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u139	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, but this is an explanation of the law. My question was precisely why it is still necessary now that all the functional costs are borne by the State. Why does that power need to be maintained? I haven't heard an argument for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u140	I've argued that before here in the Chamber. That is because the legislator at the time intended, also in the context of the new budget, in which Articles 1b and 2 were gradually established, that for the performance of the royal function a high-level family at the head of the State.................................................................................................................................................................................... If you were to tax all that, either the ability to interpene, or those aspects that are obtained by inheritance or donation if you do not have an exemption from personal taxes, would be undermined. That was the argument for the legislator. I also think that this is logical, and that is also linked to what many here have argued, namely that it is of course not just a family. It's not the Jansen family from down the street. It is our King and he has a special position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u141	It's all based on the idea that the power must be maintained. Why that thought has to be so dominant, I still don't get it. Why should the assets be maintained if everything that is functional is reimbursed by the State and if a whole number of elements are housed in foundations? So it's purely Shell stock or something that's private. Why does that have to be maintained? What does the State have to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u142	It only concerns what the King passes on to his successor. However, I would like my officials to advise me on this. I think Mr Recourt is making it a little too broad by including Shell's shares. There are two aspects to the asset exemption. It's about the golden carriage, for example. This is covered by the assets which are of service to the performance of the function. If you pass it on, you wouldn't have to pay any capital taxes. They should be free of personal taxes. The exemption also looks at what the King transmits under inheritance law or by gift to his suspected successor or by gift from a member of the Royal House. I'm gonna let you give me some official advice on that. I see my officials are kicking ass. Then I come to the question of whether the Heritage Inspectorate wrongly granted the permit in the matter of the painting Boschbrand of Councils Saleh. No, the Erfgoedinspectie had the application data evaluated by an auction house. That's not unusual. It also carried out a test to assess whether it was a legally protected cultural property under the then Wbc and the UNESCO Convention of 1970. It was also examined whether it might have been stolen and where it was found in the database of INTERPOL. That test led to the granting of the licence. There has been no special procedure for this and, as I have been informed, no accelerated procedure. Is there any state property? No. The correspondence shows that the painter does the work out of respect and gratitude to the king. He also wanted to hand that work over to the king personally. All further documentation shows that the work was considered to be part of the king's private collection and his heirs. The State also knew of the donation to the king in 1851. The painting was donated through the Minister of Colonies to the King. It can also be seen that since then the property has never been called into question at all, although this work and its ownership were well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u143	No one knew where it was; it was rolled up in a depravable state somewhere in an attic. That seems to me to be a rather rosy presentation of things. In the middle of the nineteenth century, Raden Saleh received an annual allowance from the Ministry of Colonies, which is taxpayers' money. If the Prime Minister gets a present somewhere now, he will be able to drink a bottle of wine, then he will put it here in the closets or in the museum, but he has not received it as a private person. Even then, it was. If the king had paid that allowance out of his own pocket for 50 years, it would have been something else. It will remain debatable in the light of the situation more than 150 years ago, but I am amazed at the ease with which an export licence has now been granted. I really recommend that the Prime Minister take another look at these documents. That permit was granted within a few days. Normally, it takes weeks for you to get something like that. Have all the tests been followed carefully? It was the last work, it was a monumental work and we now own nothing of this artist in this country in a public collection. I think this is way too easy. I'm glad I asked questions with the PvdA to figure this out, but I'm asking the Prime Minister for something else. Is he prepared to look into all the issues relating to my own and my own private property or state property? I really hate that this painting has been sold privately and now somewhere in another museum, far away, unattainable to Dutch people, is showing off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u144	First in a general sense. After six years in this position, my real observation is that the Royal House is very careful about this and looks at what goods, for example, should be housed in one of the managed foundations. It is therefore always considered whether it is state property, private property or whether it should be housed in a foundation. The inventory lists of the objects in the possession of the State are also present at the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. So it's not like what's not from the State would automatically be private property. It is precisely the distinction between state property, private property and foundation that is needed to distinguish one from the other. I have the following to say about the painting itself. That's good, because that affects both our profession, art history and history. In 1847 the painter announced that he would donate a painting in preparation. In the meantime, we know that painting as "Boschbrand." The painting signed in 1849 was donated by the painter to his son, King William III, after the death of King William II. That's documented, too. In 1851, four other works of Raden Saleh were sold to King Willem II at public auction. The proceeds of this were for the benefit of the estate. Two other works donated by the painter were donated to the Indonesian President by Queen Juliana in 1970 on the occasion of a state visit from her private collection. The correspondence about the donation by Saleh to King Willem II and King Willem III respectively and the correspondence about the donation in 1970 to the Indonesian President confirm that this concerns private property. This also applies to the documentation on the lending of works for exhibitions in 1883 and, as Mr Pechtold knows, in 1894. The Juliana heirs have chosen to have this important painting restored. Then it was sold to the National Museum of Singapore. It's quite a bit; it hangs there now as a kind of main work. It is the eye-catcher of the museum and is permanently exhibited. It was the last work of Saleh that was in this private collection. Other works by this artist can be seen in Dutch museums. There are still works of art in the Netherlands by the painter. So the answer to the question of whether it belonged to the family is yes. Did you let the family sell it? Yes. I have just given the answer about the Heritage Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u145	Was it from the family? For me, that is still the question, but if we answer that question yes, it is difficult to judge the customary law of 1851 in 2016 and the Prime Minister himself says that this is now hanging like a showpiece. What have we agreed on about important work that is located in the Netherlands, including in private property? We have a sort of war list anyway: if something like the Jan Six of Rembrandt could come on the market, we will intervene to preserve it for the Netherlands. In this case, this choice was simply not granted to museums, institutions and public collections. It was sold privately. It was restored because it was so bad it wasn't possible to sell otherwise. We can't take it back. The Dutch will have to buy a ticket to Singapore to look at that painting, but I think this is a careless procedure. I am glad that we have now asked these questions. In dealing with the cultural budget, we will have to come back to this, but here too I ask for care. The Atlas, with the plates of Utrecht, was sold privately from the basement. The contract states that three years should not be communicated about it. Such a thing could be private property. The fact that Juliana presents two of these things from supposed private property during a state visit in the 1970s already indicates that this is a shaky line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u146	Here is a little "the first law of Zijlstra": we have water, we put mud in it and then it becomes cloudy. I really think that Mr Pechtold is giving the wrong impression here. I just gave the whole answer about Saleh's work. I think that answer remains: yes, they were allowed to sell it; yes, it was theirs; yes, that has gone carefully. The Atlas was purchased in 1870 by Prince Henry, the brother of King William III. Since then, the Atlas has been part of the family's art heritage. With this, the Atlas belonged to the legacy of Princess Juliana. An investigation has been carried out into the possible interest of relevant public institutions in the Utrecht region. That didn't lead to a transaction. Next, the Atlas was sold to a leading Dutch private collection, under the condition that the work, which, as we all know, consists of a lot of drawings, would stay together in the Netherlands for a long time. Parts of the Atlas are now also on display in the Netherlands. So let me conclude very clearly that the heirs of Princess Juliana were not obliged to transfer the works in question to the State or to Dutch museum institutions or to give the proceeds of the sale, as happened with the sale of other pieces from the estate in 2011. The work of Saleh was not on the list that belongs to the Law on the Conservation of Cultural Property. The export licence was therefore rightly granted. Those are the facts. If, according to Mr Pechtold, this is not careful, I really disagree with it on the basis of this whole set of facts. He's still gonna talk about that with my colleague from Culture. He'll be free to do that, but he'll give him the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u148	Unfortunately, it often starts with a riot. The cabinet then denies it. I am not saying that, for example, I am challenging property rights with regard to the Atlas. All I'm saying is that in terms of our cultural heritage, we need to know that sometimes not everything on a list is also known. I want a more careful and transparent procedure. Fortunately, we have now regulated this well in the treatment of the Heritage Act last year. In this way, perhaps not some curator of an institution in the Utrecht region will think: we do not think that is important. I want this to be done on the basis of a national assessment, which we handle carefully. I know other examples, but we will not deal with them here. I am really in favour of dealing with it more carefully so that we can avoid fuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u149	I really object to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u150	Especially if you drop the name Zijlstra, I'd only talk to him one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u151	I really object to that conclusion. Why is that? Because on the basis of the facts I have put down here, I really believe that I can maintain that all this has been done carefully. There is now a suggestion that it has not gone very carefully. Then I want to hear the name and the number, but I didn't hear it. I insist that this has been done carefully. A question has also been asked about the golden carriage. What's all that gonna cost? I have reported to the Chamber, which refers to Article 41 of the Constitution, that I felt that I should not inform the Chamber about this, but that I would ask the Council of State for advice. That's what happened. The Council of State reports that the Constitution provides that the acts and expenditure covered by Articles 1 and 2 of the King's budget shall not be public unless damage is caused to the public interest. This also means that no information is in principle provided on the level of actual expenditure. That is without prejudice to the King's ability to do so himself. There are more things that play within the Royal House, about which the king himself provides information to the public. I refer, for example, to the annual review of the Royal House. So that's what the king can do. In view of the public's great interest in the carriages and also because of their historical value, especially their visibility at a special time as Princess' Day, the king is happy to involve the public in this project with regard to our historical heritage. In that context, the stable master mentioned an amount on behalf of the king, and from his expertise. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u152	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u153	Yeah, so much for this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u154	I thank the Prime Minister for the explanation. What he says about Article 41 of the Constitution is well known. But if that is the answer to the question of why it was not put in the budget sent to the Chamber, which is constitutionally correct, can the Prime Minister imagine that it is very confusing for people when it is referred to on the website of the Royal House? That makes people think: why is it placed there, but not here? Is there any way to tie it up in the future? I find it very confusing and I notice that there is unnecessary discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u155	Okay, I respect that. On the other hand, I really do want to avoid undermining Article 41 of the Constitution. The essence of that article is that the king establishes his House with due regard for the public interest. I have just explained this in another interrupting debate. That core needs to stay intact. I also relied on that when I said that I was not going to give that information, because then I'm going to cross the bridge. If I do, I have no reason why I should not mention other elements covered by Article 41 of the Constitution. I did say at the time that I would ask the Council of State for advice. That confirms my point of view. But of course the king can also make his own decisions. He can decide, not because of the budget, but because there is public interest, as people are interested in the beautiful tradition of Prince's Day and in the carriages. When we passed from the golden carriage to the glass carriage.... sorry, I keep saying by mistake "silver carriage"................................................................................................................................................................... He decided to do that at some point, and he can do that. That's totally open to him. It also fits in with the annual report of the Royal House. I think that is justified, but I also accept that this may create confusion. Why not in the budget, but in the annual report? I'm gonna have to explain that right all the time, and I will. I would like to explain why it was in the annual report, but not in the budget. I really do not want to undermine Article 41 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u156	I understand the answer, of course, from a constitutional point of view. But I have one last question. Once the king has made that known and has put it in the public domain, is there no way to get it right by including it in the budget? After all, the king chose it himself. In this way, the provision of information will be levelled. It's just a question. Maybe it can't be state law, but I'm interested in it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u157	I would be very careful not to do this under state law, because the king will otherwise... No, let me rephrase it. If you put more and more elements in the budget mirrored along that road because they have been mentioned in another place, then the "appetite" to give insight into things that people find interesting and that are associated with the Royal Stables and Princess Day, will be rather diminishing, I think. I think we should watch for that. I think we should keep Article 41 pure. Then the king has the space to do something with this type of public information. He has his own channels for that. In this case it was the stable master, but it can also be published in the annual report. I fully agree with Mrs van der Burg that it is my job to keep explaining this. I have to point that out: I understand the confusion, but this is the reason. Then one will think: oh yes, that is the reason. Article 41 of the Constitution really needs some explanation; I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u158	I'll turn it around anyway. The Prime Minister states that the King may consider what he may and may not disclose. The glass coach is mentioned on the website, but we don't talk about the golden carriage. The Green Draeck has been mentioned again. We are not always concerned about the individual amount, but about creating transparency. Shouldn't the Prime Minister himself take responsibility for protecting the royal family, as he just said about the tax deal that isn't there? Shouldn't he also decide on this subject to make the information transparent to a certain extent in order to protect the royal family? Then we don't have that discussion every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u159	No, because then I'm gonna run out of Article 41 of the Constitution. That article came in for a very good reason. With this we limit the king's space to give a personal meaning to the kingship. This is precisely one of the backgrounds referred to by the legislator in Article 41 of the Constitution. On the other hand, I think it is very good that the king makes his own choices. That is his own consideration at some point, for which I, of course, assume the ministerial responsibility. I do that in advance, because I think that's only positive. On certain matters of great public interest, he really makes his own choices. What pictures are coming out? What does the Royal House's annual report look like? In it he puts his personal accents very strongly. The same applies to this issue. I really think we should leave that to him. We should not draw that directly into the discussion of Article 1b or Article 2 of the budget. The Green Draeck is of course something else. The Green Draeck will certainly be back in the budget. However, this issue is directly covered by Article 41 of the Constitution. So I am not in favour of doing so, because then we will really be running out of Article 41 of the Constitution one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u160	The Prime Minister is telling us exactly where it is, because the De Groene Draeck and the glass coach are something else. In our opinion, it should be equalized to a certain size. If it is made transparent, you avoid a lot of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u161	The golden carriage is an instrument in the performance of the royal function. The Green Draeck is a state gift. It is another thing, because the Green Draeck does not perform any other function in public other than that you occasionally watch it sail. He's further for private use, and that's where the sensitivity is. It's a gift from the state. Let us not repeat this whole discussion; I am glad we have not discussed it yet. The carriages are directly part of the performance of the royal function and are therefore directly subject to Article 41 of the Constitution. So there really is a difference with the Green Draeck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u162	I'm very curious to see how far you're going with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u163	I'm a long way. I have a few more questions to answer. Also in the summer of 2017, Noordeinde Palace and the Royal Stables will be opened to the public. The King and the Royal House Service take advantage of the experience gained in 2016. And yes, also the next cabinet that I may lead will be captured on camera. That will take place at Noordeinde Palace. When it comes to opening up the crypt, I fully endorse the debate on the interruption with Mr Recourt. I think we're really going a step too far. So I don't want to argue in favour of that. A more structural opening of the royal palaces has been requested. Much has already been opened up: the Royal Palace in Amsterdam, the former town hall, has a public museum function and is accessible. We've just talked about the Noordeinde Palace and the Royal Stables. The Orange Room of the Palace House of Bosch Mr Pechtold knows all about it has been open for a while. Via Google Street View you can see the Royal Palace in Amsterdam, the Orange Room, Noordeinde Palace, the Royal House Archive and the Royal Stables. The Royal House Archive and the Royal Stal Department are both part of the complex Noordeinde Palace and are accessible throughout the year, of course under conditions. The Cabinet of the King in The Hague, the old building of Groen van Prinsterer, Thorbecke waved from the Tower to his political opponent who sat in the current building of the Cabinet of the King... is opened annually on Open Monument Day and on special occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u164	Greetings; it's beautiful. House ten Bosch has been an idea from the Chamber, among other things expressed by me. I think it's really good. I get the first reaction, the first feeling at the tomb, but I didn't talk about opening up. I was talking about a digital tour, just like the Prime Minister mentioned on other matters. Look at Père-Lachaise, the cemetery. You can just walk over that and there's a lot of interest in that. There are painters, statesmen, thinkers, there are lots of things. You can even get to Napoleon's tomb. It's being rebuilt in Delft. I'm gonna ask for a pass at the place, just to think, in close consultation with the family. I am not talking about opening up so that the Association of Housewives can walk past it. I'm talking about showing it as a national consciousness, in digital form. Now that it is being rebuilt, there is an opportunity to regulate it in a different way over the next few decades. Think about it. That's what this is about. I'm comparing it to Père-Lachaise. Those are places people love.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u165	The Association of Housewives is now called the Women's Network. On Père-Lachaise, I fully agree with Mr Pechtold. I was there last Wednesday. You can ride your bike through Paris nowadays; fantastic. Père-Lachaise is a beautiful place. But there is a difference with the royal tomb. That is why I agree with Mr Recourt's initial reaction. There have been quite recent adjustments...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u166	In Père-Lachaise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u167	Yeah, but that's a public cemetery. We're dealing with a closed tomb here. There, under great public interest, but not up to the tomb, there have been corrections of the father and mother of the former queen, the grandparents of the present king. Let me be honest with you: I find it really uncomfortable to go to the king and to question this at all. Moreover, you will never hear me about how he reacts, leaving aside a high exception, which we have talked about before. It feels very uncomfortable. As Mr Recourt said, the glass palace is even more glass, and it is already glass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u168	If it isn't, it isn't. It's not the biggest point. I know. I'm talking about a digital opening. The NOS made a beautiful summary at one of the last funerals, gave a glimpse of what was happening there and showed us, among other things, the history of the family. I thought that was a very nice look-in myself. No one was there. It was just a presentation on a video. Then I'm thinking, "That's what it's gonna do." That's all I need to say. If you say "I don't discuss it" and you don't get to hear "oh, good idea!" Then let's leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u169	Then there are a few questions that do not concern the Royal House, which are about this budget but about the General Affairs section or related matters. First of all, a question has been asked about the Prime Minister. I gave a speech on this last Wednesday in Zwolle. I have argued in this regard that I consider the current arrangements on the premiership to be sufficient. In fact, I have advocated that we do not change this, because it is my experience of six years in this function that the powers and constitutional and further legal possibilities in our state system are sufficient to function properly. Whether this will then be possible in my specific case is, of course, up to the Chamber and to the electorate, but my personal experience is that I do not lack any instruments at the moment to perform the function properly. On the contrary, I am concerned that further constitutional and constitutional consolidation of the function would lead to a decline in effectiveness. We are dealing here in the Netherlands with a by definition fragmented party landscape, which will fragment even more in the coming years than it will become less. In this constellation, I believe that the current state-law arrangements around the premiership offer every opportunity to make the most of them in that context. Specific questions have been asked as to whether you should choose the position directly. I would also like to argue against that. If you have a combination of a presidential system, which you still get when you have a directly elected Prime Minister, and a strong parliamentary democracy, which you keep as long as the Chamber is also directly composed in the current way, and the further constitutional arrangements remain the same, then that will abrade. That's what we've seen in Israel. I would not like to argue in favour of making a change in that arrangement, because that does not fit in with the Dutch tradition. The French tradition, with a strong executive presidency, a remote parliament and possibilities for far-reaching executive powers from the Élysée would not work in Dutch political relations. That is not necessary either, because fortunately we have never found ourselves in a situation such as the Fourth French Republic, of which the Fifth Republic was a result. A question has also been asked about the leaking of the Prince's Daypieces. I have already said, in response to oral questions by Mr Van Raak, that I want to separate the debate on the time when these documents are published from leaking. I am still convinced that whatever publication you choose will always be leaked. At least it can always be leaked. So you don't solve that with another publication schedule. Then that leak will move along to the earlier moment of publishing. It is, of course, up to me to limit the leaking of documents on the cabinet side as much as possible. If the Chamber says that I am only moderately successful at this, then it is absolutely right. It has been said that the parliamentary questions will be answered too late. I know that all colleagues in the cabinet are doing their utmost to answer parliamentary questions in good time. Where that is not possible, as far as I can see, a delay message will be sent in good time. My impression is, moreover, that there is now a faster response, but for the sake of certainty, I will call again on the Council of Ministers next Friday to comply with the deadlines for replying. I think I have answered all the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u170	The Prime Minister said very quickly that there is a leak and I am indeed moderately successful in combating it. He is not only the oil man who has to look for majorities in the Chamber, but he is also the primus inter pares in the cabinet. At least a moral appeal can be made. Every time we have Mr Van Raak, who is rightly very angry. It's like a recurring ritual every year. He's angry every year and says, "Now we want those pieces too." Of course, we're not gonna get one. At the very least, there can be a moral appeal towards the colleagues. Strategic leaking, deliberate leaking, plans being brought out. This cannot be countered by rules, but by ethical awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u171	There's one little Question Time I've hated for six years. That is when Mr Van Raak asks me about the leaked pieces. He does so with such a sharpness and in such an annoying tone, which I understand and which is also effective that it is not my party. So I'm really doing everything I can to prevent that from happening. I say it honestly, because that is objective to establish that this is moderately successful. I fully agree with Mr Segers. I can be called upon to do so, but the report figure on this particular point is not very high. That brings me to two other answers. Mr Van der Staaij asked me about the unity of cabinet policy. I think it's still going well. As the elections approach, this will require a little more attention. When I look back at recent talks in the coalition on all kinds of difficult issues, fortunately it still works, at least until today at 3.30 p.m. Although we as parties have very different views, it is possible in the cabinet and also between the coalition groups to get out well in the country's interest. I hope that we can continue to do so. I have no clue that that will change dramatically. I do not know whether the unity within the parties of the coalition will be preserved in all respects. I'm not talking about my own party, I'm talking about the other party. However, I have less responsibility for this. That is more up to the chairman of that party, Mr Spekman. As far as my responsibility is concerned, I have no reason at the moment to believe that there will be any additional problems there. However, I will be alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u172	I'll give you an explanation. The key to my question was that the period to the elections is a very long one. There have even been suggestions from the best Prime Minister we have never had to advance the elections. In this context, I can imagine that this tension can occur more than in other periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u173	Last Monday, we had another coalition meeting. Of course, I cannot say anything about the content, but there really were a few very difficult issues in the coalition that we were able to solve again. Afterwards we said to each other that it is remarkable that even at this stage of the coalition this is still possible, with such different political views. The same applies to the Council of Ministers. Last week there was no Council of Ministers because of the autumn recess, but the agenda of the Council of Ministers is still full. There are difficult decisions about things like the future of ProRail, the gas extraction and other things that are currently going on. It's still working out. There is still a great deal to be done: piloting budgets through the Chambers and preparing the country for a new coalition. That is why we are very motivated. Mr Segers asked a question about "100 years 1917." I can now only say that the Minister for the Interior is coming forward with further information shortly. He too has not forgotten that next year 100 years have passed since the introduction of universal suffrage. So attention is paid to this, but I cannot now state the exact form. Perhaps I could refer to the colleague of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I will pass on to him the question that has been asked here and the interest in the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u174	It was also about the link between universal suffrage and the wonderful freedom of education we had then, so to celebrate this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u175	Of course, that affects me particularly, because, as Mr Segers knows, I am very much in favour of this freedom of education. Article 23 and the equalization of public and special education, as well as a strong special education in the Netherlands as well as a strong public education, are very much to my liking. I say that as a liberal, I say it to Mr Pechtold. In my party, perhaps not everyone feels that way, but a large majority. I know that Mr Segers is always concerned about this, but I can assure him that the Liberals on the right of the middle are in any case largely in favour of it. It was, of course, the last Liberal Prime Minister for me who managed to untangle one of the most complicated constitutional knots since 1848 perhaps the most complicated constitutional knot after 1917. I have received another beautiful coin from Mr Pechtold and a nice picture of the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u176	I hear a historian speaking here!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u177	I am very motivated to promote what Mr Segers wants, but the Minister for the Interior is about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u178	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We're going to the second term now. By way of derogation from the list of speakers, I give the floor to Mrs Voortman. I understand that Members have not objected to this, so that is permitted. You have one minute, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u179	President. I would like to thank my colleagues very much for this. I have a debate on the Participation Act after this. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear whether documents with a predominantly public interest are kept in the Royal House Archive;]] [[Whereas documents with a predominantly public interest in the context of transparent governance should be transferred to the National Archives and the Royal House Archives should only serve for documents of a strictly personal nature;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the Kalsbeek motion adopted in 2005, to establish a system to check whether documents in the Royal House Archives have a predominantly public interest and therefore to be transferred to the National Archives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the King's budget the members of the Royal House are jointly allocated an amount of EUR 6.26 million for human and material expenditure;]] [[Whereas the budget does not indicate to which staff and material matters this so-called B component of benefits is spent;]] [[whereas the use of public money should be publicly accounted for;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an overview of the various cost items to which the so-called B component of the benefits of the members of the Royal House is allocated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-I-6]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. The debate today was not easy for me. When we talk in the Chamber about increasing the AOW age, reducing the WW or limiting the assistance, we do not make each other popular. But when we talk about the Royal House's fees, the Prime Minister does. I regret that, but I also say to the Prime Minister: as it is worth, he trusts his guests. He's in the stand election, but I just want to do my job in the Chamber. And I will today. Last year, we adopted a motion from Van Raak, Recourt and Pechtold to ensure that members of the Royal House will simply pay taxes like everyone else. The Prime Minister refuses to do so. He is refusing to carry out that motion today, and I think that is not only inappropriate but also brutal. Mr Recourt has already announced his intention to draw up an initiative law. I'd be happy to be a part of that. Others will also be happy to participate. We will still have to have a discussion on how to do this precisely, because I do not think it would make any real sense to raise the fees first. That is the mistake we made in 1973. But we'll see. I hope that we can do it very quickly, and I also trust that the Prime Minister will provide all the official support so that we can do it very quickly. "A tax deal, not a tax deal or a tax deal in 1973" has not been clarified today. However, it is clear that the Prime Minister has a very different story than the researchers of RTL News. There is now a very large historical inquiry into how the composition of the income components of the members of the Royal House has come about. I would like to begin by saying that we have obviously discussed budgets here for many years, and that was not clear at all. There is even a need for a very historical study now! I would very much appreciate it if we could do a very short study of the question of whether there was a deal or not. Have agreements been made or have no agreements been made to compensate for the fact that an exemption was lifted for taxes in income or fees? I would like the Court of Auditors to do that. I look forward to the work that the Prime Minister is still sending us, but at least that is a wish of the SP. In addition to a perhaps very interesting historical study, we would like to have a concrete study carried out by the General Court in the near future. We will also have to have a discussion with each other in the coming years on what is a logical level for members of the Royal House. 1.5 million for a 18-year-old crown princess: the Prime Minister won't let me say it, but I will. I think that's a lot. I think that's too much!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u181	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions and commitments. I look forward to the cabinet's research proposal and its staffing. In an interruption and in my own term, I have already indicated that it is essential for the VVD group to ensure the independence of that research. I'd like to hear a confirmation of that. We are also pleased that the Noordeinde Palace and the Royal Stables were opened last summer. It is true that it was a motion from Mr Recourt, but other colleagues have always argued in favour of this and that it will happen again next year. I think a lot of people are doing a great deal of fun with that. I'll end with the swearing-in of the next cabinet. We know it won't happen in the Orange Room. That gave very nice images, even in two. Let us hope that this time things will go right and that we will see a very nice room in the Noordeinde Palace when the next cabinet is sworn in. Perhaps the Prime Minister could give us a hint of the veil over the room it is about to be, so that we can all look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mr. Chairman. On social media like Twitter, I see that the royal couple is on a working visit in Almelo. The couple does their job very well and is in the middle of society. It is perhaps fortunate that they do not get much of this debate. I started the debate today with the following remark: if one colour connects the Dutch, it is orange. That is what the CDA is still saying, even after the debate I had with my colleagues today, including two historians, Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Raak. But what good is such a title if you can't even remember what you decided in 2008? In that year it was decided what the Crown Princess, not "the girl" with "the allowance," gets when she turns 18. Then what good is a title like that? As a technical engineer, I prefer to stay sober. What we discussed today is very important. We want to honour the royal family, albeit critically and transparently. I will go with Mr Van der Staaij to see if we can change the system in the future, but we have made clear agreements. We must take responsibility for this. To put it to his Amsterdams: have the guts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers and commitments. I've got a few more dots. Firstly, the Prime Minister's announcement that our king and his mother have no knowledge of the deal. I understand the dilemma the Prime Minister stood for. I do have a comment or two. Question about, because at that time the investigation was not completed, nor was the temporary investigation. Isn't it very vulnerable to say: the king didn't know about it? That could come back as a boomerang if it turned out to be the case. Then the Crown Princess. In my term, I have been very careful on this subject and Mr Van der Staaij admits that we did indeed take a different decision in 2008, 2009 but that the balance of interests is now different. It can be done in a democracy. This cabinet has made a number of changes to legislation that is not so old. I challenge the CDA to never change legislation under 12 years of age if it ever comes to rule again. It wouldn't be possible. It's a matter of balancing interests. You have to be consistent, but you can't pour it into concrete. We await the research proposal. I think it's going the right way. I understand the Prime Minister as follows. I would just like to say this because Mr Van Raak made a point of it. I assume that, although RTL is now denied to be right, it will also be considered in the wider context whether there are any indications of the deal. After all, the Prime Minister himself writes in his letter: we cannot find it now, we assume not, but we are not sure. As far as art is concerned, I have not yet fully understood whether it is clear who the owner is for all works of art. I also think it would be good if we were to extend it and deal with it as part of the cultural budget. Mr Pechtold is right: this applies not only to palaces, but also to ministries, the House of Representatives itself and so on. I do think that this needs to be clarified. Finally, the initiative law that we are going to make with the support of at least a large part of the Chamber. I have already said that I am sorry that we have to do so ourselves, but that is the way the rules are in the end. We have the right of initiative, and that is a great right, so we are going to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the debate that has taken place and, here and there, also a concession in response to questions from the Chamber. I did see the royal couple in Twente. I saw that a beautiful painting was offered to them and thought: let's settle that well for the future. I am glad that the Prime Minister and the Chamber here, after everything had actually been discussed openly, are now drawing a line on what exactly happened in 1973. We will have to come back to that in public. The Prime Minister has promised that a large-scale committee will be set up, including the Chamber. I've heard that clearly. I am also pleased that he said that there should be clarity before 1 March, or at least that should be the aim, so that we can do something again for the future, because I want to do so very much. In 2008 you were paying attention, yes or no, and you can come back to something after 2008 if it turns out that things have changed in the meantime, but I am glad that this committee will be there. I believe that consideration should be given to ensuring the future of payments to the members of the Royal House, and I am pleased that a majority of the Chamber wants that too. I think there should be support for that. The Prime Minister always sketches figures and percentages here. He allows the RVD to investigate the popularity of the various members of the Royal House all day long. I'd say if you did all that, this could definitely be done. As far as the cemetery is concerned, I have already said that I do not think it is such a problem, but I would like to encourage everyone once again with the digital possibilities that exist. I want to take away the fear that that will intervene in the private sphere, because you can now also have a close look at recently buried popes, or at least their coffins. There's an interest in that. The Père-Lachaise is another example I mentioned. I hope the mind doesn't stand still, but, well, if it can't, then it doesn't. I think it is important that the House should be informed. I've shown you an extensive investigation. The Prime Minister went over that a little bit. I would like him to go a little further in the second period than mere calls and promises in the Trêveszaal, because we cannot control them either. We can't hear about that either: we do. I would very much like to hear what you have to say, Mr President, and I am looking at you as well, that this is really being done towards a new parliamentary period. Well, let's talk about a deal. If the Chamber is in control, then the answer must also be faster. Surprise us for once with an answer within three days! It is not that you have to wait 15 days with the answer, that is the maximum time limit. In the third year in a row, I have now made it clear to the Chamber that there is still no improvement, but even deterioration. The average is a bit stable, but for some ministries I think: come on, guys, there's got to be some change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u185	I promise you that I will inform the Chamber shortly, because that is what we are all keeping up to date. Then you'll have the latest state of affairs as well. I call Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u186	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. I would like to take this opportunity to say again on behalf of the Christian Union that we very much appreciate the work of the royal family and its commitment to our society. It is a royal house that binds us together and opens doors elsewhere in the world. At the same time, we have had a discussion on the financial arrangements. I have been persuaded by the Prime Minister, who says: we made agreements knowingly and knowingly in 2008, so let us be consistent. I think that is a clear story, but the farther away from 2008 we get, the greater the inconvenience and the longer the discussion will continue. Hence my final question: does the Prime Minister consider this to be homework for the next Prime Minister? In other words, is this in the transition file for the new Prime Minister? Is this homework for another period? Should all these arrangements be reviewed to see if they are future-proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u187	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u188	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked. The first question was about the place of the swearing-in. The palace is known. Of course, I am also very curious to see where I will stand. It will depend, I think, on how big the cabinet is. When I see how many ministers some parties want to join, it may well be a big room. We simply don't know it yet, so we have to wait and see. The palace has beautiful spaces, so I'm sure it'll work. A question has been asked about homework for the next cabinet. I refer to the answer I gave earlier on to Mr Van der Staaij. You can read it in there, but I said above all that I want to weigh what has been said on the hand and taste it on the tongue. You could draw such a conclusion, but I'm not ready yet. Mr Recourt asked whether the research result was not yet known on that Friday. That's right. It wasn't about me reporting the results of the investigation. You couldn't have. It was about whether the king or his mother knew about it. Would that stick in the air, pending that investigation? It was possible in principle that the king and the previous queen knew nothing about it, but that there was a deal. We didn't know anything and nothing was known. That's what the archive material was supposed to prove. Fortunately it doesn't prove that, but there is a connection due to the revision of the royal finances around 1970. We've been asked about the royal property. I believe that the Royal House is doing this very carefully. We have recently seen examples of this which art belongs in a foundation, which art is private property and which art is state property. Maybe that comes back to the Minister for Culture's budget, but I insist that this is done very carefully, as I see it. I come to the inheritance tax and the capital return tax. Perhaps I can explain why it is important for the king to have some private power. There are two reasons for this. First of all, there is no other source of income to raise capital; this is the source of income. Secondly, it is not unreasonable that the king can bear private expenses that fit his condition, but which do not necessarily follow from the kingship. You can think of contributions to certain things. For example, we have seen the contribution in the restoration of De Groene Draeck. That's a contribution that doesn't have to be strict, given the agreements that were made at the time between the Dutch people and Princess Beatrix. Such expenditure may be incurred from this point of view. Then I come to the pace of questioning. I will do it in a two-stage rocket, I say to Mr Pechtold. On Friday, the matter will be discussed in the Council of Ministers. I will then await the inquiry that the President of the Chamber is conducting. That's probably an opportunity for us to grab a cup of coffee together. On the basis of that investigation, I will take it back to the Council of Ministers. On the next occasion that I am here, I will report to the Chamber. I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 6 by Mrs Voortman on the documents of public interest in the Royal House Archive. I sent a letter about this a while ago in response to questions about it. It really is a private archive, which is not covered by the Archive Act. There are good agreements that pieces that should be transferred to the National Archives. In case of doubt, there is good consultation between the Royal House Archives and the National Archives. What the motion in part No. I refer to Mrs Voortman's extensive debate on this subject. The motion is fundamentally contrary to Article 41 of the Constitution. For that reason, I advise against this motion. I also advise against the motion in part No. 6.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-27-tweedekamer-9.u189	I thank the Prime Minister and the MPs. We will vote next Tuesday on the two motions tabled.
