ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Pia Dijkstra. She is supported in box-K by Sophie Meijer, policy officer of the fraction of D66. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. It shall act as an adviser to the Chamber in the consideration of this bill. Today we are discussing the second term of the Chamber. The second response will take place at a later date. The first spokesperson is Mr Van Gerven. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are finally holding the second term of this debate on the legislative initiative proposal relating to the inclusion of an active donor registration system. We had an interesting discussion on a very important subject. This is a very important debate, which has been raging and unabated for many years. The debate we held in the first term has actually only strengthened me further in the view that it would be good to establish an active donor registration system. With this we could come up with shorter waiting lists for people who so badly need a new organ. They just want to be able to live a normal life again. During the first period, many questions were asked about the active donor registration system. These are, of course, issues such as effectiveness, proportionality, legitimacy and so on. Those are always important test moments of a bill. First of all, I would like to focus on effectiveness. If you want to change a system, you want to make sure that the new system is more effective than the old one. The figures and the question as to whether the active donor registration system will actually generate more donors have been well received. There was also talk about Panteia's research. It assessed the effectiveness of three systems, namely the current authorisation system, the compulsory selection system and the active donor registration system. I think we can conclude that Panteia's conclusion is not correct that there is little difference between the effectiveness of these three systems. The study does not reflect reality because in reality relatives are much more negative than Panteia's survey shows. The results of this study cannot therefore be used as an argument against the active donor registration system. The practice abroad speaks volumes. An active donor registration system already exists in different forms in different countries. I refer to Spain, Austria, Belgium, France, Italy and Sweden. In those countries, with a so-called non-objection system, they sometimes go even further. It is known that there the shortage of organ donors is generally much lower than in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands there are now more than 13 million adults. Despite all attempts, 9 million people are still not registered. There is no yes and no no of them registered. So there are still millions of organ donors to recruit. On the other hand, there is the persistent reality in which almost 150 patients die every year while they are on the waiting list for an organ donation. For them, the donor organ will be late. We have already tried everything, including with the help of the master plan, to increase the number of registered people. After six years, it turns out that this just doesn't work, despite all the campaigns. Hence, the SP proposes to stop using all kinds of resources that are ineffective or insufficiently effective and that do not lead to sufficient organ donors. We are making a plea to switch to an effective means: an active donor registration system. Not wanting to donate organs appears to be a stumbling block, but the fact that next of kin do not know what their recently deceased loved one wanted. If someone is registered as an organ donor, next of kin almost always agree. A registration gives the next of kin clarity at a very difficult choice at a very difficult time. The percentage of registered persons must therefore be increased: whether they register yes or no, or leave the decision to their next of kin. It doesn't matter what you choose, it matters what you choose. We consider the ADR system, the active donor registration system proportional, given the above. If the current system does not work, it is desirable and even necessary to take a different path, so that more people waiting for an organ can be helped. That is all about legitimacy. The proposal now before us is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. As I have just outlined, it is already happening in many other countries, sometimes, in other words, more far-reaching conditions. The SP sees no obstacles in this. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Then there is the discussion that the ADR system would run counter to self-determination. I disagree. After all, every choice is free in both systems that we are discussing today. Whatever you want to do with your organs, the decision is in your own hands. The comparison of the VVD fraction of organ donation with the choice for a funeral or cremation, or with the electronic patient file, intrigued me. I'd like to build on that. Mr Rutte states that we do not make decisions about cremations and funerals for others either. That's right, of course. It's got to be a choice of its own. However, the choice to be cremated or buried is something quite different from the choice to donate your organs. You don't harm or benefit other people with that. I think that is a very crucial difference. Finally, a...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u3	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u4	I'm about to finish, Mr. Chairman. Finally, good information for each adult remains an important focus. There all kinds of parties play a role, but certainly also municipalities. That is why the SP is sympathetic to the amendment tabled by Mrs Wolbert of the Labour Party. However, extra attention is needed for those who are not able to read properly or who are less capable of will. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the introduction of an active donor registration system is desirable;]] [[considers it important that as many people as possible should be able to make the most conscious choice to become an organ donor;]] [[noting that there is a large group of people in the Netherlands who are unable or unable to read properly or who are not or are not able to do so;]] [[calls on the government, in its information and public campaigns, to pay particular attention to information to these target groups and to require the municipalities to be more alert to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with a double feeling. We are discussing today a good bill which has the support of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but which has become clear last week that there is currently no political majority in favour. That's a huge disappointment to me. I am particularly sorry for Mrs Dijkstra and her collaborator, after all the energy, time and manpower they have put into this bill. I am also sorry because I had really good hope that this bill would come through. I am also sorry because it seemed that there was finally a breakthrough after years of debate about the organ donation system. However, with the CDA's firm "no" a majority seems to have dropped under this proposal at the moment. There's no room for conversation. There is no way of looking at whether there may still be a possibility of moving from both sides. The CDA says "no" and with that there is currently no majority in favour of an active donor registration system, while there is broad support in society for this bill. As I said, GroenLinks is in favour of an active donor registration system. We believe that people have a moral duty to make their choice, whatever that choice is. I can't make that very clear. We believe that everyone has the right not to be a donor and that people have the right to leave that choice to other people, but we do think it is important that people make their choice known, so that this choice does not automatically come on the board of next of kin. GroenLinks believes that there are sufficient safeguards in the legislative proposal to enable people who do not want to be donors to report this. They are always approached on a number of occasions and may change their choice at any time. Despite all the measures taken in recent years, the registration of the choice of potential donors remains very behind. 60% have not yet made their choice known. For GroenLinks, it is therefore justified to consider whether the system can be changed so that more people are encouraged to make their choice. According to the Minister, it is not clear whether the number of organ donations will increase with another system. It does not think that this system will be more effective than other systems, but we wonder. Will this system ultimately not lead to an increase in the number of post-mortem transplants and an increase in the number of registrations of people as organ donors? As positive as we are about an active donor registration system, we also recognise that it is not the only measure needed to resolve the problem of the shortage of donor bodies. Whether the system is in place or not, other ways to inform people about organ donation and to further improve their practice should also be considered. I therefore hope that the Minister will certainly not lean back on this subject and that she will look closely at the possibilities for organ donation in life, for example. Better information and innovation can help to increase the number of successful donations. Last week's news was not pleasant for many people who are on a waiting list for a donor organ to say the least. I therefore hope that there will be a time when there will be a majority in this Chamber to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. This Chamber makes laws and sometimes makes decisions that people in the country or specialists in the field say: is that such a good idea? Should politics do so? In donor registration, it's actually the other way around. In this case, it is precisely the specialists, the representatives of the interests and most of the population who are calling for this new law to be registered as an active donor, but this House is threatening to ignore this cry for help. I ask all parties in this Chamber, but even more so to each individual Member, to think again about who we are doing this for. We're doing this for people on the waiting list. These are often young people with a whole life ahead of them when they get a donor organ on time. Take Pyra, 26 years old, mother of a 5-year-old son. Three times a week she has to go to the hospital for dialysis treatment. She's afraid a donor kidney's gonna be late. The fact that this bill might not make it was a blow to her face. Every year 150 people die on the waiting list: parents, children, brothers, sisters, friends. Another 100 people are taken off the waiting list because their condition is now so bad that transplantation no longer makes sense. More than 1,000 people need an organ in the short term and are on a waiting list. There are many more waiting when you also count the inactive waiting list, on which people whose quality of life deteriorates by the day, but who hope for that redeeming call every day. As Bart de Graaff's sister wrote to all MPs, the only positive prospect was always the phone that could ring. We share the goal of giving more people a chance of life with 150 seats in this house, but we disagree on the solution. Is this proposal the overall solution? No, it's not. I therefore understand the objections of others and ask the applicant, Mrs Dijkstra, to meet them at their maximum. I also ask others, who may be going to say no tonight, not to stop their thinking. If the applicant is willing to take a step in their direction, I ask them not to take a step backwards, but to be prepared to meet each other. The Dutch people and civil society strongly demand this from us, from politics. This week sounded once again a loud and penetrating call from health funds, patient organisations, doctors, people who experience the problems of the current system every day and have to work with them. Also the umpteenth poll showing that the majority of the population is in favour of a new system sounds more and more like a cry for help. Why am I in favour? The number of people registering remains at 40%. Years of intensive campaigns have made no difference. Of 60% of people, almost 9 million people, no choice is known. Those people therefore have no right of self-determination, because others decide on their organs after their death. These people have no right of self-determination, choice or choice. Only 24% of people are now registered as 'yes', while 66% would like it to be. People also like to receive a donor organ, should they ever need it. That chance is many times greater than the chance that you can become an organ donor after your death. Let us therefore show solidarity and look forward to another, as the CDA so eloquently calls it. Making a choice is a difficult decision, but it is necessary. Sometimes it's literally a matter of life or death. Don't you want it? "No" is so ticked. If you doubt your choice, you can leave it to your next of kin. Do you want to? Then you don't have to do anything. Do you want to review your choice later? That's no problem at all. You're free to choose what you choose. But that's what you choose, that's what's so important, also because the current system is unnecessarily burdensome on survivors. They are being robbed with the question at a very difficult and emotional moment. Let people make the choice during their lives at a quiet time and in consultation with family. I think that's so much more humane. Of course, every proposal has hooks and eyes. Vulnerable groups in society must be protected. This is what the initiator has addressed in detail. I am sure she will be happy to join with others in this Chamber. This can be done by means of information, including by means of images and sound. The general practitioner can also play a role in this. The Stichting Lezen en Schrijven is happy to think and help with the Low-Literatures. Healthcare insurers want to take on a role in reminder campaigns, so that people register their most current wish. There are opportunities to do this carefully, now the political will. Let us not forget that this system already exists in many other countries. There has already been a review of how in other countries will not be able to cope with the will. In Belgium, Austria and Spain a role is assigned to the legal representative. The initiator is undoubtedly prepared to respond to this and to take on board suggestions. Let's learn from other countries, too. I would like to say this: out of the ten European countries with the most post-mortem donors, nine have a non-objection system. Although I had the impression that the Minister was trying to change our minds, she also had to admit that the Netherlands is clearly much lower in postmortem and that we are getting it up with our living donors. There's no misunderstanding about that. We're the frontrunner in kidney donations when we're alive, and we should be proud of that. But in postmortem donations, we're dangling down somewhere, and this bill is just focusing on those postmortem organ donations. The choice isn't easy, because it's literally about life and death. Well, then we'll have to get past the no strings. The current system, despite all efforts, has become a dead end. Capturing your choice is the least anyone in the Netherlands can do. Listening carefully to civil society and to the people is the least we can do. The speaker here looks out on 150 blue chairs. That image of 150, coupled with the waiting lists and the number of dying, I can't get that off my retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u7	An emotional speech by Mr Pechtold. That is understandable, because this is an emotional subject. Apart from that, we need to take a look at the facts. Mr Pechtold rightly pointed out that nine European countries had a non-objection system, but he also knew that Mrs Dijkstra's bill advocated an active donor registration system. In which European or other countries does an active donor registration system exist, as is currently proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u8	Many comparisons have been made in the first term, including by Mrs Dijkstra. I admit that not every system fits exactly. I regret, however, that in a country like the Netherlands that dares to lead in medical-ethical matters, dares to explore difficult paths and takes minorities who object very seriously, after almost fifteen years of discussion, this step still cannot be taken. I admit I don't have an answer to that. I am not saying that ten countries have preceded us and that we are behind. I'll just say that others are bolder, more progressive in looking for a solution. We can beat each other up with reports like we almost did in the first term, but we shouldn't do that and say: here I am right, there you are right. There are so many specialists in the field and so many interest groups and patient organisations who think this is an improvement on current practice, which you are not happy with either, that I say: let us take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u9	I shall come back to that because it is suggested that Mr Pechtold does so, and Mr Van Gerven did so, even though we are allowed to make a comparison with the non-objection systems, whereas the system proposed here is quite different. Many parties, like me, have expressed concerns about the fact that relatives, who play a major role in the system proposed today, are not better supported, but worse supported. They don't know very well whether someone has actually said "yes" consciously. This puts the risk that the number of donors will not increase. Will Mr Pechtold go into that again? Why does he think it's so sure that's gonna happen? I ask him that, precisely because he is so attached to the large number of donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u10	I can't give you that certainty, and I don't even want to give it to you. I know one thing, and that's that doctors tell us that the pain and sadness at the moment of choice are now greater. They now have fewer handles to help the next of kin than in the future. That is the most important point. What I also think is important is that this system closes the gaping gap between the 24% that is now registered and the 66% that actually wants to be registered. I cannot imagine that the VVD here continues to say like a block: this cannot be done. I cannot imagine that we will not be able to shape the law in the near future in such a way that we cannot overcome the problems that Mr Rutte feels right and which I also see. The PvdA has already made proposals; with the CDA we are going to look at what we should do with the willless. I think that's a big problem. I would like to respond to Mr Rutte and see how we prevent something from happening in that last moment that people would not have wanted. I see objections to Mrs Dijkstra's law, but I see more objections to the current system. And that makes me convinced that we must have the courage to take this step, supported by the people, supported by specialists, supported by interest groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator and her team for the effort they have made to raise an important issue in the Chamber and for all the time and care they have spent on it. We at DENK share the concerns about the number of organ donors. We want to adapt D66's proposal in such a way that it is possible for every Dutchman to express personally whether or not he wants to be a donor, and not by letter, but in a personal one-to-one conversation. In my first term, I proposed an alternative donor system. DENK proposes to use the moment of issue of the passport or identity card for the donor registration. Every time someone comes along, they have a one-on-one conversation with him and they ask him if he wants to be a donor. After all, it is possible that someone who does want to be a donor at the age of 20 does not want to be at the age of 50 or 40. We have used a lot of educational material recently, but it appears that this has not worked. However, everyone must come and pick up a passport and anyone can then enter into this conversation with the official concerned. For example, we can confront every Dutchman in the Netherlands with the question of whether or not he wants to be a donor. I have tabled an amendment to this effect, which we maintain. I'd like to make two further motions. Is this the time to file motions, Mr. Chairman? I don't know. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is important for people who have registered as organ donors to know exactly how organ donation works;]] [[calls on the Government, when informing on organ donation, not only to highlight the need for more organ donors, but also to outline the circumstances in which donors of an organ donor can be used and the way in which they do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yeah, it's supposed to happen in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u13	Good. I want people who want to be organ donors to be properly explained what organ donation means to them. There is little information about this in information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u14	I have also tabled an amendment. I would appreciate it if that amendment would also receive an opinion from the Council of State. On that occasion, I shall table a motion for a resolution. But if we have to wait for the opinion of the Council of State, the vote should be postponed. I don't know if I should file that motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u15	Do that, Mr Öztürk, it is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u16	Okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Invites the Advisory Section of the Council of State to inform the Second Chamber of the amendment on donor registration when issuing the passport and identity card (33506, No. 12), in particular on the advantages and disadvantages of the amendment compared to the active donor registration system in the proposal of the law of the Member Pia Dijkstra,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. During the first period, a wide-ranging exchange of views was held on Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal. The CDA would like to thank her and the applicant for all the effort they have put into answering all the questions as well as possible. I would also like to thank the Minister for her clear answers. The CDA shares the objective of increasing organ donors and transplants. That is why the CDA Group has carefully weighed Mrs Dijkstra's proposal. On the basis of that weighting, the CDA Group, individually and unanimously, concludes that it cannot support the legislative proposal. There are several coherent reasons for this: the lack of clarity about the effectiveness, the still existence of alternative possibilities and the lack of a coherent system for will-skills. In its reply, the applicant indicated that the introduction of an active donor registration system infringes the right of the body to be inviolable, as laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution. But this right to untouchability of the body, that physical integrity, is not unlimited. The proposal must also meet the requirements of proportionality, effectiveness and subsidiarity. In other words: are there even less far-reaching alternatives? The effectiveness of the proposal has been discussed in detail. There is a big difference between the Minister's and the applicant's views on how many additional organ transplants this proposal would produce. The Minister indicated that she is not sure that this bill will lead to significantly more organ donations. There is also much uncertainty as to whether this proposal is much more effective than the current system. However, the applicant did not see that as such. Both the applicant and the minister screened with a whole bunch of investigations, which led to a great deal of uncertainty as to the effectiveness of this bill. I come to the subsidiarity of the proposal: are there any other options? Are there any alternatives to increasing the number of successful organ transplants? The Minister and the applicant also differed in this regard. The applicant indicated that there are actually no alternatives. She didn't see any more credible possibilities. The Minister argued that there are considerable opportunities in the field of innovation. The CDA sees the latter as well. I did find it striking that the Minister indicated that it might be a better idea to spend the money needed for this bill to promote innovation. For the implementation of the ADR system, we are talking about EUR 30 to 35 million. That's quite a statement from this minister. What is the Minister prepared to do? How does she see that? The third reason lies in the fact that there is no close system for people who are incompetent. These people can be registered as donors in Mrs Dijkstra's system without knowingly being able to make a choice for yes. The debate has made it clear that we do not have a comprehensive system to protect these vulnerable groups. The performer also indicated that herself. When those vulnerable people do not properly understand what is being asked of them and do not respond to government letters, they are registered as organ donors. We are concerned with the combination of this and our two other objections, namely those relating to effectiveness and the other possibilities. This is a major objection for the CDA, especially since the lack of the capacity to understand the public sector information and the difficulty of assessing the consequences of their choice. The current legislation, the current law on organ donation, provides that the willless are not allowed to make the choice. The current law on organ donation therefore refers to a "no," unless: only in exceptional circumstances and subject to very strict requirements may a willless organ donor be. He must have made up for that choice at some point in his life. It has to do with the fact that the unskilled are in a dependent position and cannot properly assess their situation. The performer wants to completely reverse this, to a "yes, unless," which is really a fundamental reversal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u18	Although the position of her group has already become clear before this second deadline, I am pleased that Mrs Bruins Slot is still prepared to make a detailed statement on the three points that will give substance to the problem for the CDA. I hope that this is also intended to see whether these points can be met. As I see it, the question of whether there are other possibilities has actually been answered in the last 15 years; otherwise we would have. I would like to answer that question with Mrs Bruins Slot. Even then, the opinions and proposals said that we should go to this system. Does Mrs. Bruins Slot agree with me? The second objection is effectiveness. To my surprise, I have heard the Minister submit reports on this subject on a rather one-sided basis. We can take those reports to one side, the minister can take them to the other side, but if you look right through your eye hairs at those reports, you can see that the effectiveness of the proposal is better than what we have now. The proposal also has reservations, it has other objections, but in the end it is better. Does Mrs. Bruins Slot agree with me? Finally, there is the point of the willless. We agree that this is a difficult issue in this law. Is the CDA willing to work with the applicant to see how we can rule out problems and risks? I have not yet seen a law that eliminates problems and risks, but we could try to minimize them even more than in the first proposal. If I listen carefully to the CDA, that seems to me to be the most important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u19	The CDA is in favour of more organ donors. That is why we have looked so carefully at the legislative proposals in recent years. Last Tuesday we talked to everyone in the group individually about this. There was a unanimous feeling that we should vote against this bill. That's really in that set of reasons. Indeed, there is a great deal of uncertainty about effectiveness. One says it's more effective, the other says it isn't, but this is about the breach of a fundamental right, so it should ultimately lead to something that is actually more effective. In addition, there are the alternative options, which the Minister has already addressed in detail. And finally, the position of the willless is fundamentally reversed. This leads to the CDA simply not supporting this bill. Now to Mr Pechtold's second question. As a spokesperson, of course, I have looked into the possibility of alternatives and whether we can table amendments. The CDA Group has also come to the conclusion that we do not see them. That is why the news has already been brought forward for the second term. I did not want to go into this debate with the idea that Mr Pechtold now has, namely that changes were still possible. I wanted to bring that clarity to the group, as soon as we had her, straight out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u20	Since Mrs Dijkstra is in trade union K, I can speak on behalf of my group. I am not a spokesperson for public health, but I can imagine that, if there is a debate on public health, the possibility of reducing the number of deaths by 150 per year in a debate on traffic measures, I can also imagine that in this Chamber the feeling would be quite quick: we should do so. We must do everything we can to reduce that number. The number may be even greater, because we do not see much. We do not see the people for whom it is too late and who are therefore going off the waiting list. Then I ask the CDA after this long, long discussion: those three points are not fundamental, are they? They're about effectiveness, about willpowers and about maximum commitment. There are also problems in the current system. It is also about alternatives. We can almost finish that last path after all this discussion. When it comes to the principle, I would respect that of an individual member. The people of the Christian Union and other parties say that, okay, although there are also people with a religious background who say yes. But if it is not a matter of principle in the group, then we have an expensive duty to try to reduce it. That is why I am asking the CDA Group: is that door closed now, or is there the willingness to look further together? Then it'll take us a few weeks or a few months. You can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u21	Of course, there are very moving stories behind this. There's a lot of people's personal suffering. That also means that the CDA has looked so carefully at the bill, precisely because it concerns people who are waiting for an organ donor. After examining the proposals, we have come to the conclusion, individually and unanimously as a group, that there are a number of major problems with this legislative proposal. Then it's about the lack of clarity of effectiveness. It's about the fact that there are still alternatives. It is indeed about weighing principles, at the time when you are dealing with the violation of a fundamental right, namely the physical integrity and inviolability of the body. You have to make your own choice. In addition, there is indeed also the problem of the unskilled. This means that the CDA now chooses not to support this bill nor to table amendments to change it. So we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u22	I would nevertheless like to play my part in peeling off the arguments put forward by the CDA. In particular, it concerns the question of whether there are alternatives. The only alternatives put forward are machine perfusion and stem cell therapy. The Minister said that she is willing to spend a lot of money on research on that. I think that should really be done; that seems fine to me. But those are the innovations that the specialists, I think, can say: they are alternatives that are still at a very experimental stage. It's just a question of what this is going to yield. It is already certain that in the coming years these alternatives will not be an alternative for all those people who need organs quickly. If you rank innovations among real alternatives, I really wonder if you have listened to the medical specialists who say: they are not alternatives in the short term and in the long term we have to see what comes of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u23	I appreciate Mrs Wolbert's efforts to get rid of the arguments, but it really is a set of arguments why the CDA chooses not to support the bill. I refer to the lack of clarity in effectiveness. There are other options. Moreover, this bill fundamentally changes the position of non-skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u24	I hear Mrs Bruins Slot making the well-educated triple. That is her right, but if we here in the Chamber peel off all the arguments, then I find these disappointing answers. The arguments are very shaky, whether there are alternatives or other options. Why didn't you want to think about that? 'Cause it's about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u25	It is precisely because this is a poignant problem with a lot of personal suffering that the CDA has carefully considered. I have repeated the arguments put forward by Mrs Wolbert in order to emphasise how we have weighed things up. The Minister has mentioned a broad set of issues that are still possible. Indeed it is about the perfusion chamber, about techniques like Crisper and about 3D printing. However, it is also important, for example, to involve municipalities or schools more in the provision of information. For example, there are many other things and innovations to achieve a better result. This is important if a fundamental right is to be broken, namely to make sure that there are alternatives that have not yet been tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u26	Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with Mrs Bruins Slot, but the alternative she offers by saying that there are still alternatives and innovations is not real. In the short term, they do not produce anything at all, because they are at a far-reaching experimental stage. I am referring to the 3D printing of organs, because that is what we are talking about. In the short and medium term, this does not result in donors and organs. The fact that municipalities can be better involved and that more information is needed is, of course, the case. However, as far as the ADR system is concerned, I have insisted on this in my amendment. That is not an argument to be opposed, no matter what system you use and whether or not municipalities should be involved in the information process. Of course, you should never forget those opportunities, but it is not an argument to wipe a whole system off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u27	It is indeed a question of putting together arguments. But let me take another example. When 18-year-olds now receive this letter to make the decision to become organ donors, the question is how many of these 18-year-olds are having a social discussion about the importance of organ donation. Then it turns out that only one in six 18-year-olds currently at school is talking about the importance of organ donor and about the question of knowingly making a choice. This means that 80% of these pupils, of those who are 18 years old, are and will not be informed about donors in any way at school. They get a cold letter on the table. There are really big steps to be taken and the CDA would also like to see that. Research also shows that it is discussed at the dinner table in the family in the evening when those 18-year-olds have talked about it at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u28	Then why doesn't the CDA put forward proposals for this? If you are against a bill in principle, you can say that in the first term. The CDA has explicitly not chosen to do so, but has raised a number of points on what it wanted to hear from the applicant and on which it wanted a good answer. If it does not then find these answers sufficient, the CDA Group can table amendments or motions to change them a little, for example on more information and on the desire for more to be done when it comes to willlessness and effectiveness. These are all issues on which you can table motions or amendments. Then why doesn't the CDA choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u29	The CDA has looked very carefully at the proposal. Mrs Voortman has had a lot of debates with me and has seen many of my amendments come along in recent years. But it is a breach of the Constitution. If you look at the consequences of this, there appears to be a great deal of uncertainty about the effectiveness of this system. There's no way to take that away. There are still many alternatives that you can carry out independently without making such a huge fundamental change as Mrs Dijkstra proposes. And you still have a fundamental reversal of the question of how to deal with willless people. We have looked together to see if we, as CDA, could table an amendment to remove all these concerns. We did not see that, and that is why we decided individually and unanimously as a CDA group that we will not support this bill. Nor will we table any amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u30	You may not be able to table one amendment covering everything, but you can come up with different proposals. You can also talk to the petitioner. I myself have been given a number of own-initiative laws by engaging in extensive consultation with political groups and adapting things. Mrs Dijkstra is an incredibly reasonable person and I think she would have liked to see how she can meet the CDA. It is precisely because I know Mrs Bruins Slot well and have had many debates with her that I find it rather disappointing that she did not. In this way it actually gives false hope, when it does not come up with proposals to improve the law. I really think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u31	If I had seen opportunities, I would have. That is why I have chosen to say for the second time that we in the CDA Group have come to the conclusion that we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u32	The position of the CDA in this debate is a very special one. I do not mean that negatively, because I have listened well to the CDA's first term in this debate. Mrs Bruins Slot kept all the options open and took as much information as possible to weigh the bill. Now that was complicated by the information that the Minister sent us, because the Minister played a not very pleasant role, so to speak. She did not act as an advisor, but she also clearly expressed her own opinion. Mr Pechtold called it "one-sided." I thought it was even more than that, but this is what matters to me. I found that the CDA is not a "no" in principle. It is not a categorical no to the principle, if we were to move to another system. The CDA is mainly concerned with matters such as effectiveness and proportionality, and not with the fundamental point of view. Is that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have just heard Mr Van Gerven's involvement in his term. I will not give Mr Van Gerven false hope: the CDA is not going to support this bill. We have really looked very closely at whether there were any amendments to fix the proposal, but they are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mrs. Bruins Slot is avoiding what I want to ask her. I'm not asking her to support this bill. I ask her whether it is true that the principle of a "yes, unless" or a "no objection" at the CDA does not call for a categorical no. There is a categorical no to this bill, but not against the principle. That's how I listened to it, even in the first term. Mrs Bruins Slot has mentioned three arguments why she cannot support this bill. If so, I'd like to ask the CDA if there's a country where the system has changed from a "yes, unless" to a "no, unless."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u35	I understand that Mr Van Gerven is just trying to make sure that the bill, or a variant of it, makes it here. The CDA won't support that. This is a breach of a fundamental right, Article 11, the physical integrity, the inviolability of the body. If you want to do that, then there are two very important criteria, compared to the current system. The first criterion is that it really needs to be shown that the system ahead is more effective than the current system. The second criterion is that, if there are even less far-reaching alternatives, you must first choose them. I repeat my arguments, because that is my answer to Mr Van Gerven's question. From what the Minister says and what Mrs Dijkstra says, it is clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty about effectiveness. You can't really say anything about that. And there are even less far-reaching alternatives. This means that the CDA is currently rejecting a "yes, unless" because the various fundamental considerations of principle are simply not in line with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u36	I do not get an answer to my question as to whether there are countries that have been switched from a system of "yes, unless" to a system of "no, unless." Those countries aren't here. However, there is a reverse development. That is an indication that systems based on no objection or "yes, unless" are likely to be more effective. My request is whether the CDA is prepared to re-examine which system is most effective. We have time, because no one has anything to do with a voted-down bill. We have received the Minister's figures and we can discuss them. There is a lot of experience abroad. We could still make another round to see if there is a more effective system to come up with than we do now. This is a crucial point in Mrs Bruins Slot's speech. Are there not alternative, less far-reaching alternatives? I have not heard them in the debate so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u37	It is a question of putting together arguments. If we go down the path Mr Van Gerven outlined, its effectiveness will become even more unclear. That's not a path for us to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u38	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u39	In short, unnecessary patients are waiting for an organ and that is often a matter of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u40	Before you go any further, Mrs Wolbert has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u41	Although I wonder if I still take myself seriously when I ask Mrs Bruins Slot another question, because she cannot be persuaded. But I want to check something. Mrs. Bruins Slot is a lawyer and I'm just a simple behavioral scientist. She referred to Article 11 and the violation of physical integrity. The current law on organ donation also infringes that same article of law. It's allowed. In fact, the proposal that is now before us is a variation in that breach of that article of the law. I wonder if this is another argument from the CDA that it is said that we should consider it all in conjunction and in combination, while in fact it is flimsy and not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u42	An infringement of a fundamental right is a matter of whether there is a new proposal in relation to the current situation. I say to Mrs Wolbert that the current situation is as it is and the new situation is Mrs Dijkstra's proposal. The new situation must prove to be much more effective. You also need to see if there are perhaps less far-reaching alternatives that also lead to an improvement. That's the weighting you're making here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u43	That is a private consideration of the CDA Group in a kind of individual unanimity. The Council of State also weighed this argument and did not object to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u44	Fundamental rights always weigh your own weight. In short, unnecessary patients are waiting for an organ, and that is often a matter of life or death. The proposal before us is not the solution to this problem for the CDA. That is why we shall vote against the proposal. However, the CDA wants to be heavily invested in alternatives now, and that is why I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are hundreds of people on a waiting list for a donor organ;]] [[Whereas reducing these waiting lists is of great importance for the quality of life of those concerned;]] [[noting that technological innovations and innovations in the field of communication can make an important contribution to the provision of more transplantable organs;]] [[invites the Government to examine which promising innovations can be further developed or rolled out, whether and, if so, what financial means are needed for this and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the 2017 budget treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u45	Don't do that. Do not do that if you make an argument here which does not highlight the fundamental objections, but practical issues that might have led to a solution after 15 years of discussion and good consultation. Then please don't come up with one of those things. I've been very alive so far... gratuite call through a motion. Listen to the people, listen to patients' organizations. Of course, I will not say to my group that we are voting against the motion, but what does the motion say? Minister, take another look, run another campaign, pull another $10 million for an investigation? That's not an answer to this law. I would ask Mrs Bruins Slot to reconsider whether she would like to table such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u46	That is a statement by Mr Pechtold. I have listened to him in the sense that I hear him, but I have deliberately decided to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u47	I'm gonna be stuck with it for a while. What could the petitioner have done, said or changed to its proposal to persuade the CDA? I'd like to know. The CDA had not yet taken that position. What should have happened in the applicant's first deadline, which had changed the CDA's position here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u48	The decisive factor for the CDA is that there is uncertainty about effectiveness, that there are alternative ways to go and that the position of the willless is fundamentally changed. I told Mrs Voortman earlier that if I had really seen that I could have tabled amendments to remove all those objections, I would have done so. However, the CDA Group did not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u49	It would have decorated Mrs Bruins Slot if she had said in the first term: these are important arguments for us, we know that we do not agree on this, so we will vote against it anyway. We would all have known where we were, including the people who have followed this debate with excitement and are still following it. That would have been so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u50	I hear Mrs Voortman's involvement in her voice. In the first period, the CDA has clearly indicated that it will weigh the infringement of the fundamental right on the basis of its effectiveness and on the basis of the presence of other possibilities. At that time we also raised the point of the willless. The answer was, among other things, that there is no definitive system for this. There has been a lack of clarity about effectiveness and there are other ways to go about it. This led to the conclusion that we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. It has been a while, but I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra as the initiator of the bill and the Minister for all the answers they have given in the first term. The subject affects many people and also has many dilemmas, social, medical and ethical. I would like to stress once again that my group and, in my view, all the other groups in the Chamber are concerned about the lack of donors and the fact that less than half of the Dutch population have registered. As far as I'm concerned, I've got to get something off my chest. In the current social debate, it seems as if anyone who opposes the ADR system would not be merciful towards those who are now on a waiting list. I find it sad to see that there is such a thought and I oppose it. My group does indeed object in principle to the proposal because the system is based on 'who does not speak up'. If you do not register actively as a donor, you will receive a passive check at "yes." The Christian Union considers it a disproportionate violation of physical integrity when the government decides what happens to your body after death. It cannot be ruled out that this means that people are registered as donors against their will. That certainly plays in the hands of the incompetent and, in fact, incompetent. However, this objection has nothing to do with any reservations about organ donation as such. The Christian Union is for organ donation, as well as fortunately a lot of people inside and outside our constituency. It is an act of charity and even sacrifice in a sense. We really want to use everything to get people to make that choice, that registration "organ donor or not?" to be made. This has to be a choice of its own. That is what this debate is about. Apart from all this, it is not at all clear that the ADR system will lead to more donors. There are doubts about effectiveness. The Minister gave an overview of this in her reply. It is good to see that there are many innovations that can help people on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u52	The position of the Christian Union is clear. The Minister is now being quoted every time. The applicant has not yet been able to respond to the Minister's arguments. Have you heard the Minister say one positive thing about this law? All she did was quote from reports that can't be. I dare you. What's the Minister's argument to say what's good in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u53	I recall from the first-term reply that the Minister outlined the systems in other European countries. From this we cannot clearly conclude that if we introduce this system, it will lead to more donors. Several studies have been reviewed, which have been cited in the reply in the first period. Several MPs have done this too. It also shows that we cannot clearly conclude that the ADR system leads to more donors. We are getting a diffuse system with the proposed system. Survivors will never, in a very difficult moment in their lives, know for sure whether their loved one's desire was an active or a passive yes. This can lead to fewer registrations and fewer donor organs. This cannot contradict Mr Pechtold. There's uncertainty and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yeah, and it's there now! There is now! That's why we're now in the process of legal treatment. It is not clear, but the arguments are not one-sided either. I am only challenging you to say that this is not so difficult; I am sorry to hear the CDA speak of this first. I think that the Minister's contribution in particular needs a lot of nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u55	For my group, it is not a done deal. The Minister's contribution pointed this out; there was nothing wrong with that. For my group, it is not clear that this bill is effective and will lead to more bodies. On the contrary, there are many doubts about it. I find the application of this system, which is such a disproportionate breach of human physical integrity, disproportionate. We should not take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u57	I'd gotten to the innovations. I see I'm gonna have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u58	I have the same question to the Christian Union as to the CDA. Do I hear from Mrs Dik-Faber that it is also a question of effectiveness for the Christian Union? Would it be negotiable for the Christian Union if the ADR system were to be much more effective than the current system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u59	No. Then it is not negotiable, because there is a fundamental point in this law. People who do not register, for whatever reason and in any situation, are registered by the government as "yes." The Christian Union believes that the government is crossing a border. The government comes into an area that doesn't belong to the government. People should be able to decide for themselves what happens to their bodies after they die. We have received our body from God. Leave it to man to decide, not the government. There is a discussion as to whether the bill is effective. That is certainly an argument in the recitals. If everything points out that it would be effective, the government still crosses a principled border that the government is not supposed to cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u60	Your position is clear. Let us start from the current system and look at who decides what. Nine million people didn't register. When one of those 9 million unregistered people dies, the result is usually that it does not become a donor because the next of kin cannot or dare to make that decision, for whatever reason, while that person might have wanted to be an organ donor. Today's practice leads to an outcome that the person in question did not want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Van Gerven is now introducing the element of reciprocity. I understand, from man to man, that that element is going to play a role, but we can't build that element of reciprocity into systems, can we? Then the government will cross a border, won't it? We can't organize charity in a system, can we? We just can't do that. My group also considers it very important that people register. I also find it insufferable that so many people have not yet done so. I want to do everything I can to force people to make that choice, but we can't force people to do it. I will be tabling a motion in a moment that hopefully will help more people make that choice and register in any way. I want them to register at least so that there is no confusion among the next of kin and hopefully more organ donors will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u62	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u63	In the current system, the desire of many people who have not registered to be organ donor is not met. If you see that, wouldn't you have to do something to fix it? We've seen the current practice. How many campaigns have we conducted to increase the number of registered people? We'll say, "Turn it around." In addition, I would like to give this to the Christian Union, which is going to make time cut. If there is a new system, it will be the new standard. Now the norm is that you're not a donor unless you've registered. Then slowly but surely sharpens that new norm. This also reflects the right to self-determination, the right to self-determination, which we all consider to be very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u64	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Gerven. If I have heard him correctly, his central point is that a lot of people who might have wanted to be donors will not eventually be because their next of kin have hesitations in agreeing. I think he's got a point there. That is why I think it is so very important that the discussion about being an organ donor after death is much more frequent. I note, based on what I hear around me, that a lot of people find it difficult to fill out the form, because they find it difficult to talk about their death with relatives and because they find it difficult to think about the period after their death. I'm referring to my motion. I'm looking for every opportunity to promote that conversation, to provide people with grabs to hold on to that conversation. This can be done, for example, at the time they are with the GP. I'd like to file a motion in a moment. I hope that Mr Van Gerven will support the Christian Union and see how we can help people to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u65	I mean, that would be a good thing to do next to this proposal, wouldn't it? Of course, more needs to be said about it. Of course, we have to make people think more about it. It's not one or the other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u66	Yes, it is more information for the Christian Union. I see that 80% of the municipalities have a role to play in the field of information, but there are also municipalities that have a leaflet in their pockets. Then I guess it could just be better. That's what we need to bet on. That's what the Christian Union wants. We don't want the ADR system. They may exist side by side, but we reject the ADR system because of the objections I have just raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would indeed like to respond to that. Mrs Dik-Faber just said: even if it were effective, we still believe that the proposal crosses a line. That scared the hell out of me. So the Christian Union is actually saying: we can have a discussion about effectiveness, but we should not work with bodies that are acquired in this way, so that lives can be saved. I find such a statement really terrible for people who are on a waiting list for a donor organ. I assume Mrs Dik-Faber says: no, I misspelled that. If this is effective, then shouldn't we? Well, then it's got to be very heavy, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u68	The proposal is not effective. I can see that there are a lot of people on the waiting list. I also see that many people may die because of this. That's what I care about, too. However, I find it extremely difficult for people who oppose the ADR system to be blamed for not being able to sympathize with it and for not being merciful to those who are on such a waiting list. I have doubts about the proposal. My group believes that the government is crossing a border by entering the space of people and of the physical integrity of people. You can't and you can't. Let's do everything we can with each other to help the people on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u69	The Christian Union says: we do not even do it if this would help people and if it would be effective. Even then, it may and can't be done by the Christian Union. Then the Christian Union does consider that argument to be more important than the argument that we can help people in donor bodies in this way. So Mrs Dik-Faber can say that she is sorry that it is being done as if the Christian Union would not mind that there are too few organ donors. However, Mrs Dik-Faber's far-reaching statement shows that she considers the argument of finding additional donor bodies to be of less importance. So she has to admit that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u70	I said what I wanted to say about this. I shall continue with my speech, Mr President. I come to the innovations. I like to see that there are innovations that can help people on the waiting lists. The perfusion chamber in the UMCG has been mentioned. There, rejected organs are made fit for transplantation. However, we must do everything we can to increase the number of people registering. I would therefore like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only 26% of the population aged 18 and over have expressed donor registration requirements;]] [[Whereas it is important for survivors as well as for people on the waiting list that more people register as organ donors;]] [[calls on the government to draw up an action plan on organ donation this year, which will address the following issues:]] [[improve information on what organ donation means and what choices people have, and keep once they have made a choice;]] [[the possibilities to confront people more frequently and more intrusively with the question of whether they want to be organ donors, asking this question at logical contact moments with, for example, the municipality, general practitioners and health insurance companies;]] [[the possibilities and opportunities available to make organ donation easier to discuss with relatives so that more people make a choice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. For the VVD, the importance of organ donation and organ transplantation is undisputed. For those who are on the waiting list for a donor organ, getting such a donor organ is crucial for the quality of life. For some on that list, it's a matter of life or death. In the first term, I explained the weighting of the VVD Group. For the assessment, we have placed the proposal along the bar of self-determination that is so important for liberals, and we have weighed the expected effectiveness of the proposal. Both of these factors lead us not to support the proposal, with the remark that the final assessment is for the individual members of the group. Medical-ethical issues like this are a free matter with the VVD. In order to clarify this point, I would like to ask the President to vote jointly and severally on the legislative proposal. The fact that the opinion on the legislative proposal before us is not positive does not mean that the debate on the importance of organ donation should be silenced. Thanks to the applicant, Mrs Dijkstra, the debate on the importance of organ donation and its registration lives more than ever. The VVD will continue to contribute to the debate in order to prevent it from weakening. In line with the VVD's election programme, I think it is very important that people register their choice of organ donation. People are not obliged to register, but should perhaps be better informed about the consequences of non-registration. After all, it is not the case that you cannot become an organ donor in that case. The question is asked to your next of kin. Is the Minister prepared to pay attention to this consequence of non-registration in the information campaign? It could be part of the drafting of the motion that Mrs Bruins Slot has just tabled, partly on my behalf. Finally, I myself have tabled a motion on organ perfusion, an important technique for making more organs suitable for transplantation and for improving the quality of organs. The technique exists and is already firmly implemented in the UMCG. In other places in the Netherlands a start has been made on the implementation. It is important that standards are rapidly developed for the design, manning, training and working methods in the perfusion chambers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that organ perfusion makes an important contribution to increasing the number of organs available for organ transplantation and improving the quality of those organs;]] [[noting that the UMCG in Groningen was the first to set up a specific perfusion chamber in the Netherlands and gained extensive experience in both the organ press fusion process and the design of the building;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that this specific knowledge and experience be converted into health care standards for transplant medicine as soon as possible, so that organ perfusion can be used in a standardised and proven effective manner throughout the Netherlands and that the necessary human resources and training capacities are clarified;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, where possible, the implementation of these adapted standards of care for transplant medicine and to inform this year's Budgetary Office about progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rutte and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u72	I cannot help saying something to Mr Rutte about the submission of two somewhat transparent motions, together with the CDA. It's okay, but it could have happened at another time. The CDA could have just arranged it. I think it's wipes for the bleeding. My question is about something else, listening to the first term and the second term of the VVD. What importance do we attach to the judgment of patient organisations, for example? I am not talking about the polls showing that a large majority of the Dutch population wants this. What importance do we attach to the judgment of patient organisations and doctors? Whatever I read and whatever I hear, everyone who is involved in the subject on a daily basis says that this step must be taken. Take that step, do it now; talk about what can be done better, but take that step after fifteen years of discussion. What does the VVD say to all those people who have spoken about this recently? Again: I am not talking about the polls, because you can say that the Dutch people do not know exactly what is going on when such a question is presented. I listen to specialists and patients' organizations. Does Mr. Rutte do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u73	I have listened very carefully to all the stakeholders in this dossier. I've read in very intensively. I have been on many work visits, because I think it is extremely important that we make informed judgements. Moreover, I have also come on the basis of the work visits to the motion I have just tabled. I also support Mrs Bruins Slot's motion on the basis of those visits. I don't think it's so fancy that it's being pretended to be nothing. For that, I take this dossier far too seriously. That aside. Of all the organisations, experts and doctors I have spoken to, many have argued in favour of the active donor registration system. At the same time, I have looked very closely at the facts. I've read a lot of reports on the effectiveness of organ donation systems. I am talking about Dutch reports: the report of Mr Friele from 2004, the second evaluation of the Law on Organ Donation, the Master Plan Organ Donation and the study of Panteia. In these four studies, each time on the basis of sound scientific research, it is concluded that it is not the modification of the registration system and that this does not help to get more organs. I think I have to take these scientific studies seriously, it is not one, it is not two, it is not three, but there are four of them that have to be taken seriously in my assessment of effectiveness, apart from the concerns about the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u74	I just want to say a few words about these motions. I've been carrying this around for a while. How's that going with motions? If, as a party, especially as a coalition party, you're a bit stuck and you're not quite comfortable with a subject, then you make a motion in which you say: look, we're still doing something. Often you do that together with another party, which is also a bit stuck. But if it's really meant to seek acceptance, I'm trying to do it on behalf of my party today, because I'm proud of Mrs. Dijkstra............................................................................................................................... But if you put those motions together, you can file one and the other, you can tie each other up and say to the other: talk about that law nicely, then we call on the minister to do beautiful things in the future. That's what it looks like. Let me now turn to the content and, in particular, to the specialists. Fifteen years ago we said this, after a discussion and recommendations. The last recommendation left is this one. We asked for it ourselves. Of course, even now we can refer to reports again. Mr Rutte mentions four more, and I can also oppose a number of them. But when all those patient organizations, who are dealing daily with those people who are waiting for that call, say: do this! There will always be objections. Mistakes will be made. And certainly, there will be incidents in the future. I do not deny all that, but we all look at the current situation and say: that is insufferable! Even a show on TV, which everyone falls over and which we have had urgent debates about, will bring 12,000 new applications. They're good for one organ. You need 10,000 donors for one organ. That's the responsibility. You shouldn't beat each other up with reports. You shouldn't file easy motions with the two of you because you're having a bit of a hard time with the bill that's in front of you. Submit those motions, but not at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr Pechtold is free to make a very emotional speech and to let that shine on me like I am not taking my work seriously here in this emotional debate. Let me be honest: I find that a little presumptuous. This does not do justice to the serious discussion we are having here and certainly not to the complex consideration that has been made within the VVD in relation to this dossier. It is essential and crucial that we look closely at getting more organs available in the Netherlands, but above all that we get the waiting lists shorter. For that, not every means is allowed. There should still be a proper review. We have said that we consider the right of self-determination to be extremely important. In our opinion, this is being violated by the applicant's bill. I think that is quite an important principle. In addition, I think it is extremely essential that we look at thorough reports that say something about the effectiveness of this system. Those aren't things. It is not one report; it is no less than four reports. Over and over again the waiting list gets shorter when we tackle the registration system. Up to four times it is recorded that this is not at all certain. Then it can be said with a lot of emotion 'you have to do that', but it really matters to me in the end. I wouldn't take myself seriously if I didn't look at those reports. That's why I'm sticking to this judgment. In the VVD there is freedom to deviate from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u76	I am pleased to note that it is at least a free matter within the VVD Group to consider. That's noted. I'll come back to effectiveness. I have already asked Mr Rutte whether there is a country in which a 'yes, unless' has been changed to a 'no, unless' system? Mr Rutte said he does not know that. Later it became clear that we only know countries that have switched from a "no, unless" system to a "no objection" system or a "yes, unless" system, a variant of the ADR. Isn't that a much stronger argument to conclude that the ADR system or a variant of it may be the most effective, as practice shows in all these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u77	The problem of too long waiting lists of people waiting for a donor body is not unique to our country and plays in many countries. Many countries are looking for methods and systems to reduce these waiting lists. It seems so logical: if we register as many people as possible automatically or if we switch to a no-objection system, then there will be more organs. It is not very strange that in the search for abbreviated waiting lists these kinds of systems are chosen, but that doesn't have to mean "that's what else it turns out to be an effective choice." It appears to be very different from one country to another. Many of the studies that I have quoted before also show that very often the standing practice and the influence of the relatives remain decisive. That influence is very strong in the Netherlands. With the ADR system, I believe that there is even less clarity for the next of kin. That's why I don't think we should do it. The fact that a lot of countries are going on that road is understandable, but it does not necessarily have to be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u78	No, but I note that no country that has taken that step, ten, fifteen, twenty years later, comes to the conclusion that it has to go back to the old system. We also see that in some of these countries the number of donors per million inhabitants has increased considerably over time. Recent figures show that Spain has gone almost to 40 donors per million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u79	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u80	That's two and a half times as much as in the Netherlands. Imagine if this were the case in the Netherlands. The practice there has shown that it works, despite all the differences that exist. The four studies mentioned by Mr Rutte, it is good that he has studied them, and cannot compete with reality in other countries. Surely we have to conclude that the system in the Netherlands is not working enough? Otherwise, we would not have been here in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u81	There are waiting lists, also abroad. That's a tragedy for everyone who's involved. It will remain a search for possibilities to shorten the waiting lists. Mr Van Gerven mentions Spain. For decades, that country has been extremely successful in getting organ donors registered and in cases where people were not registered, to obtain permission from next of kin. That was already the case when Spain had the system as we still know it in the Netherlands. That has changed to a no-objection system and that has led to a small additional increase. We must not forget, however, that this is why we must be so careful with comparisons with other countries, such as Spain, where doctors are paid for organ donations. We do not know that at all in the Netherlands and really is a fundamental difference. So the international comparison can say something about effectiveness, but it cannot explain everything. I think it is very important that we look at the research that has been done in our country, many studies that take account of our own culture and our system of values and standards. They predict that even this change is unlikely to lead to an increase. This is quite apart from the fundamental objections I have already raised on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u82	The Panteia study was based on a theoretical analysis, which was therefore not based on practice. Panteia has a much more positive opinion of the next of kin than is apparent from current practice. This means that the research is of enormous value. That was a crucial study in the debate we have had so far. We can see that there is a need to change that. The argument that both systems are more or less equally effective would have to be put down a little less firmly. In most countries there is in practice a non-objection system and the yield is higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u83	We're spinning around in circles a little bit. I have referred not only to the Panteia research, which still meets the scientific standards, but also to three other studies, the design of which is good, but the outcome of which may be different from what Mr Van Gerven had wanted. If it had been any different, I'd have been honest with you. These are the four studies carried out in the Netherlands. I have come across no conclusions other than that change in the system due to the relationship with the next of kin is largely or perhaps completely nullified. This could even lead to less organ donors, if there is less clarity for the next of kin than in the current system. That's about effectiveness. I find the comparison with abroad very difficult, even if only because the proposed system is fundamentally different from the systems that apply abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u85	I was almost done. I have a final paragraph, but an important one. As I said, the debate on organ donation must not be silenced. The VVD will remain fully committed to this important dossier. We will continue to look at technical, organisational and communicative innovations to ensure that the waiting lists actually get smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the answers they have given in the first term. In discussing Mrs Dijkstra's initiative law, we were able to hold an interesting and worthy debate on a difficult issue, on which too many people depend, and not only on the quality of life. For too many people in our society, the debate on organ donation, if there are no more organs, is literally a matter of life and death. Self-determination is a great asset for my group, as it is for many groups in this Chamber. Having self-determination and the freedom to choose seem inextricably linked. We are free to register ourselves as a donor, not to do so, to leave it to the family, to postpone it or to wait and see. In the Labour Party it is also deeply felt that self-determination is always in relation to the responsibility that exists for people who have suffered worse in life. For my party, this has led us to support the ADR system, because it offers the greatest chance of more organ donors. If we continue to make every effort as we do now through specialised units in hospitals, with information on lifelong donation and research into innovations, if we all continue to do the same, then it will not produce more organs. In the first period, we have discussed in detail a large group of people who do want to be donors, but do not take action on them. In the event of death, the family takes care of the uncertainty and decides that there will be no donation. Hope is based on that group, because it will most likely explicitly choose to be a donor in the ADR system. The Labour Party believes that the initiator has shown once again in the first term how important it is that we shift the wheel. I do have a number of questions about the impact. First of all, I would like to highlight once again the position of functionally incompetents. Much has been said about it, and that is also important, because it is essential. I have also said in the first term that there is a substantial difference in the position of functionally incompetent, such as low-literate, and unskilled. For the low-literate, however difficult it may be, I would like to point out that it is not easy to see what technique could still be achieved if it could not be achieved through the written word. Solutions such as image and sound, graphical solutions, icons will quickly come into sight. The Labour Party agrees with that, especially now that the Foundation for Low Literature has offered to help in this. However, in the case of non-skills, the decision is moved to those who are allowed to speak on behalf of these people. I find that difficult because it is not always clear that this is a final solution. From a more protective point of view, I would like to ask the initiator whether she does not see any other options for this, such as actively and explicitly excluding the possibility of donating. Where are the bottlenecks if the initiativer would have chosen not to present the choice but, more actively than at present, to protect them from this difficult decision? This is what happens in subjects for medication. In my first term, I mentioned it. The Labour Party considers this an important point and would like to hear Mrs Dijkstra again about it. It was also suggested in the first term that the number of donations would decrease with life, so that post-mortem donations would increase. I was very surprised by that argument. Excuse me, I'm saying it wrong. I'm just gonna start over, 'cause I'm messing up. It was also suggested in the first term that the number of donations would decrease with life, as post-mortem donations would increase. I was very surprised by that argument. I didn't know it. Now it doesn't say everything if I don't know something, but I'm curious how the initiator looks at it. So I would like to get a response on this point. The Labour Party has noticed that many research results have passed in the first period. In the second term, I heard that this has not only been noticed by the Labour Party. Perhaps we have all focused on the results that would best support our own speech, but on the Panteia study, which has already been mentioned a lot, almost all patient organisations say that it is raging. I think we should take this criticism seriously. I would like to stress once again here, and I have done so in the first period, that arguments based on this poor investigation should not play a role in the debate. So I say to Mr Rutte: you do not have four investigations to quote, but three. And against those three studies we could also put three others, with a positive connotation. Again, I am not concerned about this, but I do think it is important to talk about it on the basis of data that is good. I'm rounding up. All the cards for this debate have been shaken in advance by the disappointing attitude of the CDA. I find this extremely regrettable from the bottom of my heart, even if only because I had given a voice to the CDA electorate, who is in favour of the ADR system. A voice that had given more hope to the deadly fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-8.u87	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The second answer will take place at a later date, of course in good consultation with the initiator, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. I thank her and her support, the Chamber and, of course, the Minister.
