ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week it came to light that 38 psychiatric patients are staying in TBs institutions without a criminal conviction. How long have they been staying there? Why are they sitting there? How is their safety guaranteed in the TBS clinic? Does the Minister consider it justified that vulnerable patients should be prevented from being locked up in a TBS clinic because of potentially dangerous behaviour? What criteria are used to transfer patients and when does the Minister consider that acceptable? Are the rights of ggz patients being violated here, as there is no criminal conviction? Do these patients lose the freedoms they do have within a ggz institution, or are those freedoms unduly restricted and lead to legal inequality? Do patients who are aggressive and may pose a risk sometimes reside in each ggz setting? What does the Minister think about the fact that ggz institutions cannot or do not want to provide the necessary security and what is this about? What's the Minister gonna do about it? Is a transfer always accompanied by agreements on the duration of the transfer and the treatment to be followed? Then how come a patient has been in a TBs clinic for five years without a conviction? How do we prevent this from being a shear system, while the emphasis should be on optimizing treatment and not on security? How is funding arranged in these cases? Do ggz settings buy places at a TBS clinic? I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Each year 10,000 permits are issued for the BOPZ and 6,000 conditional permits are issued. Of these patients, 38 are in a TBs clinic, because they cannot be maintained in an ordinary institution. So those are the most violent and aggressive patients. This is done to protect these patients themselves and other patients and their caregivers. Policy aims to treat as much as possible in ggz institutions themselves, but in the end it is sometimes in the interests of patients themselves or in the interests of fellow patients, to include them in a TBs clinic, because they are used to dealing with severely aggressive patients. It is very clear that BOPZ patients, wherever they are received, have the same rights everywhere. They have these rights on the basis of the law and those rights are the same regardless of whether they are in a ggz institution or whether they are being treated in a TBS clinic. For example, each patient has a right to a patient's confidence. I think it is very important that we keep open the possibility of being admitted to a TBs clinic for the reception of BOPZ patients as a last resort function. If patients are really unmaintainable in a ggz clinic, you always have a last resort function in a TBS clinic. Currently, patients are spread over five TBs clinics. In total seven TB clinics with some regularity receive BOPZ patients. I have launched three actions to ensure that we do as little as possible in TBs clinics and as much as possible in ggz institutions themselves, because that is what we prefer. I have made an agreement with the regional mayors in the context of the plan of approach to identify where the bottlenecks for regular ggz are, either in capacity or in funding. In addition, the Continuity of Care programme will run from 1 April. This programme also examines the problem areas of these difficult-to-maintain patients. With Zorgverzekerings Nederland, GGZ Nederland and the NZa we are inventorying what institutions encounter when moving to a safer setting within the ggz. The improvement measures that will result from this need to be implemented by the summer. The funding goes as follows. The ggz is moving on to a TBS clinic. The TBs clinic shall submit an account to the ggz institution and shall reimburse the costs, depending on the contract with the health insurance provider. We don't think this is always going well. We therefore want this to be improved. The NZa is working on an automatic fee for these clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thanks for the answer so far. If I understand the Minister correctly, there are no harsh criteria. It is said that it is about the most violent people who cannot be enforced. I think it's a difference if someone's like that in a psychosis or if he's always like that. I do not now hear that there is any difference. If someone behaves that way during a psychotic period, will he come back soon? I am also very curious to know which ggz settings allow patients to be transferred to tbs settings. Can we get an overview of that? I wonder whether it is a lot of different institutions or whether they are always the same. What does the Minister think of the proposal that psychiatric institutions should differentiate in levels of protection so that they can also treat and treat aggressive patients? How will the Minister's policy contribute to this? Will the introduction of the Law on compulsory mental health care soon help to put an end to this type of recording? Will that law soon ensure that people who are confused and aggressive get proper care in a regular ggz setting or will they automatically go to a tbs setting? Is there a protocol for ggz patients who are being forwarded and, if so, between which parties? Who will ensure that all parties comply with this? If there's a protocol, I'd like the Minister to send this to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Whether you transfer a patient to a TBs clinic is customization. A setting without a secure setting will do this more often than a setting where such a setting is. The transfer is highly dependent on what the institution can offer. In this area, tailor-made work is very important. There is, of course, supervision. The IGZ supervises care in ggz institutions. The Department of Security and Justice oversees the TBS clinics. Together they supervise BOPZ patients in the TBs clinics. So does the IGZ. With the Law on compulsory mental health care, things are going to change. The BOPZ is an incarceration law. All you can do is take people in on the basis of that law. You can't necessarily treat people. The law on compulsory ggz also gives us the opportunity to treat people against their will. That will solve a lot, because at a much earlier stage you can actually treat people where you now have to wait for everything to escalate and someone completely freaks out before you can necessarily record them. I think that the mandatory ggz Act can improve a lot, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm sure it's a very important law. It is also very much awaited from the field. However, I wonder whether it is not a habit to send people who are included under that law to a TBs institution by default, given that they are often a danger to others and themselves. I just asked if there are any harsh criteria. There aren't any. I'd like to know if it's gonna make a difference and who's gonna control it. Someone who's aggressive and violent in a psychosis might have two days and the right treatment just stay where he is. Or isn't that made a difference at all? How do people sometimes spend five years in a tbs institution? Are they so aggressive that they can no longer stay in an ordinary ggz setting? I do not think that is very clear. I would also like to hear about the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u6	10,000 people are required to be admitted per year under the BOPZ Act and a further 6,000 on probation. There's 38 people in a TBs clinic. This indicates that it is not a standard policy. It is not a single psychosis, because ggz institutions often have to deal with it. It is really about seriously aggressive and violent patients, which a ggz institution has no way of knowing at the time. I've checked what that's about and whether the group has grown. That is not the case. A lot more people came in through criminal law. They ended up in a TBS clinic through criminal law. Now see that people enter less through criminal law, but that the same group enters the institutions much more through care as a heavy, aggressive patient. You actually see a change there. There is no protocol, because some ggz institutions can accommodate these clients themselves. Others can't, because they don't have that secure setting. Sending them to TBs clinics. Of course, there are treatment protocols for how to deal with a patient who wants to be treated. You don't even have to. A patient can categorically refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u7	You will have one final sentence, Mrs. Tanamal. You have 14 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's about protocol. I continue to find it difficult for patients to be pushed forward in such a way that there is no hard place to meet now, except that someone is violent and aggressive. You can still discuss how serious that is. It seems logical to me that there is a protocol: who is involved, who is informed, what are people's rights? I regret that there is no such thing, and I ask the Minister whether there is any possibility of doing anything with it or at least examining the possibilities for doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u9	People's rights are enshrined in the law. That doesn't depend on where you were taken, whether that's in a TBs clinic or in a ggz clinic. I called the inspection and said that there is a request from the Chamber to draw up a protocol. The inspection says that this is incredibly difficult, because it requires customization. Assessing whether an intake is right or not really requires that the individual patient be looked at. However, it is important that supervision is carried out. The inspection actively supervises, together with the Safety and Justice Inspectorate, whether a patient is rightly still in treatment or whether that treatment is no longer justified. A recording on the basis of the BOPZ also requires the judge. It's not like anyone can just sit behind closed doors without anyone ever looking at it again. A recording based on the BOPZ is initiated through the judge. After that, what the judge has agreed will be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs Tanamal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u11	If you have to be admitted to mental health care through the intervention of the judge, there's really something going on. No one will deny that, of course. But that you can get into a clinic where prisoners are being treated, which is a completely different criterion why people are sitting there, I wouldn't call that a ggz's last resort. That's what I'd call bankruptcy of the ggz. We must ensure that people who are not convicted, but who can be a danger to themselves and their environment, are in a treatment setting and not in a penal setting. Doesn't the Minister say that a TBS institution is a last resort for the ggz, but will she promise here that she will talk to the ggz about how to prevent TBS clinics from being used? Because I think that is the best outcome of this little Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think it's important that patients get the best place they need at the time. That can sometimes also be a TBs clinic, especially since two of the TBs clinics that do it have a separate department for these patients. So that's not where those patients are mixed with prisoners. In that case, this can certainly be a burden resort, because there are the knowledge and expertise to deal with very aggressive patients. Wherever you have clinics where you're mixed up, we'd rather not. That is why the three actions just mentioned have been launched. We are looking at the bottlenecks that make it impossible for ggz institutions and for solutions to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you.
