ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Resistance to neoliberal trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA is growing every day. People do not want treaties that undermine democracy, with multinationals that are given the right to sue countries. People do not want treaties that open the door to unfair competition with a race to the bottom in terms of working conditions and food safety. That's why thousands of people went out on Saturday in Amsterdam. That is why numerous organisations protest, such as FNV, CNV, Consumentenbond and Milieudefensie. A farce is now taking place in Brussels. The European elite are in all corners to take the treaty through. We see an ultimatum that Brussels itself does not comply with, because negotiations are still taking place. We see the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schulz, who is trying to save the treaty and is therefore totally out of line. As far as we are concerned, the man is completely unfit for his duties. Does the Minister understand the broad resistance to these wrong treaties, not only of the brave Waalen, but of millions of people going out on the streets of Europe? Does the Minister recognise that this cannot be repaired with an additional statement that amounts to a sweetener? Is the Minister prepared to go back to the drawing board and reset the negotiations on this kind of money, as she herself calls it? If Brussels does not listen to the protest, an amended CETA Convention will have to be resubmitted to the parliaments of the Member States. Does the Minister agree? Is the Minister prepared to sign a referendum on CETA so that we can see if there is real support for this strangulation agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van Dijk for his comments and questions. They're not new; I know his position. My answer to his question as to whether I would like to conclude such a treaty with which people have problems is simply no. We have discussed very often in the Chamber what the nature of that treaty is, what it is intended to do, where the profits of that treaty will fall to a large extent among Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises, and that Canada is precisely a country with which we organized a race to the top rather than the opposite. Mr Van Dijk and I want the same thing on this point. Mr Van Dijk's comments on the way in Brussels concerning the Convention concern his observation. We live happily in a free country, so we can find that. I see that from the Member States, of which 27 now wish to sign the treaty, there is talk with the Commission, but also with the Belgian Government and the Walloon Government about the objections raised by the Walloon Government. Standing here I just received a message that the Belgian Government is again in conversation. That's what we're waiting for. I come to the status of the treaty. Here in the Chamber, we have discussed in detail what we think is right about the Treaty and how it should or could be improved. The Chamber has sent me to Brussels on a regular basis with a list of 'to do' items. I very much liked to have done that, because I share the concerns of the Chamber. Since the first debate, I believe that there have been 20 debates in which we have talked about this. As far as I am concerned, there is now a treaty under which the Dutch Government can sign with the support of the Dutch Parliament. We await discussions within the Belgian Government and between the Belgian Government and the European Commission. The questions asked by Mr Van Dijk are therefore not on our plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	The minister's playing a little nice weather, like nothing's going on. In the meantime, however, it is well aware that such an international court where multinationals can make millions of claims to Member States if those policies make what they do not like is still simply part of the CETA Convention. That's not out of the question. There's a great deal of concern about that. So the Minister should not pretend that all kinds of concessions have been made and everyone can go to sleep quietly now. That's not true. In addition, the minister in the newspaper announces that we must never do this again, this kind of delay as TTIP and CETA; we need to reset the negotiations and from now on we are going to put them together with broad support in society. That didn't work out. If the Minister were brave, she would say: listen, I see this spectacle, this is a farce; we will stop this and from now on we will make fairer trade agreements for which there is also support. Is she willing to take a brave step and say: we stop with CETA and we go back to the drawing board?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would remind you that, in my opinion, it was the Labour Party, GroenLinks and also the SP who said two years ago: Minister, investigate the dispute settlement mechanism, because we do not like it. That's the investigation we did. We have noted that the Chamber does not like it, but the government certainly does not like it either. A new proposal was then put forward. The negotiations with Canada, which were concluded, have been reopened again. Canada has supported that proposal from the European Commission. Not only has Canada accepted its operation, but we have also agreed that we will continue to work on a multilateral court. I would therefore like to say the following to Mr Van Dijk. There were objections and we discussed them. The Netherlands has played a leading role in not only the setting-up of alternatives, but also in the promotion of alternatives. If Mr Van Dijk says that nothing has happened, then that is factually incorrect. CETA, as far as I am concerned, was also discussed last week, and this is a major step in the direction that we must take. We have also had discussions with Canada on what further development can be achieved under a living treaty. I'm looking forward to that. I know that a number of points are also on Mr Van Dijk's agenda, and I look forward to constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	Difficult words cannot hide the fact that that court is still in the CETA Convention. It has now become the International Court System. Beautiful. There is good propaganda about this, but it remains a tribunal where Canadian companies and American companies that have a branch in Canada can go to sue the Netherlands if we make policies the way our people want us to. We think that's outrageous. That's what the Walls are angry about. They want that out, but they didn't. It is true that this has been modified, but the core is standing. Are you prepared to acknowledge that the planning of the approval of the CETA Convention has completely failed? The treaty should be signed tomorrow, but not all Member States agree: Belgium is not in agreement thanks to the Walls. Does the Minister recognise that it has failed and support a referendum so that we can check whether there is real support for this controversial treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am always in favour of a spicy debate, especially with Mr Van Dijk. But I do not like it very much. I say straight away that Mr Van Dijk presents a presentation of things which he knows is not right. He would know that because we have debated it twenty times and we have written letters to the House about it. The freedom of policy and the freedom of countries to make democratically legitimised decisions stand proudly, in whatever abbreviation. So let me say it again to Mr Van Dijk: we can have a difference of opinion on this, but let us not abuse the truth. It is true that one Member State has not yet been able to sign the Convention. Mr Trudeau will be coming to Brussels next Thursday for the EU Summit. I don't think he's canceled his flight so far, and the time difference works in our favor. We shall await the outcome of the talks between the Belgian sub-governments. That's up to Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	The fact that a number of parties in this Parliament want to destroy free trade, as well as the Dutch economy, is up to now. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. In the EU case concerning the Singapore Convention, a ruling was delivered by the Court of Justice in Luxenburg. Does the Minister consider it possible for the Dutch Government to take the view that it should have always been, namely that it is an EU-only treaty and that it can still be quickly signed? After all, it is scandalous that we leave the Canadians in the cold. It is a neat country, we have been trading with it in a good way and now we leave the Canadians in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	If the Court decides that the Singapore Treaty should only be approved by the European Parliament and therefore not by the 28 national parliaments, Mr Bitch is referring to the European Parliament, then we are going to examine that ruling. Of course, that's the decent answer. But I would remind Mr Teeven that the House of Representatives sent a letter to the European Commission stating the view of this Parliament that it should be a mixed agreement. I therefore propose that I return to the Chamber as soon as that statement is made, in accordance with the proper path we must take in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	Do you know what would be decent right now? It would be decent if Brussels simply respected Wallonia's completely democratically elected government. Wallonia shows that it is democratically vital and shows great political courage by saying that it does not want this free trade agreement. Then we see that Brussels, with all possible means, I dare almost not say it, but it just seems to be blackmail................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We see in the press that this is happening improperly. Does the Minister not think that she should tell Brussels and all those bureaucrats there that they should respect the Walls in their democratic decision-making rather than using improper means to strike the Walls?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	My view of a vital democracy is not that it is a democracy that is necessarily doing what I like. Having said that, and as I understand the situation, we also spoke a lot with colleagues on Tuesday last Tuesday, of course, the Walloons themselves took the initiative to start and continue discussions, to express their objections, and to seek support from Brussels and Canada for the resolution of those objections. As I understand it, I shall leave it neutrally worded, and there have been proposals that, if the Walls think so, could satisfy some of their objections. Those conversations are still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	So suddenly there is room for re-negotiation again, apparently only with Wallonia. Next Thursday, all 27 other Member States will have to agree to this without being seen. Is that democracy? Is Brussels working in such a way that negotiations are being held with the Walls and that the other Member States in the national parliaments are no longer able to have a fundamental discussion on what exactly came out of these negotiations on this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	As far as I know, there is no question of the negotiations being reopened unless that changes this afternoon. There has been talk with the Walls about the statement, which we have also discussed here in the Chamber. Even then, I said that this statement, its content and the points highlighted in it, also zoomed in on the concerns of at least the majority of the Chamber. I'm just waiting to see how negotiations with the Walls are going to develop. I still owe the Chamber the report of last Tuesday's IAZ. As soon as there is something really new to report which leads to some kind of final result, I will send that report to the Court without delay with that latest state of affairs and its appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to know from the Minister how she is judging the incredible circus and the enormous haste to try suddenly to get the chops across the ditch, while the plane has already left Canada, finally to come to the signing of the agreement. Does the Minister agree with me that it is precisely this way of doing things and this whole thing around it that is contributing to yet again unimaginable damage to public opinion's confidence in the functioning of the European Union, which, for that reason alone, should not be the subject of this stress and should be chosen for calmer sailing waters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	I see this somewhat differently from Mr Grashoff. This treaty was discussed in 28 parliaments. In most parliaments, like here, that will rightly not have been the case once. Of these 28 parliaments, 27 said: we fought hard for our points, the treaty has been amended, a declaration has been added and we agree with the treaty and the declaration. One of these parliaments has difficulties with a number of points and would like to discuss them further. Then there will be the meeting. It seems to me that this is how it should be, because you do not want to push aside the objections of that 28th Member State. At least I wouldn't want to do that, but you also want to do justice to the fact that 27 Member States have already said that they would like to sign this treaty. So it seems to me that's how it's supposed to go. It's true that there's no time for that for weeks, but I'm relying on a happy ending. I think it is right that the Walls should be heard by everyone, the Commission and the Canadians, because that is what it is supposed to be in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	I find this answer rather bizarre. Let us move into the position of the Walloon Parliament for a moment. After a referendum, we did not have a judgment, not to my satisfaction, but a judgment on the Ukraine Treaty. Suppose, then, from the European Union, with statements by Presidents, it would be pressed to try within a week to overrule all of that in order to finally pull that one cross-country through the pump. What would our own Prime Minister have thought of that? What would our own cabinet have thought of that? What would our parliament have thought of that? This isn't a show, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think we're wandering. The situation is that the Walloon Parliament has informed the Belgian Government: we do not agree. At the initiative of the Belgians, talks started at the initiative of the Walloons. The Walls have also spoken to the Canadians. The Commission is also being discussed. The Waalen are really capable, and man enough, to say it themselves if the way that happens, they don't like it. So far, I haven't heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Despite all the understandable emotions on all sides about this particular situation, I just want to ask the Minister a simple question about the future of trade agreements. That question is: does the Minister think that in future it is still possible for the European Union to conclude a trade agreement with another country in the world, bearing in mind that there is a good chance that one of the most progressive, social and progressive democracies led by one of the most left-wing leaders in the world will not succeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	Here again, it is presented differently than I present it. I just heard that it wouldn't work to conclude the treaty with Canada. I don't draw that conclusion at all. Another point that I would like to make is that it is a good thing to discuss this further. We have already discussed this in the Chamber: what accents would we like to place in the Netherlands? I have already said that I am going to set up a broad trade council, with trade unions, civil society organisations, businesses and consumer organisations. The Netherlands will continue to work for trade agreements. Those are really important: 2.2 million jobs in the Netherlands - one third of our jobs - depend on international trade. Helping trade agreements to facilitate trade. That is, I say with some emphasis, something other than a race to the bottom, as it is called in English. On the contrary, it is a way of raising standards. In that light, I would welcome it if we could conclude the agreement with Canada. Canada is a partner with which we can develop further, within the framework of the Treaty as it stands, but also within the framework of a living and future-oriented treaty, in the direction we want.
