ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. That's totally correct. As early as April 2014, Marga Bult gave us the blackbook on mobile coverage, especially in border regions, but also the mobile range of 112. We all know that every second counts. On the initiative of the CDA, a hearing on this important subject was held in September 2014. This resulted in a large number of actions and then in May 2015 we had the debate with the Minister of Economic Affairs and not with the Secretary of State who is here today, in which he promised to do his job for where it goes wrong with mobile accessibility and with 112. That is why we are a little surprised by the news that at least dozens of villages still have very little mobile reach and mobile internet. I am pleased that the Secretary of State would like to answer questions about this, because does he recognise the picture that is being drawn up by the NIS? How does the Secretary of State explain that there are still so many problems in these municipalities and that there are still major regional differences? Is the message from the Heart Foundation also correct that the range in some areas is so bad that aid sometimes comes too late, as was also shown in the message from the NOS? We think that is a very serious matter. If you can't reach 112 already and the driving times in the region are so bad, especially with us in Drenthe, but also in other regions of the country too, you're at a double disadvantage. North Brabant and Drenthe score poorly in terms of mobile accessibility. How should we weigh that up with the number of antenna towers there, according to the Telecom Agency? How should it be improved so that we are actually going to see steps? The Minister's commitment is to talk to a municipality if there are any problems, whether on the border, on the Veluwe, the Wadden Islands or in Zeeland. They can also report that to the Minister. At the beginning of this year we received a letter from the Minister, in which he sketches an image that is moving in the right direction. That's actually quite contrary to what we're all reading here. So we would like to hear more from the Secretary of State on this issue. What is this cabinet going to do to make that progress real now? This is taking way too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Of course, this falls within the portfolio of the Minister, but as a former spokesman in the Chamber on this subject, I am very pleased to be able to answer this question. It is a survey of the NIS and regional broadcasters, who have asked to let us know if there are problems with mobile telephony. Indeed, the survey showed that people are not satisfied in a number of places in the Netherlands. There were some signals that were not unknown to us either, because it is of course known that there are problems with network coverage in a number of municipalities. In general, mobile coverage in the Netherlands is very good and perhaps one of the very best. She is of superior quality, but Mrs Mulder is right to say that we are so used to mobile telephony and the mobile Internet that we always want to be accessible everywhere. The difficulty here is that it is not technically possible to be accessible anytime and anywhere. Sometimes the weather has its influence, sometimes the building and sometimes the vegetation. The presence of trees can even affect and unfortunately sometimes also the quality of your mobile phone. Not every cell phone has an equally strong antenna. The Minister carried out a survey in the context of the reachability of 112 in 2015, which showed that the reachability of the emergency number was around 99%. Despite all the technical problems that sometimes exist, the accessibility is very good. However, local improvement is possible; that is correct. The Telecom Agency has indicated its willingness to look with municipalities at what is needed for this. Sometimes this means that municipalities have to ensure that there is the possibility to place extra masts, for example. Sometimes that encounters resistance locally, but extra masts can offer a solution in certain situations. The Chamber may discuss this further with the Minister in general consultation on 21 December. Before that, the Chamber will also receive the Note Frequency Policy 2016. In the course of next year, the Chamber will receive the Strategic Note Mobile Communication. The conditions for future auctions of frequencies can also be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	Of course, it is very good that action is being taken, but a general note on the frequency policy gives the people in Westervelde, Saint-Oedenrode, Neerijnen, Bronckhorst, Baarle-Nassau, Zaltbommel, Tynaarlo, Medemblik, Berkelland, Weststellingwerf, Marum and Vlagtwedde all municipalities that make calls to me. I would like the Secretary of State for the AO Telecom of 21 December to send a concrete letter with a clear overview of what problems are being tackled where. Then the people will know where they stand. Sometimes they have to go outside to see if they might have just gotten a signal somewhere in the neighborhood. I don't think that's what this time of year is anymore. This creates a kind of digital divide between residents. We also see this in the area of fast internet. Together with Mr Oosenbrug, I am also committed to this. We just shouldn't have people out there doing it with less. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. That's really not from these days. We hope that in the letter before the AO, the Secretary of State will clearly address the situation in the municipalities on the list, at least from the top ten, but preferably from all the municipalities, and that there will be a concrete action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	I myself live in The Hague, yet a city with very good coverage, but I also don't have reach everywhere in the house. This simply has to do with the technology of mobile telephony. A cell phone signal can't penetrate everywhere, not everywhere in your home, and sometimes not outside. These technical problems cannot be overcome by the government, however much I would like the government to be able to solve these technical problems. We can ask the mobile operators, and we do so, to set up the network so that they make such problems as small as possible. If you look at the network quality in the Netherlands, you can see that they do the same. Yet the operators say that they sometimes look for opportunities to improve the connection. That takes very precise customization. This means that you sometimes have to add a mast in a certain place, for which you don't always get your hands on each other locally. So it also helps if the municipalities that find that they have places where the range is not good enough, together with the operators go to the table to see where a mast may need to be placed, and cooperate with it. I have already said that the Telecom Agency is prepared to look with the municipalities at what is needed to further improve the network. 100% coverage will never be possible. The accessibility of 112, for example, is 99%. That's very good. Where improvement is possible, it is a question of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	I had hoped that the Secretary of State would be a little more specific about the progress by municipality and the problem in the letter we are going to get as a Chamber. If you're in Saint-Oedenrode with complaints for which you need 112, you're in a hurry. The cabinet has to work on that. Then you don't come by saying: I sometimes don't have reception in my house. You can do a lot of technical work in your home to improve that. There are all kinds of possibilities for that. Make sure that information in this area gets better. Go together with the providers and the municipalities to plan what needs to be done in the municipalities where there are the greatest concerns and problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	We are therefore very willing to do so, including from the Telecom Agency, as I indicated. I understand how annoying it is, because I also prefer to be accessible always and everywhere, but the reality is that it can't always be everywhere. It is up to providers to realize the range wherever it can, and so do they. Mrs Mulder dismissed the Note Frequency Policy as a note that we are discussing in a month's time, but that is an important note which deals precisely with the development of mobile telecommunications in the Netherlands in the coming years. So that is an important strategic note for next year. The consultation on 21 November is an important consultation, especially on the points raised by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you.
