ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Pia Dijkstra to section K. She is supported by Sophie Meijer, I also welcome her. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport again. She will have to be happy because of her voice that she doesn't have to say so much today and just listen. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mrs Dijkstra for all the work she has done. There is an enormous amount of time and energy invested in this initiative law and a compliment is certainly appropriate, especially given the nature of this subject that has concerned Dutch society for decades. It's really about something. I can't imagine many moments when I got so excited about D66 and a bill. With the inclusion of an active donor registration system, this proposal to amend the Organ Donation Act represents an important step towards more donors and fewer people waiting for an organ. It's exactly 50 years since the first organ transplant was performed, a historic moment. It is also exactly 20 years since we adopted the current law on organ donation in parliament. Unfortunately, the law that we now know and all other initiatives have not led to sufficient donors for years. In fact, the number of donors has hardly increased in recent years. Still, the number of people waiting for an organ varies around 1,300 and some people are on the waiting list so long that they die before they get an organ. In 2011 there were 146 people waiting and every year we see such figures; these are three people who could have died if there had been enough organs. Everyone agrees: more organ donors are needed. A few years ago, the Coordination Group on Organ Donation conducted an investigation into this. The conclusion was that we can only achieve a sufficient increase in the number of donors if we comply with each of the following five proposals: opting for the active donor registration system, further improvement of quality in hospitals, positive, more content-oriented information to citizens, attention to life donation and monitoring of impacts. Four of these five points were taken over and actions were launched. A master plan was launched with the aim of increasing the number of donors by 25%. Now we are a number of years ahead and this plan has not so far led to the desired increase in the number of donors and donor bodies. We see all sorts of numbers passing by and one explains them a little bit sister, the other a little bit like that. The overall conclusion, however, is that it is insufficient and that we are not getting there with current policies and with the current steps. We note this on the one hand, while research shows that the introduction of an active donor registration system can lead to a 15% increase in the number of donors. This is a structural increase in the number of organs and the number of lives saved. This is a result that has not been achieved with all the activities so far. The expected increase of 25% has not been achieved at all. Some figures indicate that there are more donors and that the number of organs has increased, but the rules for admission have been extended. On the basis of the old figures, we have to note that we are not achieving enough at the moment. Many initiatives have been taken and millions of euros have been invested, but still some 60% of people have not registered, either as donors or as non-donors. So much effort with so little result: how can we explain that? I think we need to push for results. We all know a way that works. It is said that the effects of an active donor registration system, which is in itself a new variant of the "yes, unless" system, have not been demonstrated. However, in the countries around us you see a development towards the 'yes, unless' system, and usually no development in the other direction, from 'no, unless' to 'yes, unless'. In most countries that have switched to the "yes, unless" system, over the years there has been an increase in the number of donors. This while in the countries with "no, unless," including the Netherlands, it doesn't really get along. We need to realize that. I understand the load of the discussion, because it's really about something. If we make a proposal, we must, on the one hand, monitor ethical standards and principles and, on the other hand, monitor the effectiveness of the measure. If the current system is inadequate, we need to think very carefully about it. If we were to move to an active donor registration system, we should, of course, make it clear to people what it is about and give them the opportunity to express their objection to organ donation. If people do not object, I think it is right to assume that they have no objection in the majority. Research also shows that a majority of people are in favour of giving organs. The figures change a bit, but there is always a large majority for such a system. Then you can assume that out of the 60% of non-registered people that is a very large group of people is probably a majority for such an active donor registration, but doesn't take that step in one way or another? Research shows that the reasons for this are very different. There is, of course, discussion as to whether the theorem, which I post here, is correct. That is why I ask the applicant of the law to go into this again. If people have received a letter, another letter and another letter, how do we know that people have consciously made that choice or are not aware of it? How can we ensure that in the present bill? Also a point of attention is the following. The applicant has chosen for two times six weeks. This is in line with the standard that is common in the General Administrative Law Act. Has it also considered a different period that might be able to meet the concerns of certain groups in society? It's an important decision. Can you make such a decision in three months? I've already talked about the tacit consent. Okay, I'm gonna give it a little more thought. The applicant states that after the third letter the following can be concluded: it can reasonably be assumed that those who do not use the opportunity to register actively agree that they are registered as donors. That's a tough one for me. I'm in favour of it, but is that fact enough argument to assume that people are in favour of it? Can the applicant go into that further and give a more precise explanation? I come to another point that the SP has already proposed. Isn't it possible to build in a moment when people go to town hall for a driver's license or a passport? People are always required to go there. They're gonna need a driver's license or an ID. Can that moment not be used to allow people to make a choice for or against giving an organ? Often they are young people who come at such a time. Somehow we need to institutionalize it a little more. I ask the applicant, but also the Minister, whether further proposals can be drawn up on this point in order to achieve the objective that we all have. According to the initiator, in the system proposed by her, there is still the possibility not to choose for herself but to let the next of kin choose. However, the right not to choose or not to choose is different from the right to leave that choice to others. I'd like to hear a response to this. I'm gonna get to the wiles. I can well imagine that it's a difficult decision for everyone to make. Do I become a donor or not, or do I leave this decision to someone else? But there is also a group of people from whom we can assume that they cannot make this choice independently: the people who are incompetent. Many parties asked questions about this, but the answers have not yet convinced me that there can be no problems here. The applicant points out the importance of information. That is an important point, but can it comment on it further? How, for example, does she see this communication: when and by what method? There is a good chance that there will be a lot of people in that group of unqualified people who cannot reach a decision within the twelve-week period. Then they will be registered as donors without a conscious choice. If at any time it appears that this has happened, the registration can of course be changed again. At what moments? How exactly is the legal representative informed about the registration? It is also possible that this registration does not come out until the actual donation has to take place. How is that dealt with at the time? Should the next of kin or the legal representative prove that the person in question is incompetent? How does the initiator see that? You can leave the choice to donate organs in the ADS to your next of kin or to a specific person. The system prevents anyone from having any choice registered. However, it leaves open the possibility for relatives of people registered as donors to make it plausible that their family members did not really want to be donors. How do the next of kin convince the doctors when organ donation comes up? How do the next of kin make this plausible? Having this conversation between next of kin and doctors is already incredibly difficult. Is it wise, then, to make this conversation even more difficult with discussions about will or willfulness and whether someone with "yes, I am a donor" is registered by a positive choice or by not responding? This conversation must take place very carefully. In that conversation, the individual situation must be at the heart of the matter. Ideally, there is no room for ambiguity. You cannot standardise one of the most emotional discussions, but randomness is not desirable either. How does the initiator react to this? The applicant also states: "There are, however, exceptional situations in which the doctor may deviate from consent registration due to serious emotional concerns on the part of the next of kin. If a next of kin would be in severe psychological distress when the donation would continue, the doctor could refrain from organ donation. It is up to the doctor to make this assessment." However, this assessment is not easy to make. I assume the applicant agrees with me. Does the ADR system make this simpler or more complicated? How are we going to support the doctor in such a situation as much as possible? The following theorem is given to Jasper Endeman from the Reformatorisch Dagblad of 30 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Certainly, Mr President, I am about to come to a conclusion. The argument is that there is no greater violation of freedom than with this bill and that the state will decide about our body in active donor registration. What does the proposer think of this thesis? Finally, does the applicant also wish to express her opinion on the following? Govert den Hartogh, professor of ethics at the University of Amsterdam, asked himself in an article in Trouw dated 28 November. Whether it is not strange that Christian parties have difficulty with the "yes, unless" system: "Love your neighbor as yourself, that is a commandment, not a hobby? Why shouldn't the government say that organ donation is a final act of solidarity that can mean that seven deadly people are offered a view of a normal life?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. In 2014, 1,044 people were on the waiting list for a donor organ. Imagine being on that waiting list as a patient and always holding your phone at your fingertips, because imagine you just missed that call. You have to keep in mind that you can be summoned, but you are also in increasing uncertainty, because how long can your body last without that donor organ? I'm very impressed when I hear stories from people who are in this situation. In recent weeks, I think we've all come across the social media video with the reaction of a mother, who for the first time hears the heart that saved the life of a girl after the death of her son. Tears of sorrow, but also tears of emotion and joy for that girl. In any case, I was very moved by it, because I think it is a beautiful and solidarityary idea that by donating organs, even after death, someone can mean something to someone else. That really is one of the greatest merits of medical science. I would like to thank all those who are on a waiting list for a solution to come quickly and for not long waiting for a redeeming call. However, the opposite is true: there are sufficient donors and people indicate that they are making their organs available. Let me say first of all that, even as far as GroenLinks is concerned, this must be the choice of people themselves. Everyone has the right to make their own choice between donating organs or not. However, it is also an annoyance from my group that a very large proportion of people do not allow their choice to be recorded. That option is more than just a yes or a no. There are four options, two of which indicate that someone else decides. I therefore find it difficult to accept that non-registration is always explained in such a way that the person leaves it to the next of kin. After all, that too can be registered. Therefore, non-registration often means that it is left in the middle. GroenLinks believes that people should be more aware of the consequences of not registering their choice. When a person has not registered, it is often the case that the interview has to be entered into in the hospital and that the next of kin are being made for a difficult choice, not because that person has made a commitment to leave the choice to his next of kin, but because he has left the choice in the middle and has not made a decision. For a next of kin, that's a tough decision, especially if it's not explicitly asked of you, especially when you just lost your neighbor. Do not pass on the choice if you want to donate your organs, so it may not happen, for example because the next of kin did not dare to make that choice. I have a problem with the fact that organs that, if the person had passed on the choice, would not have been transplanted. After all, every person on the waiting list who can be helped is another one. Every person on the waiting list who dies is also one. For this reason alone, GroenLinks believes that everyone has a moral duty to let them know what they want. GroenLinks also believes that the government can insist on making a choice. I'm deliberately saying "one" choice. Clear what you want, but leave the choice in the middle. I also deliberately say "enforce," because no one should be forced to make a particular choice and you should be able to abandon it later. We now have an opt-in system, where you must actively let us know your choice; otherwise nothing will be registered. Mrs Dijkstra's proposal is to convert this into an opt-out system, where your choice for you is registered if you did not come up with it after pressing for it. A number of other countries, such as Belgium and France, already have a system based on the assumption that someone is a donor and that people must actively declare that they do not want to be a donor. I would like to hear from Mrs Dijkstra how self-determination has been discussed in those countries and where Mrs Dijkstra's proposal differs from those systems. Is it true that the system proposed by Mrs Dijkstra is a little more waiting to capture someone's choice? For the GroenLinks group, it is important that people have the opportunity to make their own choices and to make a different choice. We think there's room in the bill before us. After the first write, that possibility is there and after the second write. In addition, there is always the possibility to change your mind and change your choice. There are therefore a number of safeguards that ensure that people can really make their choice known. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this proposal is not a force for a particular choice, but a force to make a choice. People are written by letter and called upon to make their choice known. That is why I believe that there should be sufficient guarantees for people who are low or illiterate. They must also be well achieved and must not be at the disadvantage of giving one's own choice. How is Mrs Dijkstra going to ensure that? What additional measures, for example, can be taken by the Ministry? I also ask the Minister: what thoughts does she have on this? I really hope that an active donor registration system will contribute to resolving the shortage of donor organs. I assume that even after the adoption of the legislative proposal, what is happening will be closely monitored and that measures will continue to be sought to reduce the problem. My group believes it is important that the impact of the measures is also taken into account. An evaluation clause is still missing in the legislative proposal. What is Mrs Dijkstra's view of monitoring the functioning of the bill? Does she agree with GroenLinks that, in addition to the registration system, action should always be taken to reduce donor problems? It is clear that GroenLinks is in favour of the system as it stands today. However, it has also been clear over the past period that there was no political will to introduce this system. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to implement the bill and when it could come into force, if it comes through both chambers. I conclude by expressing my appreciation for the commitment of Mrs Dijkstra and her staff to submit and defend this bill. I know from my own experience how much work it is to defend a proposal from this position. The advice to create an active donor registration system has been in place since 2008. The fact that it was not there was not because there was no support for it in society, but because the political will was not there. The problem has not changed much in recent years and the measures taken have not yet helped sufficiently. That is why GroenLinks sincerely hopes that Mrs Dijkstra will get a majority behind her proposal. The support of GroenLinks has them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. At the moment, on the day we are having this debate, 984 seriously ill people are waiting for a donor body. One example is 22-year-old Shirley. She needs a new heart. She's at home because studying costs her too much energy. In the living room is the packed bag ready, in case the redeeming phone call arrives that a donor heart is available. Another example is the 17-year-old Glenn, who has cystic fibrosis and is waiting for a new liver. Because of his poor condition he can do much less than his twin brother and yet he remains positive: I am not looking at what I can not do, but at what I can do. He has been on the waiting list since June 2013. Or stop and think about Wendy's story. When she's 32 weeks pregnant, she gets chest pain. Turns out it's a weak spot in her left carotid artery. Fortunately, her twins have been born healthy, but Wendy now has serious heart problems. She's hoping to get a donor heart soon. Three stories about young people. For example, there are 981 other stories of people who are seriously ill, young and old. They hope that an organ will be available to them in time. However, the hard reality is that 150 people die every year, because an organ is not available in time: people with family, friends, a nice job, grand plans and beautiful dreams of the future. So people like you and me, or one of the 148 other MPs. With all of us, an organ could fall out at some point. In fact, the chance of ever needing a donor organ is greater than the chance of ever becoming a donor after your death. Precisely because the chance to become an organ donor is very small, we need many potential donors. At the moment, only 40% of Dutch people have recorded whether they want to donate their organs after their death. This means that almost 9 million Dutch people have not made a choice or have not yet passed on their choice. This is a big group we need to address. The proposal before us today is from my colleague from D66. It is therefore no surprise that I fully support it, but that does not mean that I do not see any objections. Does it force people to choose? Yes. Does that bother me? Yes. Would I have preferred to have more people on their own initiative, without compelling encouragement, record whether they want to be donors? Sure. But is that also the reality? No. The reality is that 9 million people somehow do not get to pass on that choice. And that strengthens me in the belief that a new registration system is needed. For me, this is an important concept of the liberal principle: self-determination; the right of each individual to have one's own body. That is only the case if every Dutchman actually has a record of what should happen to his body after his death. Not registering means that you don't decide for yourself. How does the Minister see this? Of course, my group also understands that making a choice is difficult, because it asks you to think about your personal finiteness. But you also realize the luxury position: you can make a choice, while people on the waiting list have little choice but to hope and wait. Life is not just small talk and carelessness. Big and sometimes difficult questions are regularly reviewed. We see people actively thinking about how they want to shape their lives, and certain things after their lives. And that's good. It's part of active citizenship. That is the possibility we ourselves have of shaping our lives within this society. The question of whether you want to be buried or cremated after your death is a difficult one for some, but also a very topical one. More and more people choose to take matters into their own hands and arrange their own funeral, so that there is chosen music and they are buried in a box that they like. Although we here in the Chamber have different views about life after death, we share the view that this earthly body no longer has any role in it. Then how beautiful is the thought that it can still have a function?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	As a liberal, Mr Pechtold makes a very warm plea for self-determination. With that story, he embraces Mrs Dijkstra's bill and then touches on the theme that people themselves want to deal with what happens to them after their death: buried, cremated, pick out the music themselves. What would Mr Pechtold think if we agreed in the Netherlands that if you did not record whether you wanted to be buried or cremated, the government would decide what would happen to you, for example that your body would be made available to science in the context of the public interest? How would Mr Pechtold look at this in the context of self-determination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	That would be in the unique case that there are no next of kin who have to make that choice for you. In that extreme case, if there are no next of kin, the government already does. Then the government must organize the funeral or the cremation. These are often sad meetings in which no one is present except a municipal official. I would like to respond to Mr Rutte, because I seek the similarities in our thinking, not the differences. There have been many more opportunities in recent generations. It used to be obvious from your background or belief what happened to your body. Then you were buried or cremated, in some beliefs even within a day, because it had to be. But think about what enrichment of our civilization we are now in. We can talk about palliative care or euthanasia these days. So we can make decisions not only about our way of dying, but also about what happens afterwards. What I mean by self-determination is that someone else is talking about if you don't register yourself. I heard the story of a family on the radio this morning. Fortunately there was a registration, but one daughter didn't want it and the other wanted it. That's what we're trying to prevent. As an individual, I want to prevent that. Now there's actually no self-determination if you don't take care of anything, because then your next of kin will take care of it for you. And who are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr Pechtold is making a very long speech, perhaps to distract us from the key question I have just asked. He himself says something very special in his answer. If I didn't myself record what should happen to me after my death, bury, cremate or anything else, would he feel normal if the government decided for me what would happen to me? No, Mr Pechtold finds that very strange, because that is why we have next of kin. In the context of the right to self-determination of your own body, is it not quite normal for you to make your own decision and record it or leave it to your next of kin if you haven't done so, rather than for the government to make that choice on your behalf and fill it out on a form?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Rutte is looking for sharpness. It's not the government. We are the government that makes rules and laws and facilitates this system. I will come back to that later. In practice, no government is going to be involved anymore. It's the patient with his will. It's the doctor. It's the next of kin. The fear that the State is at your bed, I think, with all due respect to Mr Rutte, I do not do justice to this bill. I find the comparison with a government that determines whether you're cremated or buried, to be honest, misses the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have another question for Mr Pechtold. I am used to D66 being very strict about restricting fundamental rights. In the case of privacy, D66 is extremely alert to the fact that there is a constitutional right at stake, even if there are important security interests at stake. D66 then says: be careful that this is not restricted beyond what is strictly necessary. Does Mr Pechtold agree with me that this bill infringes a fundamental right, namely the right to the inviolability of the body, as enshrined in Article 11 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, I do not agree with Mr Van der Staaij. I know that the SGP and D66 differ about the beginning of life, where life begins, and about the end of life, where life ends. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this system stems from a search for better systems for decades. However, if you look at the seriousness of the situation and the consequences of the waiting attitude of society and government, I find it unacceptable to remain waiting. When I looked at those numbers again this morning, I had the next idea. Suppose you could avoid 150 road deaths by asking everyone to put a piece of paper in his glove compartment. We would all do that right away, because there are all kinds of paperwork over there. 150 is a firm number. Actually, with this bill, we're asking for nothing more than the same thing. Register. Make your choice. I will come back later on to the careful way in which that happens. But first of all, I would like to respond more directly to Mr Van der Staaij's question. No, I don't think this violates the body, because I think the body is at a different stage by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	I do not understand Mr Pechtold's reasoning when I look at the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. It states that Article 11 of the Constitution is not at issue if there is explicit consent, but that there is an infringement of the right of inviolability of the human body, if you use this system as an assumed consent. It's okay to do that formally, as long as you get it by law. That's what's happening now. But you're crossing a line. Why is D66 not more critical of the fact that, unlike the current system, there should be a special legal regime which does infringe a fundamental right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	Perhaps the Constitution is slightly different from the ten commandments. The ten commandments have an effect that has been untouchable for two thousand years, while a Constitution also evaluates the way society looks at mutual solidarity and the finiteness of life in this case. So I think a Constitution is an important guideline. Mr Van der Staaij is actually already helping me with the answer to his question, because the Council of State also says: then you need separate legislation. What is more beautiful than an extensive public debate on this legislation in order to tighten up this part of fundamental rights? As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is not a question of being affected, but of making it more precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	Let us point out that D66 and the Christian Union both see the problem of the long waiting lists. However, I find it extremely remarkable that a party such as D66, which is so committed to the right of self-determination, should come forward with this proposal. Because this is affecting the right of self-determination in the sense that the government is going to make a decision for you about what happens to your body after you die. I would like to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	I am pleased that Mr Dik-Faber is concerned about whether I still feel and experience my principles. It's always nice when colleagues who look differently at your political attitude, want to keep you on that. But I can live with this. I can live with this forever. I can even defend this. Moreover, I can bring it here today enthusiastically with Mrs Dijkstra, because I have the feeling that the seriousness of the situation is going to get me straight to the history of this bill, which forces me as an individual and politician to move forward in my thinking. As far as I am concerned, an important step in our civilisation is this active system of registration in which self-determination is at the forefront and there is no looking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	Honestly, I don't understand anything about it. I come back to Mr Pechtold's last words. He said self-determination in this active donor registration system is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	When you don't register, you build in the situation that the government is ticking off for you at "yes, I'm a donor," isn't self-determination at all important?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	Then we will return to the same discussion. Yes, you do, because a number of times you consciously leave it behind, for any argument. Maybe it's complacency. I'd rather someone actively do something. Maybe people also say: yes, I like it; I like it, but I don't need to register it actively now. We will have to guess the reasons. That is what I am telling the opponents, unfortunately perhaps Mrs Dik-Faber. In the past, her party has supported moves by the SP that were maneuvering this way. I thought that was very important because this came from a Christian angle. There is no self-determination now either, because if you do nothing now, the doctor will ask the next of kin at the most emotional, painful moment. Then who are the next of kin? There may be an argument between parents and grandparents and children; siblings may think differently about it. That is why the number of survivors who react positively at that time is so low, because they choose the safe route. I think it is an enrichment of active citizenship if we answer this question in our lives and if we also have the opportunity to change that answer at any time, up to the last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr Pechtold rightly states that the current system does not include the right to self-determination because survivors decide, however difficult it may be. However, doesn't it deserve by far the preference that next of kin decide for their loved ones rather than for the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	In the system proposed by Mrs Dijkstra, you can decide for yourself who your next of kin are by choice 4. In the current system, and I am now putting it very sharply, the next of kin are an accidental outcome of a bloodline or an ever-emerging registration by marriage or partnership. In the meantime, anything could have changed, including feelings. We all know that there are great differences in the best families, especially when it comes to these kinds of things. That is why I ask myself and everyone not to make that choice with the "coincidence" relatives. That could be a sister who happens to be around and not the brother who lives in Australia. How are you gonna do that? That's daily practice now. Doctors are now taking courses to guide next of kin. These courses, of course, aim to answer that question with yes, but it is much more important that an individual does that in life than it does at that most emotional moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr Pechtold says that people do not react because of laxity or for other reasons. D66 wants to be the educational party, but despite this there are over one million functional illiterates in the Netherlands. Those people can't read the government's letters, and they don't understand them either. The D66 Group proposes to send two letters and if no reply is received, the bodies of the government. In this way, people with disabilities are deprived of the right to self-determination and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	I am trying to conduct this debate with respect, but this is so brief that accidents happen when Mr Öztürk thinks that Mrs Dijkstra's proposal should be summarised in this way. Nevertheless, I will take this seriously. Mr Öztürk says I belong to the educational party. Mr Öztürk now says that he is of the Movement DENK. Thinking means standing still, being conscious and thinking. Mrs Dijkstra has done so and that is why a very careful system of letters but also of... Mr. Chairman. I find it rather uncomfortable that Mr Öztürk is present when I reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	We are talking about a serious issue, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	You teach and I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	No, no, Mr Öztürk, Mr Pechtold spoke. Mr. Pechtold, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	What an attitude! But okay. I am concerned that, of course, in the legislative proposal, there must be room for this to be done in a way that is easily accessible, not difficult letters such as those of the Tax Administration. I will ask the applicant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do the same later. It must be accompanied by commercials so that it also becomes visually clear. Efforts must be made to involve the general practitioners, as suggested by the SP. That's why people know very easily what this means. Yes, society requires everyone, including people with disabilities, to make choices. There must be help with this choice. As far as I am concerned, if you have any constructive ideas about this, they are very welcome. We must do everything we can to reach everyone in such a way that everyone can make that choice aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	We too think it is an important point. We stand up for those 1 million or 1.5 million people. That's why I'm asking a serious question. I therefore expect a short and serious answer, rather than the College that we always get from Mr Pechtold. Then I come to my second question. Does Mr Pechtold think that enough measures have been taken over the last 20 years, for example in the field of information, to solve this problem? Let me give you an example. 28% of the municipalities send a letter about organ donation if you can pick up a passport; 72% do not. 5% of the municipalities send a letter to the welcome package on organ donation; 95% do not. So the Cabinets for this have not achieved what they should have achieved. However, that cannot be a reason to come up with a proposal on two letters, taking away your organs if you do not answer those two letters. Do you think that sufficient measures have been taken to implement these measures now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you for the concise question. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	So Mr Pechtold says that the government has not taken enough action. I propose that before voting on this bill in the Chamber, these measures should be implemented. Then we can deal with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think that was a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	I do not agree with that remark, because that means postponement. I come to the history of the law. What is the history of the proposal we are discussing today? In 1966 my party was not only founded, but also the first kidney transplant took place in the Netherlands. A mother gave a kidney to her son. That was a high-risk operation in the 1960s. The patient had to be completely isolated in order to shut down his entire immune system. In the meantime, the knowledge and skills in this field have increased considerably. The Netherlands is even the world leader in kidney transplants with life. That's a hell of an achievement. Unfortunately, we're dangling at the bottom of post-mortem transplants. After this first kidney transplant there was a discussion about a legal arrangement. So that was 50 years ago. Dividement over the type of decision-making system led to a long delay in legislation. It was not until 1996, 30 years after that first transplant, that the law on organ donation came into being. An important objective of the Organ Donation Act, commonly referred to as "WOD," was to increase the number of donations by centrally registering will decisions in a donor registry. Following the introduction of the law, politics and society have taken many initiatives to increase the number of organ donors, allowing for more organ transplants. Everyone knows the annual donor weeks. There's a lot of budget for recruiting commercials. Unfortunately, there are hardly any new donors year after year. The most striking example was the Grand Donorshow in 2007. The planned live broadcast in advance at home and abroad led to great indignation. Minister Plasterk, who was then talking about the media, stated in an answer to Parliament's questions that the programme was objectionable. Prime Minister Balkenende was afraid that the Netherlands would suffer image damage. During the show, the incurable sick Lisa would give a kidney to a kidney patient. Three candidates had a chance. Viewers were able to express their preference via text message. At the end of the show, Lisa turned out to be a perfectly healthy actress. The three kidney patients were also in the conspiracy. Presentator Patrick Lodiers at the end of the broadcast called on everyone to fill out a donor form. There were 1.2 million people watching. 12,000 filled out a form. Beautiful, but only 1 in 100. A drop on the glowing plate, especially when you consider that about 10,000 registrations are needed to obtain one suitable donor. Everything's been tried. As much as I'd like to see it different, we're not getting there with the current system. The waiting lists will remain and patients will continue to die unnecessarily. With the Big Donorshow as a reason and the persistent shortage of donor organs, the Master Plan Organ Donation, with five recommendations, was launched in 2008 to increase the number of organ transplants. Four have been taken over and the fifth is still waiting for implementation: the Active Donor Registration System, the ADR system. And that is exactly the proposal before us today. In 2008, the cabinet chose not to introduce the ADR system. However, the objective has been taken over to allow 800 post-mortem transplants to take place in 2013; it became 706. My question to the Minister is why this objective has not been achieved. Can she give us an overview of the additional donors we have received as a result of extending the age criteria in the period from 2011 onwards? Does the Minister believe that within the current system, the number of donors and transplants can actually increase and, if so, how? In the ADR system, every Dutchman receives a donor form shortly after his or her 18th birthday. With this form you are asked to pass on whether or not you want to become an organ donor after you die. This form will also be sent to all adult Dutch people whose choice is not yet known in the system. Capturing your choice can be done by filling in the form and sending it back or by registering online via donorregister.nl. The choices are: "yes," "no," "my next of kin decide" or "a specific third person decides." The same choices as those within the current system, but an important difference is that in the case of active donor registration someone will receive a letter next to the donor form explaining that he or she will be registered as an organ donor in the absence of active registration. Anyone who fails to respond to the first request shall be sent another donor form. This form is also provided with information on the consequences of non-reactions. Anyone who has not responded six weeks after this reminder receives a written confirmation that he or she has been registered in the donor register as an organ donor. It is stressed that this registration can be changed at any time. Opponents might now think: oh, so there is a "who doesn't consent," is that so easy? No, absolutely not, care above all else. I would like to explain why my group considers this system fair. As long as people die who could have been saved with a donor organ, as a country, as a politically expensive duty to try everything to increase the number of organ transplants. Research shows that the introduction of active donor registration could increase the number of transplants by about 15%. That's 100 extra transplants a year. And now, of course, I hear opponents thinking: that has never been proven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u35	It almost seems as if Mr Pechtold is psychic. He started his speech by saying that 150 people die every year while they are on the waiting list. The suggestion is awakened by D66, also in commercials, that she will ensure that those people are no longer on the waiting list. Now a lot of research has been done into differences in systems. I'm just gonna get the 2010 Master Plan Organ Donation. I quote from the study in question, page 128: "It appears that the differences between the systems that occur in the field of registration behaviour are equalised by the differences in next of kin consents and vice versa. These results show that there are no differences between the systems." Then how does Mr Pechtold come to his figures and his harsh statement that he is going to ensure that no more 150 people die on the waiting list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u36	I get that from the averages and from the reports, because we too have done our homework. In the period 2006-2007, the number was 635. The objective was to allow 800 post-mortem transplants to take place in 2013. So more than 150 people could be helped. 10% was attributed to the introduction of the ADR and 10% to other measures. So we too are looking at the figures. I just said it's not math you can explain to the future. However, one thing is certain: with the new system it is the more than reasonable expectation that the number of possibilities will increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u37	That's a little more nuanced. "The more than reasonable expectation" is in any case less pretentious than saying that thanks to this bill 150 people no longer die. That was a very harsh statement, which I do not think can be substantiated. Then we'll grab some...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u38	I object to that, Mr President. I'm formulating very carefully here. You did not hear me say: 150 people are instantly saved. I would almost dare say that everyone we manage to save through this system has been taken: everyone, 1 or 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u39	Okay. In my view, the current D66 membership campaign has a different tone, but we may be able to disagree on that. Then I'll take another, more recent investigation, done by Panteia in 2014. On page 36, the conclusions are as follows: "In view of the fact that there is a possibility to object to donation in case of a yes registration within the ADR system, the shares of donors in the consent system, the ADR system with well-informed relatives and the compulsory choice system reach 73%, 72% and 70% respectively. These are not significant differences." We're gonna tear the whole system apart without good evidence. In my own speech, I will still show why it can lead to even fewer donors. Isn't that very reckless, apart from everything we do in the area of infringement of the right to self-determination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u40	I am filling in today because D66's public health spokesperson, Mrs Dijkstra, wrote this bill. However, Mr Rutte is the public health spokesperson of the VVD, of a liberal party. I see him now in the margins, in the footnotes of reports almost immaculately looking for arguments why we should not do this. I'll just confront him with an open question. If he accepts that there are so many people on the list every year who die unnecessarily, because we as a society, we as a government, we as politicians are unable to bring our society to that level that one is aware of life after death, I find it an expensive duty of Mr Rutte and myself to come up with solutions. I'm hearing objections. I don't hear any solutions. I hope, at least, that this is a free matter in the VVD Group and that the 39 others themselves decide whether they know better than Mrs Dijkstra, me or anyone how to deal with this great social problem. Anyone who goes abroad now to get a kidney because he can afford it, I find perverse. Anyone who goes from the free west to China to get organs there, I find perverse. Everything must be done about it in this system, in this civilization, in this guide country... for this has not yet been shown anywhere, I agree with Mr Rutte, but that has happened before. That requires politicians with a view to the future and not with a sense of 'we're not doing it that way'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr Pechtold speaks directly to me, Mr President. I would like to take this opportunity to respond. It is, of course, very pretentious to pretend that only D66 is committed to emptying the waiting lists and as if only D66 is proposing the real solutions with this bill. I show reports that I take very seriously because I am very concerned about what we are doing here, as there is a chance that there will be even fewer organ donors. Then I do not think Mr Pechtold's words fit in with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u42	I'm glad I hit Mr. Rutte. When you're hit, you're gonna think about your own arguments. I always do that myself. It is not D66, but it is Mrs Dijkstra who has tabled here a law that is contained in an opinion of 2008. The cabinet has taken four of the opinions from them and has failed to do so. In the meantime, almost ten years later, can a political movement pick up the glove from its ideals and submit a difficult, complicated and vulnerable bill? If Mr Rutte has another proposal, I would like to hear it. I would prefer that he and his group share in this proposal's thinking about further improvement. I told you opponents will say it's never been proven. And that's right, because active donor registration is unique and hasn't been introduced anywhere in the world. It is clear, however, that there are more post-mortem organ donors in countries with no objection, where consent is assumed, than in countries with a consent system. A response from the minister to the article in BMC Medicine, in which 48 countries are compared over a period of twelve years. The article shows that there are more donations in countries with no objection system. The majority of European countries do not have such an objection system, for example our neighbour Belgium. That's where you're supposed to be a donor. If that is not what I would like to tell Mr Rutte, then you will have to go to the town hall to register it yourself. By the way, less than 2% of Belgians have done so. The Active Donor Registration System that is in place today is in fact a mixed system. It offers everyone the opportunity to make their choice. People are repeatedly asked to actively capture the choice, such as in an authorisation system. If the ability to say no is not used, consent is assumed, as in a no objection system. That makes it a careful system. I'd almost say it's the golden middle way. Our choice for active donor registration is also a fundamental choice, a choice for one of the most important values that drives me: self-determination, the right to have one's own body until after death. ADR can increase self-determination. Now 60% of the Dutch have no choice. Despite all the efforts, this percentage has not fallen for years. The right to self-determination is therefore not exercised by most people. Opponents of ADR often invoke the argument: I do not want the State to decide on my organs. And I totally agree with them. The choice is not up to the State. In the ADR system, I see the government, as it is now, as a sort of accountant that facilitates the system. But the choice lies with you in the end. And it is not the government that is central, but the individual, the doctor and the next of kin, with in the background a government that makes laws and rules. Few realize that non-registration within the current system means that relatives have to make the final decision at a difficult and emotional moment. So not registering doesn't mean you can't become a donor. We now lay down the responsibility of next of kin, but not everyone talks to their neighbors about organ donation. Will those next of kin make the choice you'd like most? That's the question. 64% of the next of kin say no to donation, and I understand that very well. I might decide the same thing at such an emotional moment, right after the death of a loved one. And yet research shows that two thirds of the Dutch are willing to give up their organs after death. Moreover, a majority of the Dutch are also in favour of this ADR system, according to research carried out by the CBS and Maurice de Hond. The ADR system can relieve survivors and doctors. If everyone has made a choice and is registered, there is clarity for doctors and next of kin. Directly involved doctors are also in favour or, as internist Frank Bosch put it nicely: "I think the conversation with next of kin will be easier. Surely it is more enjoyable to start the conversation with "it is registered that the organs of your recently deceased husband may be used for transplantation" than with "there is nothing registered and you have to make a decision now"?" The fact that doctors can provide clarity can benefit the care of the relatives and assist in the mourning process. A final, important argument is that we are creating a social safety net with organ donors through active donor registration. Anyone can claim this at the moment that is necessary, exactly as most Dutch want. They want to be eligible for a donor body if necessary. I would also like to repeat once again: the chance that you will ever need an organ yourself is greater than the chance of ever becoming an organ donor after death. My starting point is that this social safety net should and should remain available to every Dutchman. However, maintaining that social provision calls for one personal decision by every Dutchman, and that does not seem to me to be too much of a question. Minister Schippers put it nicely in a video for the past Donor Week: "You may get very sick or your child will get very sick. In such a situation, would you like to receive a donor organ to save yourself or your child's life? These are very difficult questions, but very important questions. I would like to ask you this important question. If you would like to receive such an organ in such a situation, the answer to the question of whether you want to become an organ donor can also not be non-binding. So become a donor and save lives." In view of this pressing appeal, I would ask the Minister whether she agrees with my group that defining a choice that is entitled to own responsibility is a minimum effort that you may ask of people; not without obligation. My group also wants to keep an eye on possible vulnerabilities in the system. Therefore, the proposal provides for the possibility for survivors to report to the doctor that their next of kin did not want to be a donor. Additional measures have also been taken for those who are willing to do so, as I say to Mr Öztürk, on the advice of the Council of State. Does the applicant wish to go into this further? I also think it is very important that an explicit declaration of will always prevail over the registration in the system. The possibility to carry your own note, therefore, remains. Of course, it is of the utmost importance that everyone understands what this change means when it comes to changing the system. We must put a lot of time and effort into that. Can the applicant indicate how it intends to make this new system known? In what way does she want to make sure that the subject of conversation is at every kitchen table? I am sure she will allow me to make some suggestions in advance. First of all, an information campaign. In addition, the donor form and the corresponding information should be drawn up in clear and simple terms. Particular attention should be paid to people with language disadvantages. Movies should be made available for this. Local general practitioners can play a role in this. I have already referred to the SP proposal in this connection. It is also important that people are repeatedly reminded of the possibility to view or modify registration so that someone's most current wish is available. Make sure that there are forms available from the general practitioner, the pharmacy, the municipality and on the internet. I would like to hear what the applicant thinks about this and I would ask the Minister the same question. The list is not exhaustive. I invite everyone who has ideas about this to share them today, so that we can shape the implementation with each other. I'm also looking at the Minister. Can it explain how it intends to ensure that information is as clear as possible and reaches as many people as possible? What experience has been gained during the donor weeks? Does the Minister also want to look at the campaign in Wales, where a system similar to the ADR system was switched in 2015? I appeal to all colleagues today. I'll be honest with you. In my group, too, there were not twelve full-time votes in favour. However, the need was endorsed by everyone. I therefore challenge every opponent of the ADR system to come up with a better alternative. If you don't, I'm asking you to think within this system. I also ask the applicant to be open to such ideas. This isn't about party politics. This is a social problem that we can only tackle if we all put our shoulder to it and take responsibility. Here in the Chamber we talk a lot about abstract figures and percentages, but let me explain it differently. The groups of PvdA and VVD together count 76 people, more than half of all these chairs. Then realize that last year almost as many people died because there wasn't a new kidney available in time. Or think about the colleagues from the SP and the CDA. That's 28 people. So many people died last year waiting for a liver. It is an intrusive comparison, but one which, in my view, does justice to the problem for which ADR can be part of the solution. With many proposals here in the Chamber, it is known in advance whether or not the proposal will succeed. When I look into the room like that, I know it's not a run-of-the-mill race. I would therefore like to wish the initiator every success and take this opportunity to congratulate her on making this proposal. It has had to make difficult considerations about this. It's tight, and that's what makes it exciting. I hope that the choice to vote for or against this bill within all groups will be a free choice, as will the decision to donate or not to donate a body is and remains a free choice. The only thing my party wants is an end to the free will for the sake of self-determination, to maintain the social safety net, to relieve the burden of next of kin and for Glenn, Wendy, Shirley and everyone else on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u43	I have another practical question for Mr Pechtold. We agree that the Active Donor Registration System should have a chance, after 18 years of practice with the current law. If we take into account the current situation, I will be given the role that the municipality could play if people come there for a document, for example a driving licence or an identification document. Mr Pechtold comes from the city and has affinity with it. Does he have any ideas or suggestions on how we could improve that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u44	Fortunately, not only the town hall is the location where the information is given, this also happens with the general practitioner and the pharmacy. The city councils have no influence on that. The applicant and I have already made the link with the issuing of official rich documents, such as the passport. I think it is interesting that the Minister for the Interior will take a good look at whether municipalities should not be obliged to provide such forms when issuing such documents. Let's put that question together to the cabinet. I believe that Mr Öztürk has just come up with the figures that show that there are still a lot of municipalities here for any reason. I agree with Mr Van Gerven that information on this system is not something that should lead to municipal policy as a shopping Sunday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u45	In particular, I ask this because an important discussion point in the ADR system is whether people decide for themselves whether they have sufficient knowledge about it. The system has been explained, but I see it as an addition to the ADR system, because we are adding an extra official moment in which, often young people, the choice is presented. I understand that Mr Pechtold agrees with that, and I await with interest the reaction of the Cabinet, both the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister of the Interior, because I think it is a broad cabinet issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u46	I fully agree with Mr Van Gerven and others who are asking very critical questions here. This is not the solution 50 years after the first successful transplant, after which we all say: never think about it again, bow around it, that's how we're going to do it. Anyone who feels the same discomfort and perhaps more than inconvenience given the numbers, I challenge to think along within this system. Yeah, it comes first, but if you compare it to other countries, it's the best system we can have. But that can be extended, needs to be evaluated and so on. Wisdom is not just in this proposal. He's with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u47	The SGP feels very appealed to think within the system. We do so in all kinds of other discussions, but we are talking about a change in the law that really wants a change in the system. That's why I'm concentrating on my question right now. I noticed that within D66 itself there was some very fundamental criticism of this bill. I refer you to Menno van der Land's website, no stranger to Mr Pechtold, who says that it goes far too far for the State to oblige people to take steps to prevent the State from undermining their self-determination. What is his reaction to this criticism from one's own ranks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u48	I just think it's fantastic that I'm allowed to be a member of a party with more members than the previous year, over 25,000, in which they don't all think what Alexander Pechtold is saying here. In fact, we have had whole discussions in the group. I have just indicated that in our group Mrs Dijkstra is the initiator, that I may now be the spokesman, but that we have said to everyone: this is one of those moments when you can make your own assessment. We record a lot in election programmes. Then the majority will apply. We take many decisions in which the majority applies, but these are individual matters. As I see it now, that will lead us all to vote in favour, but as chairman of the group I would have thought otherwise. So there's a different opinion within my party. I'm not talking about 12 people. I'm talking about more than 25,000. There are also opponents among the voters of D66 opponents. Voilà. I also hope that there will be a single supporter among the SGPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u49	We in our group have at least the same thinking on this point, but if we come to different views at some point, there will certainly be room for different views. I note, however, that it is quite common in us, because we have the same strong starting point that it goes too far for something more in the moral, personal sphere, so in the obligation to draw from the government, to put it as strongly as a matter of the State. In view of the ideology of D66 of self-determination and liberalism, as well as Mr Pechtold's vision, this approach must be on the verge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u50	That makes it so beautiful that we can discuss these matters transparently here. I remember when we went to high school and there was polio. The discussion was then whether or not you were inoculated and how it was handled in Christian circles. It was also about the integrity of the body. Can the government interfere? We have had many discussions over the last 50 years, apart from this discussion. But if you make it more party-political, I say to you: I believe that there is also room in your constituency for a ban on the adoption of a donor body. Then I think that, in your constituency too, I should be able to speak with you at one of your congresses very shortly: do we therefore feel that we ourselves have an obligation to express our opinion on this matter in the context of self-determination?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u51	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u52	Consider it, encourage it to think about it, encourage it to register a choice, I wholeheartedly support it. But the question is whether you go one step further by saying: the State decides that if you do not choose, you will be chosen for you. In fact, consent is taken as a basis. I think that is a step too far, in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u53	When you take the word "state," you're scared, when you say "we as society," you invite. In my vocabulary, these two can be put together today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u54	Before I give the floor to Mr Öztürk, I propose that two minutes be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. We are all concerned about the shortage of donor organs and about the people who need such an organ to survive. Probably everyone agrees that we need as many organ donors as possible. However, the discussion is about how we should do it. The debate is also about how we can move those millions of people who have not yet registered to register. We think the D66 plan goes too far, because this plan is a compelling plan. People who don't respond to two letters can't automatically make donors. We consider that unfair and the Council of State is also critical of this. We do want to co-operate creatively on an active donor registration system. Not only do we want to say 'no', but we also want to think about a solution. Mr Pechtold therefore asked and he is now served there. DENK comes up with a concrete proposal that has been discussed here a few times before, but not as an amendment. We may wish to table an amendment to that effect. Everyone goes to the city, everyone has to pick up a passport and a driver's license. At the moment, municipalities are not actively trying to alert people to donor registration. Let's make sure that happens. Suppose someone goes to the municipality to get their passport, ID or driver's license and at that time gets information from the municipal official; the costs are paid by the government. When he comes back a week later to pick up the passport, he can choose whether to fill out the donor registration form or not. Then there is freedom of choice. Then you have informed all citizens in the Netherlands one-on-one, asked one-on-one, and in the end after a week of thinking they can make a conscious choice. Every ten years you have to renew your passport, you get the same question. At the age of 20, you have an opinion, but at the age of 60, that opinion may have changed. That is why we say that the Cabinets have not done enough to get the people who still have to do so to fill out a registration. As long as that's not done, you can't have a compelling law deal with two letters, no answer, so bring your body here when you're dead. That's what happens to people. I also asked what we should do with more than a million people who do not understand the government's letters, cannot read or are functionally illiterate. Do we say "bad luck, should you have had good education"? No, a lot of people don't understand the government's letters, don't understand the official language. Then they do not answer that and are we going to impose our choices on those people? No, honest and understandable information is crucial. This can be given when applying for a passport and again when collecting it in understandable language with images and videos at citizens' level. We are there for the citizen, not the other way around. We are looking forward to the Minister's response. Has she done everything in her power to register those five, six, seven or eight million people who have not yet been registered? Where has it failed, what means has it not deployed? I am thinking in particular of the responsibility of the municipalities. I'm rounding up. What does DENK think of organ donation? DENK thinks this is a free choice of people, DENK thinks that you should inform people about this and DENK thinks that information should not be propaganda. Everyone is in charge of his or her organs, even after his or her death. There is a positive trend in the number of donor registrations. Hopefully, creative solutions will strengthen that trend, but you must never force it. Our point is: let's all put forward proposals to try to get all these people to voluntarily fill out the donor registration form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u56	Before I give the floor to Mr Pechtold for an interruption, I would remind Mr Öztürk that he is always talking about DENK but that we know the Kuzu/Öztürk Group in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u57	I am very pleased that Mr Öztürk is taking part, but in his contribution, which I am trying to assess on its consistency, there is a mistake in thinking. Mr Öztürk said that you now decide what happens to your organs after you die. In practice, however, this is not the case when you do not register and leave it to relatives, whoever they are, to decide. Self-determination is if you repeat through life a number of times from the age of 18, daily you can decide what happens to your own organs. What Mr Öztürk raises as a problem with this bill also applies to his own argument. That could lead to the next of kin deciding about you and not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u58	This self-determination debate has just been held between the liberal parties, VVD and D66. That's why we say you need to make people aware of that registration. The measures taken so far have not reached everyone. Until that choice has been submitted to everyone, one by one, you cannot treat such a law here. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u59	I understand that point, but I object to the fact that we spend years working on Donor Weeks and intrusive, challenging and shocking things like the Donorshow. That was the moment when everyone was involved in that discussion. However, the effect is still very disappointing. So now is the time to take the step, as in an official opinion given to the government almost ten years ago, with all due care. I challenge Mr Öztürk to go into my point that in the current system you are not dealing with your own organs. If you haven't figured it out, other people are gonna go over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u60	The difference with D66 is that DENK feels that the measures of the last twenty years have not been achieved by everyone. D66 says we've done everything we wanted or could do, but we didn't, so we're going to take a compelling measure. We say: no, we have not yet fully exploited our creativity and solution orientation. That is why we differ. I agree with Mr Pechtold that when we do not actively approach people, others make the choice for them when they die. I agree with Mr Pechtold, and that is why we are trying to come up with creative solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u61	I would like to return to my point just now, although it is too important today to discuss it for a long time. The Chamber has a group Kuzu/Öztürk. I understand, of course, what Mr Öztürk is referring to, but that is the agreement we have made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Pechtold addressed me as a representative of DENK, and I also replied in the capacity of DENK'er. I am pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss this. I'm being addressed to that. You may do so formally, but on the other hand a question has been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u63	I have been in the Chamber for six years, and in those years I have had a lot of debates on this subject. I think we've made a lot of things fit. Mr Öztürk now proposes to look at other creative solutions. I cannot think of anything other than what has been tried so far, perhaps Mrs Dijkstra or Mrs Schippers. What solutions does Mr Öztürk have in mind, which all the politicians and all the people who have been working on this in the past eight years have not been able to come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u64	5% of the municipalities state in the welcome letter that donor registration is also provided. 95% doesn't. 28% of the municipalities send a letter on organ donation in response to the collection of a passport. 72% doesn't. There's a lot you can do about all those municipalities that are failing. In the context of asylum seekers coming to the Netherlands, we are talking about standards and values; we need to provide training, information and information to guide these people in our society. This is also a matter of principle in which we are allowed to spend a great deal of money. We can do more on this issue than has been done so far. Perhaps we can force the municipalities, so that not 5% but 100% sends that letter. We can take these measures. They have not been taken, so I say: wait until the measures have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u65	So Mr Öztürk wants all the municipalities to write to all the people. I think that is exactly what Mrs Dijkstra is proposing. If Mr Öztürk wants all people to be reached, I assume he will be voting in favour of Mrs Dijkstra's initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u66	Then the GroenLinks chamber member didn't listen properly. Here's what I said. If someone goes to the city council to apply for a passport, they must receive personal information from the municipal official. I have said that as a government we must pay for the course and training of the municipal official, so that every individual in the Netherlands is confronted with this, one-on-one. We haven't done that so far. Perhaps that will cost a few millions, but that will solve a fundamental problem. We have not taken such measures. Now you come up with 'we've been thinking up ideas for 20 years', but apparently you didn't come up with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u67	Were you done yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Klever on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr. Chairman. Waiting for a donor organ while your life literally depends on it, we don't wish for anyone at all. Fortunately, more organ donors reported in 2015 than in the previous year: an increase of 4%. Yet that has not led to more transplants. The number of transplants even decreased by 4%. An increase in the number of donors does not automatically lead to more organ transplants. This is also concluded by the director of the Dutch Transplantation Foundation. There are many more factors involved, such as cause of death, cardiac death or brain death, medical complications and the low percentage of next of kin that gives consent. The headline of the AD this week, "forced donor choice saves 150 lives," is therefore misplaced in my view. What facts is this based on? Forced registration can also mean that more people register "no." Or leave the choice to the next of kin, who in turn say no. In the Netherlands, the number of registered people who say yes is two and a half times as high as the number that says no. Does the applicant assume that this relationship will remain that way? If so, what is it based on? In Belgium, where everyone has to register, the ratio of yes-no is about fifty-fifty. By the way, there are more people on the waiting list than in the Netherlands, namely 1,288 against 984 in the Netherlands. I ask the petitioner to provide a better basis for the statement that 150 lives will be saved every year with the introduction of an Active Donor Registration System. I am also curious about the Minister's view on this. My group is not convinced of this. Over the last ten years, the number of organ transplants has increased by about 23%. I think that's good. This means that much has been achieved, especially when we have had fewer donors on the supply side in that period because of a decrease in the number of road victims. On the demand side, more and more people are on the waiting list, because we are getting older and our chances of survival are increasing. Despite the failure to achieve the objective of the Master Plan Organ Donation, there is therefore progress. We have had successful pilots that have been further deployed and communication with potential donors and relatives has improved. The PVV has always argued for this and continues to argue for it. We have regular meetings on this in this Chamber. In addition, progress has been made in transplantation techniques, stem cell research and the development of art organs using 3D bioprinting. After all, science does not stand still. The PVV wants to continue along this path and stimulate research and technology, so that there is a time when we no longer need to transplant organs at all. In addition to this progress and the doubts as to whether the automatic donor registration system provides for more organ transplants, the PVV Group considers this system to be a step too far. If this system is introduced, it means that your organs can be claimed if you have never wanted or been able to make a choice. If for any reason, you haven't received or read the call, missed the repeated call and you haven't thought about it consciously or unconsciously, then this law automatically makes you a donor. The author of this law then considers your organs to be a social provision that you only have to give up out of solidarity. We consider this position to be anything but liberal. Where freedom of choice is at the heart of all medical-ethical issues, e.g. abortion or euthanasia, freedom of choice is abandoned here. Where the petitioner made a motion earlier in 2011 to give carriers of Huntington's disease the right not to know, she now wants to deprive people of the right not to choose. That's incomprehensible. Can the author explain that? The PVV Group thanks the initiator for her efforts to increase the number of donors. However, we reject an active donor registration system. We do not want to deprive anyone of the right not to make a choice. But above all, laws are not meant to force people to choose in the ethical field. I hope that the Chamber will adopt the same position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u71	It is remarkable that Mrs Klever states in her speech that this is an automatic donor system. That's just not true. It's an active donor registration system. Why is that so crucial? Because the proposal does not decide on anyone, but everyone has the opportunity to decide for themselves. So it's not automatic this or automatic that. I want to be the first to say that. Self-casting continues, in whatever system we choose. If it turns out that one system is more effective than the other to ensure more donors, is the PVV in favour of the system being proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u72	First of all, I apologize if I said "automatically." That was a mistake, because it must of course be an 'active' donor registration system. That's a mistake on my part. Mr Van Gerven asks me something I think I have already said in my speech. We are in principle not in favour of that if you cannot make a choice or if you do not want to make a choice, the government decides for you. We think that is a step too far. We find it particularly noble when people give up their organs after they die. That's really beautiful. We also want to encourage that. The government can also encourage this through information and communication, you name it. But it must ultimately be the individual's free choice to apply as an organ donor. However, this ADR system decides for people who do not want to decide that they are donors. We think that is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u73	It's not right for the state to decide. That the State is proposing a standard "yes, unless" "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," "yes," In the individual situation, however, there remains the choice for everyone to say that one is or is not an organ donor, if that is the case. Surely the PVV can't deny that? If the right of self-determination is maintained in one system, should we not, above all, ask the question of effectiveness? That is the question of how we can ensure that there are as many donors as possible to help as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u74	The PVV also finds the right not to choose an important right. That right is denied here, because if you don't want or can't make a choice, you automatically become a donor. We think that is a step too far. The right not to choose must also remain. A lot of people don't want to make that choice for any reason. We'll have to respect that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u75	The right not to choose also remains in the Active Donor Registration System. After all, you can say that you leave it to your next of kin. The options to choose one or the other, do not change with this system. However, the starting point is indeed that we rely for a long time on the norm "yes, unless," but everyone can act on it too. So I don't think you can say that the possibility of not choosing doesn't stand. That choice is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u76	The question is whether this system will generate more donors. My group is not convinced of that. Several reports show that this does not result in additional donors. Apart from that, we find the right not to choose something other than to force someone to make a choice between yes, no or next of kin. We are fundamentally opposed to the fact that people have to record that and that, if they do not, the government decides that your body belongs to the State. We think that is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u77	There is only one way to find out whether this system is achieving results, namely by trying at least for a time. As for the right not to choose: even with a person who does not make a decision, at some point the question arises as to what you do with the organs: will it be yes, no, or will I leave it to the next of kin? If someone doesn't choose now, that decision comes with the next of kin. However, this choice is also explicitly stated in this legislative proposal. What does the PVV then base on that the right not to choose would be threatened with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u78	Anyone who, for whatever reason, decides not to register but agrees with his partner "if something happens to me, I want sister and in that case" is now forced to make a choice between yes, no or leave it to the next of kin. If that person doesn't want to choose, the State decides that person is a donor. We consider this to be fundamentally incorrect. We believe that we should respect those who want to be donors. That's great; that's something the State can encourage and the State can communicate about, but the final decision must be with the donor himself. In doing so, we find the right not to choose, also a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mrs Klever cites the example of someone who does not want to register, but who explicitly indicates to his partner how he wants it to be. That person can simply indicate that choice, can't he? What's the problem with stating that explicitly? In that way, you have at least figured out how the group wants to have it that doesn't make a decision now, for whatever reason; often people just haven't thought about it. The choice not to choose is also explicitly included in Mrs Dijkstra's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u80	I dispute that that choice is in the proposal. That's not a choice. It's either yes or no or next of kin. There are people who do not want to record their choice, and I think we should respect that. They can have a lot of reasons for that: it can be because of their faith, it can be because they haven't decided yet, it can be because they want to talk to their partner about it and it can also be that they do not want to be a donor in certain situations and in other situations. I do not think that as a government we should force people to make that choice. That's a step too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u81	I shall continue with Mrs Voortman's justified point. Mrs Klever's reasoning is not correct. She herself gave the example of someone who discusses it with the partner. So that's one of four possibilities: yes, no, to name next of kin or a specific person. So right now, I would like to tell Mrs Klever, you don't worry about it anymore when you don't do anything, because then it's up to the next of kin, on whom you have no influence. It is precisely in this bill that it is yes, no, next of kin or someone specific. This not only contributes to life's talk, but also that after death there is certainty about who will decide for you if you do not want to decide for yourself. The choice not to choose is now enshrined in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u82	I indicated that some people talk to their partner about it and that might be one of the reasons why people do not want to record that choice. There are other reasons why people don't want to record that choice. I do not think that the government should force people in this kind of very sensitive medical-ethical issues to make a choice now just in case. We don't do that in abortion, we don't do that in euthanasia, and we shouldn't do that in organ donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u83	I call Mrs Bruins Slot. At the same time, I am looking at the list of speakers and the further planning today. I do not think it will be possible to complete the first term of office before lunch. I think we're gonna stop around 1.30 p.m. and then we're gonna look at another moment to finish the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u84	You're talking about another moment. I hope this is a follow-up to the lunch break, or could it be next week? That seems very undesirable to me, given the nature of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u85	I understand that very well. I didn't mean to follow the lunch break. After all, we also have a debate on the influx of refugees, which the entire Chamber has asked for. I know that legislation is very important, so we will look at a moment when there is not too much time between now and the next speakers. This is also important for the people who have been following the debate for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u86	Then I would like to make the point of order that I disagree. I really think we should finish this debate in a continuous period. We're working on the whole talk right now. The importance is very great. The refugee debate is also important, but I really do not think it is possible to interrupt a legislative debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u87	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u88	We agree; I would like to support Mr Rutte in this. Look how quickly we can reach agreement, even in this debate. Although I have already had my turn as a speaker, I am not in favour of continuing the debate later. On the contrary, I believe that the coherence of all arguments and the interaction is important. If it could be tomorrow, it's something else, but waiting a few days doesn't seem wise. I would also do that other debate. The lunch break may be very short for me, but I really want to continue with this debate today. The other debate should then start a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u89	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u90	I can only agree with the previous speakers. I really don't think it's right to postpone. We can also have a sandwich in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u91	Let me get this straight. It's not about us having a lunch break if we need to. However, we also have staff to deal with, and this is a right of pause. It's always got to do with that. I myself spoke on this dossier, so I know exactly what it means to speak properly. We will see if we can continue the debate tonight, so that we do not have to wait too long. That's the option there is. I hope you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u92	I would prefer to proceed now and, if necessary, start the asylum debate later. I think there is another debate on VWS on the agenda tonight. I think we can do that later. If there's no other way, that would be an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u93	I'm fine with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u94	That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u95	That's nice, isn't it? But I'd like to finish the first term today. That's my proposal. You're looking for a solution to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr Van der Staaij has not been here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u97	I agree with the other speakers. In my opinion, the normal course of events is that a debate sometimes ends a little bit and that the next debate starts a little later. It does not seem dramatic to me when it comes to the asylum debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u98	The latter is also my preference, to continue after lunch. If that does not work, we are very willing to see what we can do with tonight's general practitioner debate, however important it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u99	I have no objection if we continue this debate tonight or at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u100	I have listened to all the arguments. Oh, I forgot Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yes, Mr. President, I'm already behind the chair, so I understand you don't see me directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u102	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u103	I am committed to completing the first term of office today. When a legislative debate ends, it is usually used to start a subsequent debate later. The Prime Minister may be able to start with the Minister at 3.30 p.m. I assume he also attaches importance to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u104	We're gonna check it out. If that works, it won't be a problem. However, I understand that it is also an option to conclude the first deadline this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u105	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr Pechtold, I make a proposal and you can come back to the regulation. Let us now give Mrs Bruins Slot the floor. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the author, Mrs Dijkstra, for her commitment to raising the issue of organ donation. It is not an easy process to come up with an initiative proposal. She's worked on it before, like me, but it's hard work and it takes a lot of effort on top of normal work. Because of the medical-ethical subject, it certainly requires a lot more effort. Congratulations from the CDA Group on that. We also congratulate the staff involved in the process, because without them we cannot do this kind of thing. The CDA shares with the applicant the importance of the availability of adequate organ donors. Unfortunately, we see that there are still waiting lists for people who need a new kidney, liver, lung or other organ. There are still many Dutch people whose quality of life is severely restricted by having to wait unnecessarily long for a new organ. Every year people are also told that they are taken off the waiting list because their condition has deteriorated so that they are no longer transplantable. And every year, people still die because a new organ eventually becomes available too late. It is therefore a good thing that we are talking today about the registration system and its possible improvements. The CDA also sees the importance of taking effective measures. From that point of view, the CDA is also looking at this bill. The current law on organ donation has been established after a long and careful reflection. In doing so, consideration has been given to the importance of increasing organ supply and the importance of protecting the donor and the donor's right to self-determination. According to the Council of State, infringement of the donor's right to self-determination may be justified, but requires careful consideration, not least because the proposal also affects the constitutional and international right to inviolability of the body. Questions on subsidiarity and proportionality, and therefore on effectiveness, are important, the Council of State points out. The CDA therefore still has questions on several aspects to the petitioner but also to the government. As the Council of State said, the proposal directly affects Article 11 of the Constitution and the international right to inviolability of the body under Article 8 of the ECHR. This right to self-determination means that you have the right to be protected from violations and violations of the body by others. To what extent does this also mean that you have the right not to want or to be able to make a choice? The applicant argues that this is the option "choose my next of kin" or "choose a specific third person," but that can also be a choice that you may not or may not want to make? I would like to receive a response from the initiator. I'm getting to the next of kin position. Survivors are often confronted with the issue of organ donation at a very painful and emotionally charged moment. Survivors are of course not primarily concerned at that time with the question of what should happen to the organs. It helps if at that time the positive or negative choice of the deceased himself is also known, preferably if it has been discussed personally during life, but if necessary if it is recorded in the donor registry. The current law on organ donation assigns an important position to the survivors of the potential donor. If the deceased has not registered, the law on organ donation grants the decision on whether or not to donate to the next of kin. The current law explicitly states that respect for the interests of the survivors plays an important role. Does the applicant consider that this principle is maintained in its proposal? The system proposed by the initiator does not distinguish between persons who have been explicitly registered for the donation of bodies and persons who have not spoken and whose permission has been given by the government on "yes'. Survivors therefore do not know in such a situation whether the deceased has registered as an organ donor consciously or implicitly, i.e. imposed by the government. Express approval on the one hand and tacit approval on the other are therefore indistinguishable from each other in the donor register. The applicant indicates that it does not expect an increase in the number of survivors who will block a "yes" after the introduction of the ADR system. I have a question about that. Then how does the applicant respond to the recent study which shows that the greater the doubt about the registration, the greater the likelihood that next of kin will object? That study states that in the case of yes registration at present only 6% of the next of kin do not agree to a donation. What does the author think will happen to this refusal rate if there is uncertainty and uncertainty about the implicit wish of the deceased? The applicant argues that a careful writing procedure is really important. One aspect of a careful writing procedure is that everyone really receives the letter with the request to become an organ donor. Research by EenVandaag shows that 8% have never seen a donor form before. Of course, I do not want to make that research absolute, but it is a fact that mail and digital mail do not always arrive. How can the applicant ensure that the registration procedure is such that every 18-year-old Dutch person is reached? In Article 20 (5) of the bill, the applicant states that, if the family makes it plausible that a year of registration was against organ donation, the doctor may decide that there is no organ donation. Let us take as an example a person who has not given explicit consent because he or she, for example, did not want to think about one's own death and what should happen to the body. In such a case, the conversation about organ donation probably never took place, so the next of kin cannot make it plausible that the deceased would not have wanted to donate. How is Mrs Dijkstra's proposal to ensure that these relatives can also have a vote? Another element is that the proposed system does not require the consent of the next of kin if there is a yes registration. The applicant also indicates that doctors can rely on the registration found in the Donor Register and that the next of kin therefore no longer need to be asked for permission. Survivors will have to try to prove by themselves that the deceased didn't want to be an organ donor. Is the applicant satisfied that survivors will be aware of these possibilities in good time at all times? Do they know that they can turn it in themselves? The death of a family member is a profound and emotional event. People often feel overwhelmed in such a hospital environment. A lot of decisions have to be made at the same time. Often there is not constant contact with the doctors. When then is the right time to take the initiative as next of kin to start on organ donation? How can the next of kin verify that a family member is registered as an organ donor? The pilots with the donation officer show that the doctor's person is extremely important in the question of whether donation is being made. The doctor puts a big stamp on this. Article 20 (5) requires the family to make it plausible that their family member was opposed to donation. In such a case, the doctor will decide whether that explanation is plausible. So it's sort of a salomon judgment. How does the applicant intend to arrange for all doctors to weigh in the same careful manner whether or not a family member's story is plausible? The applicant states in the written reply that there must be serious emotional concerns in the case of survivors. Mr Van Gerven also had a number of questions about this. The applicant further fills that out by indicating that relatives would be in severe psychological distress if the donation continued. What does the performer mean by severe psychological distress? How can the next of kin prove that he or she is in severe psychological distress? With a certain probability, a doctor can therefore decide against the wishes of the next of kin that organ donation should be made, because the next of kin has not been able to make it plausible. What possibilities does the next of kin still have to ask for a review if a doctor decides that the story of a next of kin is not plausible? This also brings me to part of the written exchange of views with the Chamber, namely on a point raised by the SGP. The SGP has asked questions about the variant that is always called 3A. I'm just gonna take over that name so it's easy to find out exactly which variant is meant. Variant 3A means that a person who has not made a choice is automatically registered in the category where the next of kin decide. In response to the SGP's question, the initiator indicated that she did not choose this variant because it did not in fact make any substantial difference to the current situation. The CDA wonders whether this reasoning is entirely correct. The current system is based on "no" in case of non-registration, except when the next of kin decides positively. The variant 3A seems to be more of a positive basic attitude towards organ donation, because non-registration means "yes" provided that the next of kin decide positively. I would like to receive a response from Mrs Dijkstra to that reasoning. The CDA would like to receive further clarification from the applicant in response to all these questions, because the CDA does not want to make it even more difficult for the next of kin to face the sudden death of their relatives. In addition, the CDA wants to avoid making it even more difficult for the next of kin to cope with the loss by maintaining a feeling that they have not been properly included in the organ donation process. Now I come to the aspect of the willless and the actually incompetent. In the Netherlands there is no formal registration of people who are incompetent or of actually incompetent persons. As a result, it will not be possible in advance to exclude this group from sending the donor form and from registration in case of non-response. Wisdoms are people who are unable to understand the information and to make an assessment. So these are people who do not understand what is the result of a decision. This also applies to the decision not to respond or to respond to the call for registration. Under Article 11, second paragraph, of Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal, the legal representative will decide whether or not to donate an organ to persons who are unable to give a reasonable appreciation of their interests. The legal representative therefore has a very important role to play in this. However, the requirement of the legal representative in the initiative proposal is a considerable limitation compared to the current Article 11, first paragraph, of the Organ Donation Act. The present law on organ donation refers to "the spouse, registered partner or other companion living with him, or to the absence or inaccessibility of these relatives, who are immediately accessible to the second degree, or to the absence or inaccessibility of these relatives by the immediately accessible adult relatives up to and including the second degree." I am sorry to quote this article exactly, but it really is in the current law on organ donation. Why did the applicant choose the legal representative and not stick to the old definition for the willless? The petitioner extends the law on the willless also on another point. The current law on organ donation provides for the following in Article 11, second paragraph: "If, during the period prior to his death, a person who has not been able to reasonably assess his interests in organ donation, although he has been able to do so during a period of his life from the age of 12 years, there is no declaration of will regarding organ removal, such consent may be granted by the persons referred to in paragraph 1 after the determination of death." It follows from this article in the current law that people who have been incompetent throughout their lives cannot currently be an organ donor. They have never been able to decide on this because they have never been able to understand and choose such a careful, well-considered decision. The legislator therefore assumes that they have never been able to make a choice by law, because they are incompetent. This is, for example, the reason why mentally disabled people who are incompetent cannot be a test subject in a medical examination. Their interests deserve extra protection from the government. This is also laid down in the current Law on organ donation. However, the applicant broadens this criterion. Now, the proposal for an own-initiative law provides for the eligibility for organ donation of those who have been incompetent for their entire lives. Their organs can also be used for scientific research. Why did the applicant choose to do this? I would also like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this enlargement? In the written reply, the applicant indicated that the legal representative could cancel the registration of the willless person. This is set out in Article 11, second paragraph. In doing so, however, the applicant ignores the fact that there are many unskilled persons who do not have a legal representative. The whole legislative proposal does not seem to contain any basis for removing the organ donation for non-skills without a legal representative on the grounds of incompetence. There is now no legal provision governing that. How will this work in practice in the eyes of the applicant? Does the bill now provide sufficient guarantees for those who have no legal representative? How does the applicant intend to ensure that the formal rule "will' be excluded from organ donation "shall' be actually enforceable and enforceable? In addition, the applicant notes in the written exchange of views that any person can contact the Minister with information on whether a registered person is able to reasonably assess his interests. This is provided for in Article 10a (4). In practice, this will usually be a doctor or family member, she writes. The applicant further writes that it is assessed by or on behalf of the Minister whether the information provided makes it clear or plausible that the person concerned is not in a position to reasonably assess his interests. However, it is not clear to me how this is going to work. How can the Minister have the information if there is no record of anyone being incompetent or not? How fast can this happen, because time is also an important factor in organ donation? I would like a more detailed explanation from the applicant on this point. In this context, I would like to hear from the Minister how she believes this will be implemented in practice and what problems there may still be in this area. If the Minister has possible solutions to this, of course I would like to hear them. In addition to unqualified persons, there are also people who are actually incompetent. These are, for example, illiterate, low-literate and people who are not sufficiently powerful in the Dutch language. They can also be registered as "yes" without knowing this by not being able to read or understand letters with the call. The applicant's reply to this point is that the next of kin should mention it. But what happens if a factually incompetent person has no next of kin who are present at the same time and are able to take action? I am thinking, for example, of homeless people who die. Does the applicant consider that it can always be expected that organ donation can be made immediately? In addition, it indicates that it wants to provide a lot of information, including with videos, in order to reach willless, actually incompetent and low-literate. The last donor campaign reached 80% of non-registereds. That is a very high percentage for an information campaign. What possibilities does the applicant see for a 100% covering information? How can we really reach everyone? I would also ask the Minister to answer that question. The applicant states in the reply that in her view a final arrangement for persons who are unwilling to act and who are not capable of doing so is impossible and not necessary. Is this not a logical and inevitable consequence of the choice of an ADR system? This is possible in the current system of organ donation. The Council of State states that the right to inviolability of the body and the right to self-determination must always be prevented from being illusory in advance. I have taken over the term "illusoir" because I could not find a good, more common Dutch translation for it. I haven't used the word before, but it's quite the writing language of the Council of State. How does the applicant respond to that reasoning of the Council of State? As mentioned above, the applicant claims that a final scheme for persons who are unwilling to act and who are actually incompetent in the ADR system is impossible. In practice, attempts will be made to reach legal representatives, the willless and actually incompetent by means of information and translated leaflets. This implies the risk of organ donation in actually incompetent or completely incompetent persons by being registered as "yes" when they might not have wanted to do so. Now the fact that the removal of organs without required permission is punishable by Article 32 of the Organ Donation Act. So the moment organs are taken out while there is actually no "yes," that's a criminal offense. How does the applicant view the criminalisation currently contained in the Organ Donation Act in the light of the proposed ADR system? I would also like to have the Minister's reflection on this point. For the CDA, we must always be aware of the weak in society. Wilson-educated and actually incompetent individuals really deserve the protection of the government. That is why I ask Mrs Dijkstra to come up with a comprehensive answer to the questions that have been asked on this subject. Before I turn to the questions of proportionality and subsidiarity, I have one last point that was not explicitly raised in the written round of questions. I should have done that in the round of questions. However, I did not see until later that this section had yet to be discussed. Otherwise, I would have liked to bring it up earlier. My point concerns the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. That law assumes the patient's explicit consent before the doctor is allowed to perform a medical action. The right to self-determination is therefore a guiding principle. In this respect, the starting point of the current system of organ donation is in line with this. The Council of State notes that the initiative proposal breaks with this principle by assuming that consent has been given in case of non-registration. How does the initiator assess the difference in the starting point between the amendment to the Organ Donation Act that she proposes and the Medical Treatment Agreement Act? The latter will also apply later. What is the Minister's view on this? When it comes to proportionality, you talk about how effective a proposal is. According to the Council of State, the ADR system infringes Article 11 of the Constitution. It says that every person has the right to inviolability of his body. This can be waived if this is regulated by law and if the criteria of relevance, subsidiarity and proportionality are met. Proportionality is therefore a question of the effectiveness of a proposal. As it is to be assumed that the effectiveness is lower, the infringement of the constitutional right to inviolability of the body will be less easily justified. The CDA noted in the debate that we have here but also in the written exchange of views that there is uncertainty about the effectiveness of the proposal. The problem is, among other things, that no country has exactly the same system that is currently being proposed in the Netherlands. In addition, there are several factors that can influence differences in the number of registrations per country, including cultural aspects. The Cabinet also indicates that research data at the time showed that there is no significant difference in effectiveness between the current system and the ADR system. This uncertainty about the effects of a system change is reinforced by recent surveys, the cabinet writes. The Council of State also concludes that the Master Plan provides organ donation with hard empirical evidence for the hypothesis that a no objection system is much more effective than the consent system. In the view of the Council of State, the expectation expressed in the master plan of an increase in the number of donors by 25% cannot simply serve as an adequate basis. He indicated that a large part of the accompanying measures had already been implemented. He also points out several other studies. However, in the note on the report, the applicant, Mrs Dijkstra, quotes from other studies. The other studies would show that the new system has positive effects. Can the applicant indicate how she looks at the arguments of the cabinet? Can it explain why it attaches more importance to one research than to the other? So the applicant says that the system is effective, but the cabinet says that it has doubts. I therefore ask the Minister how she looks at the sometimes contradictory results of studies on the effectiveness of the proposed ADR system. How does she view Mrs Dijkstra's argument? If you translate the concept of subsidiarity, it's actually about promising new developments. Are there any rapid developments that will allow for other less radical measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u108	Finish your sentence first, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u109	I wanted to start a new chapter and see Mr Van Gerven standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u110	Yeah, I see Mr. Van Gerven standing there, too, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u111	I think I'll need about five minutes to finish my story after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u112	This is a very important point, namely how to assess the legislative proposal before us. You can do that along a principled line, where you are very tight in it. However, I hear now that Mrs Bruins Slot is asking all kinds of questions about the effectiveness of the ADR system. Can I conclude from this that for the CDA there is not a fundamental break point in choosing one system or another, but that it is also explicitly about the effectiveness of these systems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u113	I don't have much with breakpoints anyway. The CDA really shares with Mrs Dijkstra that it is important to see how we can increase the number of organ donors. That is why we are looking at the proposal in a very constructive way. We put that along a number of aspects that the Council of State believes you should look at when violating constitutional law. On the other hand, the CDA considers the position of the next of kin and the unskilled very important. That's why we have questions about that. That is the balance-of-payments framework that we are applying, and that follows the questions we are now asking Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u114	I conclude from this that it is not a point of principle. We're going back to 1995, to one of your predecessors...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u115	Well, Mr. Van Gerven, it must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u116	Let me make a point of order: this is a crucial legislative proposal in principle. I would like to recall history in order to be able to make this point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Van Gerven, the Rules of Procedure state that interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr President, you have been in the debate we have had so far and have allowed all kinds of interruptions, including paintings. I think it does justice to this legal process. Mr Lansink criticized Mr Bolkestein in 1995 because he made a number of it and said in a somewhat demagogic way: if we move to the objection system, then the organs of the State will become. The objection system was a kind of precursor to the ADR system. Mr Lansink said: no, the CDA is taking a practical position, so we are looking at what is most effective, and we are following that system. That was then the objection system, in which the CDA headed a different course than the VVD. Does the current CDA spokesperson support this idea of its predecessor, Mr Lansink, in 1995?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Lansink, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Van
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u120	That's when I was in high school. It's been a long time. The CDA really looks constructively at Mrs Dijkstra's proposal, because we share the importance of increasing the number of organ donors. That is what we are putting through the aspects of proportionality, subsidiarity, willlessness and the position of the next of kin. I think it is important to do this in a very careful way, because this subject has taken up a lot of time and energy. It takes a careful balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mr Van Gerven, normally the interruptions are in two, but I am very generous, because you may make one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u122	I conclude from this that it depends on how carefully this bill is designed and that there is room for the CDA to vote in favour of this bill. I would like to recall a motion adopted at the CDA Congress of 30 June 2012, which is urging the ADR system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u123	It is true that the CDA is really looking very constructively at this proposal and that we need Mrs Dijkstra's answers to make a final balance in the group. I am therefore looking forward to replying to the applicant on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u124	Proceed, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr. Chairman. Before Mr Van Gerven took me back in history 20 years ago, I was talking about subsidiarity. I must say that Mr Pechtold has shown himself to be the true historian here by going back 50 years in history. Now, however, I would like to talk about subsidiarity. From the point of view of subsidiarity, it must be considered whether measures which are less significant from the point of view of self-determination than those proposed at present can be considered. I have a few questions for the government about this. The Minister's position in this area is well known. She has previously written that she is opposed to a system change. At the same time, it recognises the need to increase the level of registration. That is why I ask the Minister what she really intends to do in order to further promote effectiveness. Last year, during a debate, we talked about a number of pilots running in hospitals that seemed to be hopeful. What's going on with that? In the same debate, the VVD Group submitted a note with suggestions to make current policies more effective. This note and the Minister's policy response are formally on the agenda of a debate that we are not having until next week. Since the issue of effectiveness and subsidiarity is also important for this legislative proposal, I would ask the Minister to address the following questions in this debate. What profit does the Minister intend to make in raising knowledge and raising awareness among general practitioners? The Minister sees no reason to oblige municipalities to distribute forms, while one in five municipalities still does not play an active role. Why does one in five municipalities still not play an active role in this? Is the Minister prepared to act on this? What about the exploration to promote online donor registration by paying more attention to this in the use of government digital services? Mrs Dijkstra's answers to the questions show that only one in six 18-year-olds received organ donation in the classroom. I find that really embarrassingly little. A good discussion about the importance of organ donation and the consequences of a positive choice for organ donation can arise in the vicinity of the school. What effects can be expected from increasing young people's knowledge of organ donation? I would like to receive a response from the applicant and from the Minister. At the same time, there are areas where there is a clear improvement, such as the uniform method of donation procedures in hospitals and the proper way of communicating with relatives about death and donation possibilities, as well as optimising the deployment of independent take-out teams. Regardless of whether or not we change the registration system, we must continue to use it in these areas. What additional action does the Minister take on this? The answers given by the initiator show that she does not want to wait for these developments and their effectiveness. She writes: "Otherwise, these pilots have never been meant to provide information about the implementation of an ADR system, so there is no need to wait for the results of these pilots." The CDA Group does not fully follow that reasoning. The introduction of the ADR system is not an end in itself for the initiator, is it not? As far as the CDA is concerned, we are working together to increase the potential of donors and to increase the number of organ donations. I would like to hear another explanation from the initiator as to why she does not consider the effectiveness of these measures to be relevant in the context of this legislative proposal. I would like to put another aspect to the applicant. There are other alternative systems conceivable than just the ADR system. An example is a system in which, if people do not register, it automatically becomes apparent in the system that the decision lies with the next of kin. A second option is to include in the registration system either an implicit or an explicit yes. Why does the applicant reject these alternatives? Mr President, the world is not standing still. You know that better than anyone. Developments are moving faster and faster. Before we know it, technological development has caught up with the social debate. Last year we talked about a promising development in the University Medical Centre Groningen, where a perfusion chamber was developed, in which organs could be better preserved and partially restored. This could increase donor potential in the long term. In the debate, the Minister indicated that she was talking to the UMC Groningen in order to use the perfusion chamber also for other transplant centres. So, what's going on with these conversations, anyway? Are there any further developments in this area to be expected? In addition, a revolution in healthcare has been expected for some time through 3D printing. Can the Minister indicate whether she sees promising medium-term developments here? In recent weeks, media attention has been paid to a new development called CRISPR. With CRISPR, scientists can precisely modify the genes in the DNA. You can start a whole social debate on that, and I'm sure you will. This technology could, for example, be used to change pigs in such a way that their organs become suitable for transplantation to humans. Can the applicant and the minister reflect on these developments? I'm coming to a closure. The objective of Mrs Dijkstra's legislative proposal is clear, namely to maximise organ and tissue donation, so that as many people as possible who need a transplant get a second chance to live or improve the quality of their lives. It is our responsibility, and therefore that of the CDA, to look seriously at any possibility of ensuring that people who are now waiting for an organ get it as soon as possible. That is why I look forward to the response of the applicant and the government to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u126	I would like to express my appreciation for Mrs Bruins Slot's detailed and nuanced contribution. Every now and then I heard not only the public health spokesperson arguing, but also the lawyer. That only increases the quality of this treatment. In her extensive contribution, Mrs Bruins Slot has criticised and questioned a number of issues. What are the main points for the CDA and the individual members of the group that could provide support for this bill? In other words, can Mrs Bruins Slot briefly summarise where the jumping points are, apart from the questions, comments and opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u127	This is the line I have presented: the effectiveness and proportionality of the proposal, the existing alternatives, subsidiarity, the protection of the position of the willless and the position of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u128	Can I take that up in such a way that, if the CDA is in favour of it in the first place after the examination by the applicant and the Minister, there is room for further improvement by means of amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u129	I cannot anticipate Mrs Dijkstra's answers, but the CDA is definitely looking at this proposal in a very constructive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u130	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the D66 Group and in particular Mrs Dijkstra. She is the initiator of the bill we are discussing today. I would like to congratulate you on the work you have done and thank you for answering all the written questions that have also been put by my group. Writing an initiative law is a long process; it sometimes takes years. You must have a lot of patience and perseverance for it. Otherwise, the law won't come. But this law is there and today we are talking about it. The Christian Union shares D66's great concerns about the shortage of donors. With D66 we see that the waiting lists don't take off. For a kidney people wait on average for more than four years and for the other organs the waiting period may be up to two years. Every year too many people die for whom a donor organ is late. I understand it's around 150. We also see that many people are not coming to register. I often hear the reason it just doesn't happen. I am asking myself whether it is really so much trouble or whether it is also the inconvenience in our society when it comes to the moment of death. Isn't the reason to think about it, to make decisions now for the moment you're hoping for for a very long time to come? Yeah, it's hard, but it's also so important to make that decision, to register, whatever your choice is, and to talk to your partner, your kids, with lovers. D66 aims to make it easier for people to register with the initiative proposal. Just like now, everyone who becomes 18 receives a letter to register. But unlike today, people who do not respond to a repeated call are registered as donors by the government. The Christian Union has difficulty with the Active Donor Registration System, because it has the possibility of people being passively registered as donors. The government then decides for you that your body may benefit society after death. At the core is the question of who your body belongs to, and then the question of who can decide on it. The body is not from the government or doctors, but from people themselves. Believers see the body as being given by the Creator to them. It's not good if the government makes the choice for people what happens to their bodies after they die. This is too much of an infringement of physical integrity. It is people themselves who, out of charity, decide to make their organs available after their death. Is there still charity when the government makes this choice for people? In the view of the Christian Union, the role of the government here is limited. Beside love is a matter of people among themselves and does not fit an urge through a system or by the government. The question is whether this bill will really change the shortage of donors, which will reduce the long waiting lists. Comparative research on decision-making systems in other European countries seems to suggest a link between non-objection systems and more donor supply, but other studies contradict this. In countries where the system has changed, such as Sweden and Italy, there has been no clear impact on the number of organ donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u131	I would like to mention the fundamental point made by Mrs Dik-Faber. It states that with an ADR system the State, as it were, decides on a body. Now eleven years ago, the Christian Union voted in favour of Agnes Kant's motion to introduce the non-objection system. Apparently, there was a different way of thinking in the Christian Union at that time. Can Mrs Dik-Faber explain again what were the considerations for the Christian Union at the time in order to be in favour of a non-objection system, and why she is not now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u132	I have indicated that we do see the big problem of waiting lists in our country. There is a large group of people who need an organ donor and there is a shortage of organ donors. We can see that tension there. Indeed, in 2005, Mrs Huizinga, on behalf of the Christian Union, I believe that, in her circumstances, a decision was taken to sign the motion tabled by the SP. She faced the big problem. She's the one who made the decision. Later on, the Christian Union reviewed all the pros and cons, and for a few years now has taken the view that this is too much contrary to the physical integrity of people. We have had debates on this before, including with Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u133	I understand. I also welcome Mrs Dik-Faber's clear outline of the considerations. But the point that played twenty years ago and was then brought up by Bolkestein of the VVD is: we do not want the body of the State to become. Mrs Dik-Faber says it less sharply, a little more nuanced, because she is not Bolkestein, namely: we think that the government then intervenes too much in physical integrity. But with this proposal, people make their own decisions, don't they? Even though you're registered as a donor when you haven't made a decision, you always have the opportunity to object, don't you? The right to self-determination is thus maintained, including in the ADR system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u134	In the system now proposed by D66, people need to register actively. If they don't, the government puts a check on it: yes, I'm a donor. That's a passive choice of people to register as donors. We can never know with certainty whether that is a conscious choice of people or whether people, for whatever reason, allow this to happen and ultimately do not support it. I think that is a great uncertainty in Mrs Dijkstra's proposal. I don't want that situation to develop. That too is an important reason why we are opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u135	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u136	I think Mr. Pechtold was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u137	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u138	Ladies first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Pechtold. Mrs Dik-Faber rightly makes an important point about people having to make their own choices, but once someone has died, of course he can no longer choose for himself. Research shows that quite a lot of people want to be donors when you ask them directly, but they don't get around to actually arranging that for once. If you fall into that category, you die and then it's decided that your organs shouldn't be used as donor organs, willn't they actually act against the person's wishes? How does the Christian Union deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u140	I also see the large group that does not register. I believe it's 7 million people. I also pointed out in my introduction that it might have less to do with the trouble it takes. I don't believe in that. It goes through DigiD; it's a single computer registration. I think it has a lot more to do with the inconvenience in our society to think about death and beyond. I would very much like us in society to talk about this much more. We may be able to contribute to this through the political debate. I would very much like the government to confront people who report to a desk with donor registration, with the fact that it is a possibility. I would like the government to make an urgent appeal to people to register. Those are the steps I would like to take, because the 7 million group is far too large. That group really needs to be smaller, but not the way it is proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u141	The proposal lists people. There's an urge for people to register at least. I understand that the Christian Union wants that in itself. Should the Christian Union not then table a few amendments to do something about this? In itself, this proposal does not force you to make certain choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u142	This proposal will include a choice for everyone. Mr Pechtold mentioned four options in this debate: I am a donor, I am not a donor, I leave it to my next of kin or I leave it to a particular person to be named. Those are the choices. If you do not make a choice, the government will record for you that you are a donor, and that is my group's big objection to the present bill from the D66 Group. A choice is always made. If you don't make that choice yourself, the government will do it for you. For my group, that is very far away from charity, the basis for registering. It is the government that decides to do so. I would much rather that next of kin finally make a decision if people don't register as in the current system than the government does for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u143	Yet I always sense the mistake of thinking that the government does so. No, it happened in life the moment you actively had the choice to make use of your self-determination. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber, who talks so much about charity and care: how does she look after 20 or 30 years at the fact that people now say 'if people need an organ, then they will know very quickly whether they want it'. The other side of the system, the people who are now actively contributing to donor registration, is a social and solidarity system. Of course, making use of it can only be maintained if we are all aware that we have a choice, and perhaps even a mandatory choice. How does she look at this from her Christianly motivated background?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u144	Because of this charity and solidarity, I think it is very important that people register. I too am concerned that people are not doing enough, that there is another group of 7 million who do not register and choose for themselves. That is why my group wants to do everything it can to reduce that 7 million. I have also seen that this has not been done in recent years, so we have to look for other ways. I think that people should be confronted with this choice much more often and much more intrusively, and that must be done. However, a compulsory choice is not a choice for me. A mandatory choice can never be charity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u145	I'm saying it's not a mandatory choice. The present system is precisely that it is only after your death that you become painfully aware that you have not paid attention to that self-determination. I am genuinely interested in the motivation of the Christian Union. Mrs Dik-Faber has just mentioned the body and the government. By the way, the government, that is you and I, as representatives of the people, is allowed to make laws with a cabinet. It's not an abstract and scary organ that goes over us. No, we're the government as a society. Mrs. Dik-Faber talked about the body every time. I may disagree with Christians about the question of when life begins, but do we agree when life ends, when the earthly life of our physical body stops when death is established? That is not, as Mrs Dik-Faber suggests, the property of the state. No, it's a remnant. When you're buried in a ten-year grave, everything happens with what we still call "body," where the government handles business. So I'm just wondering out of interest if Mrs Dik-Faber agrees with me that at the time of the death, we're talking about something different than the moment before, if there's a living being with brain power?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u146	That is a whole speech by Mr Pechtold with many questions. For my group, the physical integrity of people is paramount. I don't think there's that much difference between living and dying. That physical integrity is also enshrined in our Constitution and in human rights treaties. I think it's extremely important that people make decisions about their bodies after they die in life. That is why we are also discussing the donor registration system in this debate today. People need to register. I make an appeal to people to register, whatever choice they make. Well, at least that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u147	A little more principled, because I just want to understand. As a government, we now decide with the Coroner's Act that there is a choice between cremation and burial, with associated deadlines? Surely your right to self-determination doesn't go so far as to allow you to think in extenso what happens to your body? As a society, we have set limits to this, because there are a number of issues that need to be settled after death. So I wonder if thinking about that period should not take place much more humanely during life, with the individual, than after that by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u148	I fully agree with Mr Pechtold. At the beginning of my speech, I noted that we were far too reluctant to consider that death could occur prematurely, that there will be death. We think far too little about the question: do I want to be an organ donor after my death? As a society, we think far too little about this. That is why I appeal to us as a society, to us as a political one, to have that social debate more often in order to be able to make an informed decision about your body and a possible donation when the death has taken place. I will continue my speech. The initiativer herself states that, at least in the explanatory memorandum, I have read that it goes too far to say that the introduction of a non-objection system in itself automatically leads to more donors. It seems that other factors are also of decisive influence. I am thinking here of the organisation of the donation process in hospitals, the average age of donors, the developments in relevant mortality, the approach of the next of kin and public information. Does the initiator agree with me that there is still much to be done on some of these points? I would like to go into more detail about the situation of the next of kin and the approach of the next of kin. I think we need to make people much more aware that if they do not make a choice, next of kin will decide for them. I suspect a lot of people don't know this. Then this puts doctors in an uncomfortable situation. At an extremely sad and emotional moment, they should talk to relatives about donating organs from their recently deceased lovers. That conversation will be held by doctors anyway, but that conversation will be more difficult if people haven't registered as donors. We therefore see in the figures that most of the next of kin do not give permission to do so. Only 30% agree. Let us therefore make every effort to give this discussion more attention to training and professional practice. I understand that the Dutch Transplantation Foundation already teaches doctors, but wouldn't it be a much better idea if the KNMG drew up a directive on this? How does the initiator view this? This bill makes no distinction between those who actively opt for a "yes" and those who, following repeated requests for registration, do not hear from themselves and thus receive a "yes" from the government. By making no distinction, next of kin will be taxed more heavily. After all, they do not know whether the deceased's choice has been an active or passive choice. With this information, relatives may be more likely to be inclined to a "no" because they do not know what the deceased's express wish is. Only if a "yes" has been deliberately registered will next of kin give permission to donate. I believe that both the KNMG and the Council of State are right to point this out. Does the initiator also wish to respond to this? My group would like to stress that not everyone can or wants to make a choice at any time. That too is a choice that we will have to respect. Another factor determining the number of donors is information campaigns. The campaign "The Netherlands says Yes" with the Donor Week as part of it is well known. An average week of action or donor results in tens of thousands of registrations. That's a lot, but not enough. Therefore, the Christian Union proposes that people be reminded of logical contact with the government about the donor registry and the desirability of registering. What are the exact moments that are going to be considered? For example, you can pick up your passport or renew your driver's license. However, the Christian Union, together with D66, would like to consider other ways than ADR to increase the number of registrations. What does the initiator think of this possibility? I also notice that the registrations of people with a non-western background, for example from Suriname or Morocco, are far behind. Does the initiator also think it is a good idea to develop specific information material for these groups? In the legislative proposal and related documents, I read that the initiator has sought ways of meeting the position of the willless and incompetent. After all, not everyone is able to receive mail, open and read a letter. Not everyone is able to see the consequences of registration and come to an informed decision. The Netherlands has 250,000 illiterate people, 10% of the 15- to 65-year-olds are low-literate and there is a group that does not master the Dutch language well either. I welcome the fact that D66 mentions the concerns about this group, but, frankly, these concerns have not been fully addressed by my group. The current law assumes that the willless cannot qualify for organ donation. Isn't this the most careful starting point because it does as much justice as possible to the physical integrity of people who can't decide for themselves. D66 proposes that, as in the case of children under 12 years of age, legal representatives should decide. Proper information should be provided to these legal representatives. I wonder how final this is. Are we going to reach all the representatives with this? And this has also been mentioned before, not everyone has a legal representative. The initiativer herself also explains that it is inevitable that consent registrations are still taking place in respect of a number of non-skills. I suspect this group is bigger than we think. I would also like to comment on this. I'll come to a conclusion. Against the interests of patients who are waiting for a donor organ, there is a moral appeal for society to register as a donor. With the active donor registration system, it is not people themselves who register out of charity, but the government that makes a decision for people. In the Christian Union's view, this is disproportionately affecting physical integrity. We do not disagree on the problem of long waiting lists. The Christian Union has a number of fundamental objections and I am not convinced that I have already outlined that the ADR system will lead to higher registration. The Christian Union wants to confront people more often and more intrusively with the demand to register. And that's where the government has a role to play. Of course, I hope that this debate and all the debates that we are having in the Chamber on this subject will lead people to register, just as I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. We have three more speakers on the list. We have just had an order debate on when the first deadline could be completed. We have just been able to arrange for the debate on the influx of asylum seekers to take place a little later. I suggest we suspend until 2.05 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work. Then we have a VAO and a vote on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. The three remaining speakers will then be able to speak in this debate. This means that the 30-member debate that was on the agenda for this evening has been taken off the agenda. I'm assuming the care spokesmen will agree to this. I see all these members nodding yes. Fine.
