ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the Chamber. I would remind the House that the debate was suspended on 2 February last after the first time-limits of the Chamber and the Government. We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. It has indeed been a month since we talked about the amendment of the Media Act such as the Secretary of State who submitted it to both Chambers. A month ago, this Chamber was extremely critical of the proposals that were put forward. The NPO would be too controlling. There was discussion about the budget for the broadcasters. Prior surveillance was also a point of discussion. The appointments have given rise to a great deal of controversy and, in a more general sense, the governance has been loosened. Finally, the position of regional broadcasters has also been discussed in detail. The Secretary of State has put forward quite a few points in his first reply. I dare to conclude in all honesty that this has not made it clearer. The Chamber has therefore rightly asked, through you, Madam President, to suspend the debate until four weeks later, so until today. In the last few weeks we had expected the Secretary of State to announce that he would change the law or that there would be a new one. That has not happened, however, and we regret that. That could have taken away a lot of discussion. In the first term, I asked what problem we are actually solving. Is that the problem of using the new media? Is that the problem of reaching young people? I did not receive a clear answer from the Secretary of State in the first place. I keep repeating the question as to whether the proposed amendments to the Media Act will succeed. It was also suggested that Hilversum should discuss less with himself. How many procedures have there been for broadcasting to NPO over the past two years? Maybe the Secretary of State can go into that. That could at least be an indication of how much Hilversum is arguing with itself. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also indicate how many broadcasters we still have on 1 January of this year. We have had 22, and are we not far below that? In short, the images that are called up that Hilversum is a divided house and that it is a Polish country day do not want to be in it with me. In fact, we discussed Poland extensively last time. The order needs to be more open. In the first term, I asked who decides, for example, what is the background of those who supply external programmes. Does that need to be looked at? Should there be some kind of valve on that? Does that have to have some kind of control valve on it? Surely it can't be that any organization of interests can deliver programmes? Such programmes would also be broadcast at the time they were approved by the NPO. The procedure for the creation of broadcasters over the past few decades is certainly a more careful one. Anyway, the Secretary of State might come back to that. With regard to the appointments, the Secretary of State has answered a number of questions from the House of Representatives in recent weeks. I must say that the movement already made here by the Secretary of State in the first term was confirmed in the written round in response to the questions from the House of Representatives. It is a good thing that there may be an adapted procedure for the appointments of officials in general. The question is, of course, when and how it is set in motion. A lot more has happened. The Secretary of State has been almost a street secretary for the past few weeks. He's kind of been traveling all over the country to see whether or not there's enough support for his bill. He was here near the Binnenhof. He neighbored in Utrecht and he has neighbored in many digital streets. There's nothing wrong with that in itself, but it does say something. It almost looks like a soap opera. I could almost draw the conclusion that there was some entertainment in it here and there. Now let this Secretary of State be against entertainment, so that may not be the best qualification. Maybe I should say it's more like a drama. What else happened? Yesterday morning we received a letter from the NPO and some broadcasters. It is a positive fact that I am quite clear that it states that the NPO will no longer interfere with the question, for example, of who may or may not be the presenter of a programme or who may or may not act as guests. By the way, it is remarkable that this is now on paper, because until now it has always been denied that this would be the case. If it had not really been the case, it would not have been necessary to put it on paper. It's on paper now, so obviously there was something going on. However, an assessment may still be carried out afterwards. The question remains as to how this relates to what has been put forward by many political groups in the first term. Sturding remains in general. Yesterday's letter also deals in detail with the way in which external productions are authorised. In accordance with the clarification in the Segers/Heerma motion in the Lower House, this is explained. We have no further direct comments on this. It is interesting to note, however, that in a preliminary draft of the letter sent yesterday, there would be a covenant between the NPO and all broadcasters. Among other things, it said that there should be a maximisation of 20% of broadcasting budgets for external productions. What does the Secretary of State think of such a maximation? Apparently, this did not end up in the letter for nothing, and apparently it has been said about this in the consultation of the Secretary of State with Hilversum. I'm curious about that. Other questions relate, for example, to the professional capacity of the broadcasters towards the NPO when subsequent steps are taken. How can broadcasters defend themselves if they disagree with the content? For us, it is essential to achieve the legal anchoring of the space that broadcasters should have. In the first term, the Secretary of State said that there should be room for manoeuvre. Does the Secretary of State really want this? We believe that the broadcasters as we know them are a great asset. They need all the space and possibilities to challenge what is to be carried out on the basis of mission, objective and/or identity. That space and possibilities must be secured. Broadcasters should not be restricted via a U-turn through the NPO. On this point, I shall table a motion. I've put her with you by now, Mr. Chairman. The President shall: Mr Atsma, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor and Mr Martens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the amendment of the Media Act (34264) may have a significant impact on the Dutch public system;]] [[whereas the Secretary of State for Governance in the NPO has now announced that it will make adjustments;]] [[Whereas the proposed control from the NPO is, or may be, contrary to the space and possibilities that autonomous broadcasters should have within the Dutch public system;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to provide legal guarantees to allow broadcasters to produce and broadcast programmes in accordance with their mission, objectives and/or identity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u3	I assume that if the Chamber has no objection to this motion being tabled, this is also acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u4	But the motion still needs to be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u5	There are undoubtedly some MPs here who want to do this. The motion was signed by three MPs. I have not had the opportunity, given the early hour of this sitting, to seek more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u6	I can see from the fingers that are raised, that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u7	Then that's settled here. We hope that the Secretary of State will be able to meet the CDA Group on this point because, in particular, the elements I raised, namely the scope for mission, objective and/or identity, are really crucial for us when it comes to the future of the media system. Last month we also discussed regional broadcasting in detail. We have seen over the last few weeks that the playing field there may well have become more and more divided. For example, last weekend we received letters from the presidents of the regional broadcasters of Drenthe and Zeeland that they no longer agree with the ambitions of the ROOS plan. The CDA Group is curious how the Secretary of State points this out and what it means if some broadcasters withdraw from the collective plan. What consequences does this have, both for broadcasters and for the total? I asked last time if there was any possibility of granting a concession per province. The Secretary of State responded to this in the sense that this could lead to bureaucracy. The latter will certainly not be the case if you grant concessions per province. It does, however, give the space that some provinces would like to have in order to be able to continue to talk more about their own broadcasting than is mentioned in the present legislative proposal. I wonder if the Secretary of State has changed his mind on this point. All provinces, confirmed by the Secretary of State, are entitled to one regional broadcaster. What does that mean, for example, for the situation in South Holland, for the discussion around West and Rijnmond? What does it mean for the request of AT5 and North Holland to go together? I understand the Secretary of State has rejected that. Finally, I would like to mention the position of regional broadcasting in Fryslân. Mr Ten Hoeve will no doubt table a motion in the near future which will further address the position of Omrop Fryslân. I wonder what concrete commitment the Secretary of State has made over the last four weeks, namely four seven days, and every day there are 24 hours, on this point, to the provincial government of Fryslân, which has also asked once and again for more space in view of its own identity and, above all, the position of the second state language, which will have to be secured for the long term. In short, there are still many questions. The element of steering is crucial for us in the debate. Small steps have been taken by the Secretary of State. We would like to draw our final conclusion on the eve of the final vote on this bill, depending on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the second term of treatment of the Media Act. It took a while, a month to be precise, but then it is. The first deadline took place on 2 February. Not only the PVV, the other parties were also particularly critical at the time. As far as that goes, I'm fine. Very good, keep up the good work! The picture was that this bill might not reach a majority in this house. Honesty dictates that the PVV then thought: why wait longer with the second term? But no, of course it doesn't work that way, because in reality it's like this. In any case, this bill must be rushed through the First Chamber. Now say for yourself: another bill that is going to die in this Chamber, this cabinet, in which citizens' confidence is falling and falling, is of course not going to do any good. And what about the other parties? Well, if there's anything to be gained, even if it's just a small thing, no matter what, if anything for the stage, they'd be happy to participate. In the first term, the State Secretary made a number of commitments. We received a letter about that. Two questions first. First of all, do we currently have anything to say about the substance of the commitments made? Not much. I'll get back to you on that. Secondly, are the commitments made going to be politically effective? That is, of course, interesting, and it will be evident from the vote on this bill, namely whether the other apparently critical parties will stand firm and vote against this law or whether they have been persuaded by the Secretary of State, have been happy with a dead sparrow and will vote for it. We'll see. With regard to these commitments, the following are among others. In his letter to the Chamber, the Secretary of State wrote that the role of the Minister in the appointment, suspension and dismissal of the members of the board of directors of the NPO was removed from the Media Act in the next legislative proposal and that the Minister's right of assent to the boards of NPO and RPO was deleted in the regional broadcasting bill. That comes down to the following. The Minister will no longer interfere with the boards of NPO and RPO and this will then be laid down in the next legislative proposal. The next bill! So commitments have been made here, which have yet to be laid down in a future legislative proposal. Then the question is: what is the point? Pretty little. After all, we are still dealing here with the same unchanged bill, which we have also discussed in the first term. Isn't it crazy to include a future bill in that process; a bill that still needs to be made? The answer is of course: yes, that is very strange. Furthermore, the Secretary of State has promised that he will act in the spirit of this amendment until this future bill enters into force and will agree to all decisions on appointment, suspension and dismissal that the Supervisory Boards of NPO and RPO will submit to him. Yes, of course that all sounds nice and nice, that sounds promising, but it does after the Secretary of State has appointed a VVD party colleague as chairman of the Supervisory Board. So the question is: how much better will it all get in practice? After all, decisions to appoint, dismiss and suspend remain in the back rooms within VVD-house. The appointment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board has at least created the appearance of nepotism and at least the possibility of incompatibility with the Media Act. However, the Secretary of State is not prepared to cancel the appointment. Can the Secretary of State explain why? Why isn't he willing to do that? Why so stubborn, I'd say. Why not undo all the appearances of the table, undo appointments and start with a clean slate? The Secretary of State will have to agree with me that at least he will be done with all the commotion and whining. I'd like to hear a response. How seriously can we take the commitments made? How can the Secretary of State guarantee that these commitments are not just a tissue for bleeding? After all, in the past promises have been made in this house by ministers and State Secretaryes who have been open for years. Having said that, I would like to go back to the question of why the second deadline for this debate had to be postponed by one month. Yes, it was said, then the Secretary of State could work out his commitments, put them on paper. What a load of crap! Did this take a month for this letter? Couldn't we have done it in a week? Was it really a month? Or was the problem not so much with the Secretary of State but with the other parties? Did they think they might be able to take advantage of the situation and get something out of it? Did they perhaps think: "The Media Act is like a pipe cinnamon, everyone sucks it and gets their share"? If the other parties have thought that, how disappointing should it be for them now that this has only delivered on paper a number of commitments that are in fact of no use to us at all. To those parties, to the apparently critical parties, who, thanks to the commitments made, will nevertheless be defeated and will vote in favour, I say: the lollipop that has been given is indeed nothing more than a dead sparrow. It's been a while, a month, but how did the Secretary of State respond to the first term of office? A few quotes. The Secretary of State considers public service broadcasting to be of great importance. The public broadcaster tells the story of the Netherlands. Public service broadcasting gives us a look at the wider world. The public broadcaster is there for everyone, is independent and high-quality. It's a unique hybrid system, surprising, inspiring. It brings depth. The multicolouredness of the Netherlands. Pluriformity. What big words: independent, pluralism. I am curious to see how many citizens will agree with this. I do not think very much, but well, public service broadcasting, as the PVV has said in its first term, is a left-wing, elitist multi-cuifette and the cover-up of the State Secretary's words are not going to change that at all. That's one conclusion. Then conclusion two. The fact that this cabinet is not doing well can also be seen here in the First Chamber. Last Saturday there was an article in De Telegraaf entitled "Crisis in Hilversum." That sounds dramatic. The subtitle was: Secretary of State is trying to save his law. Well, that sounds desperate. What was the case? In Utrecht, the Secretary of State spoke, more precisely, with three senators of opposition parties. So we see again, that's the infamous backroom politics: I give you this and you give me that. That's how it goes. We see that, in reality, it has long since ceased to be a question of the legislative proposal itself. It is no longer about the letter of the Media Act, it is about avoiding defeat for the Secretary of State and thus for this cabinet. That has made this cabinet blackmailable. Debates should even be fed broken by now. It is therefore waiting for the coalition to break. In that respect, the PVV Group says: well, take credit for yourself and quit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. The final treatment in this Chamber of the amendment to the Media Act is characterized by many contradictions. Although entertainment is not written in the name of the Secretary of State, the theatre of laughter celebrates when it comes to appointments, the widespread demand for rest in the media country, the interpretation of the prior monitoring of programming and the request for the adoption of a crumbling law, because many changes and improvements will be submitted to Parliament at various times in the future. In fact, it is impossible to do so: adopt an widely criticised law, because the improvements are coming. The Secretary of State rushed his Rocinante to Utrecht and Hilversum, in which the breed is unclear considering the many times that was hit on the same stone. On his attempts to form a majority in the Senate, we have a first important question. The First Chamber has no right of amendment. Is it correct that the State Secretary has visited certain parties to ask what he had to promise to get his law passed? Is it true that there have even been complete texts of motions to which he has responded? What is the State Secretary's view on this matter? I note the following about the appointments. The Secretary of State always suggests that they have been made completely independent in accordance with a nomination made to him. But it is quite clear that in the appointment of a President of the NTR, the Secretary of State interfered with the list of candidates at an early stage and made clear which candidates would not be acceptable to him. As the Secretary of State put it here in this Chamber, I told them to do their homework again. And behold, the miraculous thing happened: to the surprise of the secretary of state there was a presentation from a VVD alderman from Amsterdam and he did not hesitate for a moment whether he would deviate from this speech. When the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NPO was appointed, the Secretary of State also complied with the nomination made. What he must have looked up when it turned out that there was once again a VVD party colleague and former alderman, and even more that it was an old acquaintance, namely the alderman in The Hague when he himself was VVD party chairman! At home he must have said: what happened to me today with the appointment advisory committee; they might think that I had interfered with it. Yeah, there could be surprises like that. It is not true that one should be a member of the "Friends Van Dekker," abbreviated VVD, to be appointed in Hilversum. No, an independent committee came up with this proposal on its own initiative. The Secretary of State undertakes to continue to make appointments according to the nomination of the independent advisory committee. But if such a committee, consisting of three members, consists of two relatively unknown Dutch and the third is a heavyweight VVDer, namely a former vice-president of the Dutch Parliamentary Group, former VVD campaign leader and currently commissioner of the King in Gelderland, then some do not see that as a reasonably balanced committee. The question is how we can get that guarantee in the future. The 50PLUS Group discusses the appointment of the NPO for two main reasons. As the then-in-office Supervisory Board wrote, this appointment was unwise and contrary to the profile. This profile was described as follows: interest and feeling for the dynamics of national politics without being politically active. The President appointed by the Secretary of State was indeed politically active at the time he was appointed. The fact that he then ceased his political activities does not change that. This is a very damaging appointment for the public service broadcasters. The appointed Mr Bruins was a member of the committee that made the VVD programme for the Lower House elections at the time of his appointment. And we know what that means when we look at the current VVD election programme, to which the Secretary of State has also contributed. The programme states that broadcasters should be given a smaller role and that up to two public television networks are needed. And it is precisely people who support a smaller role for broadcasters who are appointed to supervisory boards that can exercise controversial influence on broadcasters in advance if this change of law is adopted. Moreover, according to many, the appointment is contrary to the Media Act; I will not repeat the arguments for this. Almost all parties pointed this out in the first place, but the Secretary of State remains deaf in East India. In the meantime, the tragedy in the media country is great because of the Secretary of State and there is no question of the calm that the NPO asked for in particular. The letter of commitment from the State Secretary of 12 February shows the following. The role of the Minister in the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the Management Board is removed in a forthcoming legislative proposal. The aim is to submit a legislative proposal to the Lower House before the summer to delete the minister's right of consent from the boards of the NPO and the RPO. There will be a serious review of the procedures for appointments across the public media sector, which could lead to legislative changes. There will also be an exploration of the independence and composition of the appointment advisory committee. The changes that follow from the exploration will be included in a legislative proposal as soon as possible. There's gonna be a bill on regional broadcasting. Among other things, the PvdA stated in the first term that the mandatory provision of contract information by NPO and broadcasters requires separate legislation. The Secretary of State remains obstinate and comes no further than to say that he will look at it again. The controversial point of ex ante surveillance has not been removed. The NPO may establish binding substantive frameworks, see also the explanatory memorandum. The State Secretary is insensitive to Article 7, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Article 10 ECHR, despite the opinions of the Council of State and the law firm Stibbe. This is unacceptable for 50PLUS. The great lack of clarity about genre coordinators has persisted completely. The question why entertainment should not be allowed and André van Duin and Heel Holland Bakt must be hunted to commercial broadcasting has not been answered Numerous and strongly requested commitments are not made, such as on the independence of Omrop Fryslân and the non-prohibiting of confidentiality clauses. The next speaker has asked for a number of tough guarantees, but most of them have not been given. We're curious about her reaction. Conclusion: What are the commitments worth if the cabinet falls prematurely? The Secretary of State has submitted a flawed bill; there can be no doubt about that. It is already clear that many major changes or additions are needed. The Secretary of State has had enough time in recent years to come up with proper legislation. Instead, he did not create peace, but a divided broadcasting world in which NPO and broadcasters stand against each other. In the opinion of the 50PLUS Group, the First Chamber should not allow such a law to be passed, even if there were sufficient commitments. The election year has entered, a cabinet can go home prematurely and what should then be done with the supplementary legislation will probably be in the hands of a completely different coalition. I say with great emphasis to those who have great objections to this bill, but consider being spawned by promises, that there may be a situation in which the commitments are worth nothing at all. We can't let that happen. Let the Secretary of State go quickly with a proper and sound new bill to the House of Representatives. That's the advice we're happy to give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u10	Chairman! My group would like to congratulate Mr Krikke as the last maiden from our Chamber on her speech. Because of the long suspension of the debate on the Media Act, I was not able to do so in plenary before. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions, both in the first term and in the letter of 12 February. In line with the subject we are debating today, the Media Act reminds me of the TV game "Who of the Three." For those who do not know it, attention was paid to three persons who claimed to have the same profession. The point was that the panel guessed who the real person in question was. The panel did so by asking "smart" questions about the candidate's appeal. If I follow the treatment of the Media Act, I sometimes wonder what the real Media Act is. Is that the vote in the Lower House, the vote in this Chamber or the vote in the most recent letter from the Secretary of State? The game led by Herman Emmink was amusing.I dare say that it wasn't flat entertainment, but the Media Act isn't a game. I want the Secretary of State to be absolutely clear today so that I do not have to ask any ambiguous jokes about whether the real Media Act wants to stand up. For that, the public media are far too dear to me. After all, an independent and pluralist public media service is a crucial part of our democratic system. That is why I would like to go through the subjects that I have addressed in order of priority. The first is the need for transparency. We welcome the commitment to derogate from standard reporting at genre level only in the case of questions from a Member of Parliament, and to ensure that confidentiality clauses are not prohibited. We have explained that Article 68 of the Constitution does not in itself provide a basis for requiring NPO and private broadcasters to provide information. Moreover, Articles 2.15 and 2.178 of the Media Act do not provide a basis for this. The first concerns the work of the NPO and the second is sound information. We asked the Secretary of State to respect the firm commitment to this reading of the Constitution and the Media Act. In this respect, we would like to thank you for your commitment that the reasoning and the framework for the transparency agreements will be submitted to our Chamber. Can we read this as material in line with the withdrawn amendment tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Heerma? This concerns the proposal to amend Article 2.172, third paragraph, so as to regulate the understanding of the costs of programming at AMvB. The PvdA attaches great importance to this, because otherwise there seems to be a back door to the Minister without the Chamber asking for it. Perhaps even more in line with the commitment to delete this amendment altogether in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u11	In the letter from the Secretary of State, I read that he will review it again legally. You can't call that a real hard commitment, like you asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u12	It says that the reasoning and the framework for the agreements on transparency will be submitted to our Chamber. I think that is a firm commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u13	On page 3, when it comes to transparency about costs, it says that this will be reviewed legally, but you said that a firm commitment had to be made. If it's reviewed legally, you don't have a firm commitment, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u14	The commitment consists of two parts. The first part is that the reasoning and the framework for the agreements on transparency are submitted to our Chamber. The second part is that the underlying reasoning is again examined legally. However, I had not yet received my questions on that part of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u15	Then, after the game "Who of the Three" you will also discuss the programme Morning gymnastics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u16	Perhaps it is more in line with the commitment to delete this amendment altogether in the proposal. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he will anchor these commitments in the Media Act. In addition, the Secretary of State states that the underlying reasoning should be reviewed again. We would ask him to involve independent legal experts in this. Is he willing to admit this? It doesn't take morning gymnastics. Moreover, we do not fully read the requested commitment in the letter of 12 February last, which is in line with Article 2.178 of the Media Act. This article is not explicitly about accountability. Article 2.178 deals with the establishment of business processes and the conduct of a sound administration from which, inter alia, the Minister can obtain the necessary information for the performance of his duties. Accountability to the Court can therefore not be deduced from this Article. Please confirm from the State Secretary that he shares this reading of article 2.178 Media Act. The next point concerns the task of public service broadcasting and the role played by entertainment. We asked the Secretary of State not to give up the promise of impossible burden of proof with regard to entertainment. We have the following in mind. The NPO has an effort obligation to ensure that within reasonable limits in terms of time, money and human resources.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My group therefore believes that the provisions contained in the present legislative proposal and the wording in the explanatory memorandum have been complied with. That is why we asked the Secretary of State's firm commitment to respect this interpretation of the burden of proof. We have noted from the State Secretary's mouth that he has nothing to add to this. And we read a confirmation of this in his letter of 12 February, for which we thank you. The following point concerns the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters. There we asked the State Secretary to implement the Segers/Heerma motion adopted in part No. 30 on a leading role of the NPO and broadcasters vis-à-vis the outside producer. There, too, we were allowed to record a full "yes" from the State Secretary's mouth. We also asked the Secretary of State to acknowledge that editorial form and content are and remain the responsibility of broadcasters, as laid down in Article 2.88 Media Act. We also asked for attention to be paid to good internal checks and balances with clear appeals. Here we believe with the State Secretary that the agreed working methods of the NPO and the College of Broadcasting, as described in the joint letter of 30 September 2015, should be the starting point. On this point, we are very pleased with the letter from the NPO and a majority of the broadcasters of 28 February. In that letter they clearly explain how they see the procedure with each other with regard to the so-called opening-up of the system, the role of broadcasters and all this in relation to Article 2.88, first paragraph Media Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u17	When we talk about a majority in the First Chamber, do we count the number of parties that are in favour of something or the number of members?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u18	Then we count the number of Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mrs Sent spoke of a majority of broadcasters. That's the same thing. In view of the number of broadcasters, there is a majority against. This is a distorted picture and I believe that Mrs Sent should not use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u20	I welcome the strong support of the broadcasters as laid down in the letter of 28 February last. I ask the Secretary of State if he shares and embraces the method set out in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u21	AVROTROS, KRO-NCRV, MAX and PowNed do not support that letter. They have distanced themselves from this, because they believe that there are many questions left. These relate to the steering character, but also to the question of how the NPO will assess cases afterwards. Did Mrs. Sent read anything about that in the letter? Has she read anything about consequences if something is tested afterwards and the NPO concludes that the broadcasters have done something that he does not think can be done? Did she read that? Has she read anything about appeals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u22	I'll talk to you about that later. However, I believe that the letter describes a good practice in which broadcasters and the NPO can find each other. I would point out that in the letter of 30 September, a majority of broadcasters signed, namely the College of Broadcasts, together with the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u23	That's not an answer to the question. I said that AVROTROS, KRO-NCRV, MAX and PowNed weren't behind that. I say with Mr Nagel that they represent a substantial part of the Dutch broadcasting industry. Doesn't that count for Mrs. Sent? Where has it read what remedies the broadcasters have or whether there is no control?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u24	I referred to an earlier point made by Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u25	I would like to help by referring to the reactions of the broadcasters. They say they can't get out of their way with this. Only a small part of a small number of aspects have been identified. I have set an example in my contribution that the NPO undertakes not to interfere in the appointment of presenters or guests. That's all profit, but there's a lot more to it. Where has Mrs Sent read that this "more" is well secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u26	As far as I am concerned, it is not just the existing broadcasters in Hilversum that are going to be involved, but that this proposal is intended to create more space for outside producers. I understand that this leads to unrest. In my opinion, the letter of 30 September provided clarity and made the letter of 28 February even clearer. I will come back to the proposal for a programme statute in order to give even more clarity. Internal checks and balances are of course already in Hilversum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u27	I am concerned that these agreements are being dealt with outside the law. Only part of the broadcasters, large in number but small in number of members, have been behind this. How hard are these appointments actually? When the NPO says next week, this isn't gonna work, we're back to square one. If there is so much support in the field, would it not be better to ask the Secretary of State to arrange this in a novelle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u28	I asked the Secretary of State if he shares and embraces the working methods set out in the letter. I will then leave it to him how he will legally anchor it, as far as is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u29	That answer could be given to the Secretary of State, but I would like to hear from Mrs Sent whether she believes that these agreements should be laid down in a novellle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u30	I think it would be wise for this to be anchored. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if there's going to be a novelle or if there's going to be a different method of working. We also asked the Secretary of State to ask the NPO to draw up the ideas of the Culture Council on a programme statute and a programme advisory council with the consultation and agreement of the broadcasters. Mr Atsma also raised this point. In doing so, we stress that creators and editors can be well informed about the background to the programmatic choices of the NPO. A programme statute clarifies the process of decision-making on programming and the possibilities for creators and editors to understand decisions on the placement of individual programmes. In his letter of 12 February last, the Secretary of State undertakes to ask the NPO to develop this idea. I would ask the Secretary of State to share with our Chamber a copy of this effect. In his letter we do not read anything about a programme advisory board or about the consultation and approval of the broadcasters. I would ask him to respond to these suggestions in the second term. My next point concerns the desirability of transparency and independence of appointments in the public media. We look forward to the promised serious exploration, in which we have called attention to the domain expertise in the exploration. We have identified a number of specific weaknesses. We welcome the commitment, confirmed in the recent letter, that the role of the Minister in the appointment, suspension and dismissal of the members of the Governing Board of the NPO will be removed in the next legislative proposal from the Media Act 2008. And we are pleased that the points of interest raised by my group are being included in the exploration, namely the independence and composition of the appointment advisory committee and the possibility of making the opinion of that committee binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u31	In any case, let me make it clear that this is not a gift to the Upper House, but that this is an effect of a motion from the Lower House on which on 13 October last. has been voted on and adopted. It is now March 1, 2016. The Secretary of State could have arranged this in the time that has passed. How does Mrs Sent assess the fact that the Secretary of State did not get to work on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u32	The motion only asked the Secretary of State to investigate this. Now the Secretary of State has promised to carry it through as requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u33	But feeling in the Lower House was very clear and also feeling in the Upper Chamber was very clear. It is not so much a question of how to deal with it at what time, but rather of the idea that it is undesirable that politics has so much influence on broadcasting. I think the Secretary of State is quite a clever man. I read the other day that Mr Rutte agrees. Surely the Secretary of State could have thought of this before? How does Mrs Sent feel about the fact that the Secretary of State is thinking so late that it is not so convenient that politics has so much influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u34	Politics affects not only NPO, but a series of appointments in the public media. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has agreed to carry out a serious reconnaissance on that point. The alternatives are not always obvious. Co-option has its drawbacks. You can study other structures. This calls for a serious reconnaissance. Once again, the motion in the House of Representatives asked only for an investigation into the possibility to appoint the directors independently and not to introduce it with immediate effect. I don't see any delays on the part of the Secretary of State. Rather, I see an acceleration of ideas in this area after we have debated it in the First Chamber. What we lack in the commitment is to explicitly involve our request for domain expertise, for example in the form of an expert committee. And what we would like to hear from the Secretary of State is how he can ensure that there will be schedules of resignation in which not all supervisors resign at the same time. Finally, under Article 2.6 (1) of the Media Act, we can only question the compatibility of membership of the NPO Supervisory Board with the Presidency of the UWV Management Board. According to paragraph (f), membership of the Supervisory Board is incompatible with an employment in an institution falling under the responsibility of the Minister. The concept of "falling under the responsibility of" is used in different meanings in legislation. The Secretary of State refers to Article 1 (2) of the Incompatibility and State-General Act and considers it to mean hierarchical subjugation. There is no such thing with a ZBO like the UWV. However, Article 3 (1) of the Public Administration Act refers to considered but not all influence. That's what a ZBO like the UWV is all about. Moreover, paragraph (g) of the abovementioned article of the Media Act explicitly states that membership of the Supervisory Board is incompatible with "having financial or other interests in companies or institutions and performing ancillary functions which may jeopardise the proper performance of the function or the maintenance of the independence of the member concerned or the confidence in them." Given the special position of the Supervisory Board of the NPO, we ask the Secretary of State if he believes that the chairman of that Supervisory Board can perform its supervisory function independently and with authority. We would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how he thinks he can avoid the ambiguity in the interpretation of the Media Act on this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u35	Those are two questions to the Secretary of State, but for that the honourable Member has set out very clearly what she considers to be the interpretation of the law. I am very curious to know what its final conclusion is about the compatibility or incompatibility of both functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u36	It's not clear, that's the problem. The Media Act states that this is incompatible with an employment relationship with an institution falling under the responsibility of the Minister. The big question is: how do you interpret "the minister's responsibility"? If you refer to the Act Incompatibility and State-General then "falling under the responsibility of the minister" means hierarchical subjugation. That is not the case with the UWV, so the functions of the Supervisory Board NPO and the Supervisory Board UWV would be compatible. If you look at Article 3 (1) of the Public Administration Act, there is no reference to hierarchical subjugation and then there is incompatibility of membership of the Supervisory Board NPO and the Board of Directors UWV. There is uncertainty because the concept of "falling under the responsibility of" has not been explained in the Media Act. For that, you have to go to other legal histories, and they're not clear about that. In particular, I asked the Secretary of State to avoid any confusion about this interpretation in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u37	In other words, it's unclear, so leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u38	It could be called into question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u39	You did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u40	I did, and then I ask the Secretary of State what conclusions he makes, since he is the one who appoints and not me. I also ask him if he believes that this way the supervisor can still operate with authority and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u41	What is your own conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u42	I haven't figured that out yet. I would like to be convinced by the Secretary of State that there is no ambiguity I think there is or that it is at least removed in the Media Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u43	Don't even think about it after four weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u44	I've asked four professors to do this, and all they do is disagree on how to interpret this. They do not say that it is clearly incompatible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u45	I'd like to go back to what Mrs. Sent said at the beginning. There are two kinds of responsibility. In the first, the Commission considers that there is no hierarchical relationship. I think she means that there is some sort of employers' relationship. I read on the government website that Zbos are independent, but that the minister does have control over it. The Minister is responsible for the policy and supervision of a Zbo. The Minister must also be able to answer for a Zbo in the First and Second Chambers. He is obliged to appoint, suspend or dismiss a Zbo director. It seems to me to be a hierarchical relationship. How does Mrs. Sent feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u46	If you look at Article 1 (2) of the Incompatibility and State-General Act, then no hierarchical subordinateness is meant to be held accountable to. It's not as crisp-and-ready as Mrs. Gerkens is trying to suggest in her quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u47	The compatibility with the States-General is explicitly mentioned in the law and also in the statutes. This has been designated separately in the statutes and in the law. There is, however, a hierarchical relationship here. Then how do you judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u48	Then I'll get back to my previous answer. The concept of "falling under the responsibility of" can be interpreted in several ways. In the Act Incompatibility and State-General it is interpreted as hierarchical subjugation and not in the Public Administration Act. The latter would indicate that there is an incompatibility. The Act Incompatibilitys States General indicates compatibility. The legal history in this area is unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u50	I still haven't gotten an answer. There is, after all, a hierarchical responsibility. This gentleman could be fired by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u51	I'm falling into repetitions. It's just how you interpret accountability. You can interpret that hierarchically or not. It depends on which legal history you use whether to read this or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u52	Eventually, the judge will decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u53	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. No morning gymnastics, we're ready for the real trapeze work now. Mrs. Sent says it's unclear or something. Does she know what she said in this Chamber four weeks ago? I would like to know from the Secretary of State what consequences he has for the fact that the appointment is contrary to the Media Act? She said "compromising with the Media Act" today, Mrs Sent says something quite different. That's trapeze work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u55	This is not a trapeze work, but that is the result of some more experts who have independently looked at the legal history. They indicate that there can be several interpretations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u56	However, we can assume that it had been properly checked when Mrs Sent, who always does a good job here, in her speech, concluded with facts that it was in breach of the Media Act. Now I think she's making a turn to pave the way for a vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u57	It is precisely because the lawyers differed in this respect that I felt that I should consult some more professors on this matter. They come with an explanation of what the dispute is about. The dispute is about what legal history you quote when you talk about being accountable to or under the responsibility of the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u58	I am curious to see which of the three: Mrs Sent in the first instance, Mrs Sent today and later in the vote. I wonder which of the three it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u59	I have done careful research, and therefore I have found out what the disagreement is about, why one thinks it is compatible and the other doesn't. I hope that we will take advantage of that, so that this ambiguity will not exist in the future. As far as regional broadcasting is concerned, we have indicated that we do not feel it would be desirable if the cuts were to be made at the expense of the quality and content of the media. We have asked for the Secretary of State's commitment to ensure the preservation of high-quality and independent journalism in the region. According to the Secretary of State, there is a plan which makes it unlikely that the austerity will be at the expense of the quality and content of the regional media supply. It also considers this to be a responsibility of the regional broadcasters. But what if the financial resources prove insufficient to take that responsibility? What if the plan is not sufficiently substantiated? We are not reassured and need more from the Secretary of State to be convinced. To this end, I would like to put a number of questions to him. How programmatic and editorially independent can a regional broadcaster still be with an administrative superstructure determined nationwide? What political scope does a regional broadcaster have to give substance to its own identity if the region is deprived of control over "the kids (m/v) and the stuff"? For the regions it is important to have a strong and vital broadcasting system. It is very doubtful whether, taking into account the above, the Media Policy Commission promised by the Secretary of State for the current journalism coverage is not an artificial toothless construct against a powerful national management. In short, we are not yet reassured and ask the Secretary of State once again for a commitment that he will ensure the preservation of good and independent journalism in the region. We also asked for special attention to be paid to the special position of Omrop Fryslân and asked the Secretary of State to work to maintain the existing objective of Omrop Fryslân. In the letter dated 12 February last. The Secretary of State undertakes to update the administrative agreement with the province of Friesland in order to ensure the programming of the Frisian language and culture area both in terms of content and finance. That is too vague for my group. We already wish to see the outcome of the administrative agreement with the province of Friesland, which the Secretary of State wishes and expects. More specifically, we expect him to make a commitment to maintain programming for the Frisian language and culture area. We would like to support the motion that Mr Ten Hoeve of the OSF will table on this point in his term. I conclude with a quote from the joint letter from the NPO and the College of Broadcasts of 30 September 2015 to our colleagues across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u60	Finally, on regional broadcasting and Omrop Fryslân. There's no administrative agreement yet. Is that an absolute condition for you in view of the final vote next week on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u61	It is a bit clumsy to talk about a motion that has not yet been tabled, but I have already been allowed to read it secretly. That motion gives me sufficient comfort, if it can get broad support in the First Chamber, that there is sufficient attention to maintaining programming for the Frisian language and culture area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u62	That's not what I'm asking. A motion is basically solidified emotion. There's nothing wrong with that, but that's all it is. It's not an administrative agreement. If there is no administrative agreement between the Secretary of State on one side and the province of Fryslân on the other, I wonder if that is a problem for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u63	I'm not a party to the board agreement. I don't like being held hostage by parties in the board agreement either. I think it is particularly important, because we are having a debate with the Secretary of State today, that we should give him what the commitment should be to ensure that the offer in the Frisian language and culture area will be well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u64	Finally, the following. With regard to the penultimate paragraph on regional broadcasters in general, Mrs Sent made strong comments on editorial independence. She said that broadcasters should be able to do what they have done and want to continue to do. The broadcasters, works councils and editorial boards all see a one-to-one connection with the austerity measures imposed. Does Mrs Sent actually ask the Secretary of State to ensure that if there are problems with fulfilling the mission, there is more money on the table for regional broadcasters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u65	I can't put it any different than I already have. I asked for the Secretary of State's commitment to ensure the preservation of high-quality and independent journalism in the region. That seems to me to be a pretty strong commitment. I'm very interested in what the Secretary of State will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u66	Finally, Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u67	So that could mean more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'll leave that in the middle. Mr. Chairman. Then the quote from the letter of 30 September 2015: "We are setting an ambitious course by responding in close cooperation to new media behaviour, globalisation and digitalisation. With eyes and ears for our audience, our partners and social environment." This should facilitate politics in our view, not with a television game but with clarity. To this end, we asked the Secretary of State a number of pressing questions in the second term. We await his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u69	Just a quick question. I go back to the appointment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board and the possible conflict. Mrs Sent has said several times that she has consulted several professors. I googled it myself first, but I can't find it. Which professors did she consult? Where can we find their explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u70	The explanation I have received from several professors can be found in my contribution in plenary. I do not need to mention all kinds of names of people who inform me about the interpretation of legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u71	That sounds pretty vague. Apparently, no source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u72	There is. Whether there are sources or not, I think my input clearly puts the finger on the sore spot. The nasty place is the question of how to interpret "accounting to." There is uncertainty about this, depending on which legal history you check.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. This is a bill with a lot of hooks and eyes, so much is clear. To look again at the problems and try, here and there, to determine what is now resolved and what remains to be solved, seems to be the main function of this second term. I'm doing the same thing. The appointments. Probably they're more or less okay, but at least it's gone very clumsy. Apart from the formal aspects, this should not be possible. Governance. Not yet ready; but the best intentions in the short term to deal with them practically, including the best intentions for a final settlement to be made later this year, but there is still no clarity on this. I have to say, I don't think that's easy either. Having the NPO's Board of Governors appointed by the Supervisory Board without the Minister's consent is a clear and acceptable matter, but the appointment of the Supervisory Boards at the various bodies, especially at the NPO and RPO, is not so easy. Co-optation does not seem to me to be the solution. It should nevertheless be sought in a regulation which takes account, on the one hand, of the independence of the supervisors but, on the other hand, of the system responsibility, as the Secretary of State himself so finely writes, of the government and, on the other hand, of the importance of the other authorities. All that is not yet simple, I think. So the question is, what does the Secretary of State ultimately come up with? The control by the NPO is another point. In my view, it has not yet been fully covered that Article 288 of the Media Act on the independence of broadcasters and the prohibition of prior surveillance remains in full force. For this purpose, a clearer legal regime would be useful, for example, as proposed by the AVRO, in addition to the agreements contained in a letter to us by the NPO and some but certainly not the majority of broadcasters. In my opinion, enough has been said about the admissibility of entertainment. I agree with the wording used. I'm coming to the regional broadcasters. Practically speaking, it is most important at the moment that the delay that is taking place should be able to translate into a postponement of the cuts. The last letter from ROOS that we received is estimated to be EUR 8.5 to 12 million to be covered, of course, by the Secretary of State. In addition, in a number of peripheral provinces, non-Randstadprovincies, there is a feeling that the operation could lead to very strong centralisation. There is, however, a danger to the future of regional broadcasters in general. Perhaps the solution to this may be found partly in Mr Atsma's proposal to grant regional broadcasters their own broadcasting licence. This will benefit the degree of autonomy that can be exercised in the region. The danger of this centralization is clearly not felt equally by everyone. In any case, the Randstad organisations do not feel that way. They seem to see more efficiency in centralization and less the sense of lack of identity. Looking at the position of local broadcasters in the near future, it may not be wrong to make a somewhat less rigid separation between regional and large-scale local. Mr Schnabel mentioned Amsterdam's AT5 last time. The distribution of regional broadcasters is ultimately about the commitment felt in the region and in it sometimes, not always, the sense of regional identity. A problem for regional broadcasters remains the point that Mrs Sent has just dealt with in detail. The cuts seem to mean that the consequences of the cuts will not only be purely practical but will also be felt too heavy in terms of content. This means that these cuts may be too ambitious in the long term. I think that we should keep an eye on this and that the Secretary of State explicitly holds responsibility for it. Finally, we come to Friesland, a province with a separate position, for which a separate arrangement must also be made. The question is how this should be done if, on the one hand, we want to leave sufficient autonomy with the Frisian broadcaster and give the province the opportunity to take its share of responsibility and, on the other hand, we want to allow Omrop Fryslân to take part in the opportunities for efficiency bundled in the RPO that can be useful in itself. In order to take a path which we feel can be followed, I shall table a motion for a resolution. Suppose the law gets passed and the RPO gets there. Then the network will be part of the RPO. The motion calls for the establishment of a body as a media council which, although not a supervisory board can be called in the new situation, can largely continue the task of the supervisory board. If this motion is adopted by a majority, it will be a profit for Friesland. Moreover, the province and the State Secretary remain responsible for the administrative agreement, the final wording and the resulting arrangements. The President shall: Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Bikker, Mr Sent, Mr Schalk and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the special position of the Frisian as a second state language and the related national and international obligations, it is important that adequate provision be made by the government for a high-quality programme offer in the Frisian language;]] [[Whereas Omrop Fryslân has a special task and position with regard to the conservation, promotion, development, transfer and living use of the Frisian as second state language;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to ensure the above-mentioned positions and interests in the whole of the RPO for now and in the future;]] [[Calls on the Government, to this end, to establish a media council for Fryslân bringing together independent knowledge and expertise, providing an additional guarantee for the province of Fryslân to ensure the importance of the Frisian language, culture and identity and, in consequence, the position of Omrop Fryslân within the whole of the RPO;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide the Media Council with tasks and powers directly related to the above positions and interests, including a right of assent in the appointment of Omrop Fryslân's editor-in-chief and in the adoption of the broadcasting annual plans and a heavy advisory on the provision of funds to Omrop Fryslân for full and versatile Frisian programming on radio, television and internet;]] [[calls on the Government to give this Media Council an advisory right for the appointment of the director of the RPO who has the subject of Frisian language, culture and identity in his portfolio;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the budget of Omrop Fryslân at the same level of programmed activity after the cuts have been processed;]] [[Finally, on the basis of the above, in consultation with the RPO, Omrop Fryslân and the Province of Fryslân, invite the Government to come to an arrangement and to record this in the Frisian language and culture meeting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u74	Madam President, may I put a question to Mr Ten Hoeve?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u75	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u76	In my term I have already referred to this motion, so there is certainly sympathy, but I would like to clarify the position of the Media Council in relation to the financial resources. I'm tasting a little bit that the media council might be sending in with regard to making funds available. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u77	That element is indeed included in the motion, so that the Media Council can give a serious opinion on the distribution of resources. In addition, the funds that are currently being provided, apart from the cuts that are still being made, are guaranteed in this motion. A further element is that the Media Council is given the right to decide on the annual plans of the broadcasting organisation what does it mean for Friesland? (b) to give its assent. This will probably also have an impact on the use and availability of funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u78	The question is, of course, what means are we talking about? Are we talking about the resources from the broad pot for all regional broadcasters? That is the only way, I think, to raise additional money for this purpose. I believe that this leads to a discussion with many other broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u79	Yes, but the situation that money has to be distributed from the central pot to the regional broadcasters has always existed, apart from the extra resources for Omrop Fryslân from the state resources outside the regional broadcasters. Moreover, it does not seem to me impossible for the provinces, especially the province of Friesland, to make additional resources available from its responsibility. Its use will then also come under the supervision of this Media Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u80	Madam President. Although it is already a month ago, I would like to congratulate Mrs Krikke on her maiden speech. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his previous reply and commitments. I understand from the media that in the recess the Secretary of State continued to answer questions orally and make commitments to only a few parties in this house. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he has made his selection for the invitation policy in this interim period? The Secretary of State began his first term with a true declaration of love to the public service. I fear that many national and regional public broadcasters have experienced the new Media Act as a strangling embrace of a political layer of government that you would rather not be too close to you. The fact that the Secretary of State's love has a rather cold business side is clear from the answer to my question as to what would happen if the law were not allowed to make it into this house and the RPO could not enter into force. In his letter, the State Secretary writes to the regional broadcasters to meet what is reasonably possible for additional friction costs resulting from a few months' delay. However, regional broadcasters, which often have little reserves, should not suffer from an incomplete law. The first deadline showed that if this law does not work, no safety net has been set up for regional broadcasters. And that's why I'd like to file the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nagel, Mr Gerkens and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the cabinet has not sufficiently anticipated the consequences of possible rejection of the Media Act;]] [[Whereas if the Media Act does not enter into force, the RPO will not proceed;]] [[Whereas many small regional broadcasters do not have sufficient reserves to absorb the consequences of the failure of the RPO in conjunction with budgeted cuts;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to ensure that regional broadcasters do not suffer if the RPO does not proceed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr. Chairman. I have a second point. Among other things, agreement was reached between the NPO and some broadcasters on how external parties can submit programme proposals to the NPO. My group is not convinced that this will prevent the autonomy of broadcasters from being further undermined. What is and is not part of the substantive framework that the NPO is given as discretion is not anchored by law but is merely laid down in a few agreements in a letter. A large part of the broadcasters are very concerned about this. Furthermore, the legislative proposal still allows for the possibility for the NPO to be too close to the substantive autonomy of broadcasters and their independent editors in the process of placing programmes on offer channels. Several groups have just spoken about the autonomy of broadcasters. My group believes that if we are to be able to act autonomously vis-à-vis the NPO, the NPO should not be examined in advance, but afterwards. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The agreements with some broadcasters include that choices for presenters, guests, subjects or specific parts of the form and content of the programmes or other media offerings are not part of the substantive framework. The Animal Party wants, among other things, this agreement to be enshrined in the law, which also makes it clear that the influence of network and genre coordinators will not further undermine the autonomy of broadcasters. Finally, without a clear anchoring of the autonomous role of broadcasters in this legislative proposal, it is irresponsible for my group to approve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Through you, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter, which my group has noted with interest. The VVD Group believes that the peace in the order for this recognition period 2016-2020 is a good goal and shares this with the Secretary of State. And you just have to watch the hecticness of this debate, inside and outside this room, or you can see that rest in the order would be really good for everyone. An important point in the proposals is governance, i.e. the method of appointment of the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of the NPO. In my previous contribution, I pointed out that the VVD attaches great importance to the fact that the possibility of political interference in appointments is kept to a minimum. The Secretary of State takes an important first step in his letter by allowing the members of the Management Board to be appointed directly by the Supervisory Board. The possible ministerial interference has therefore been reduced to zero in this respect, and my group appreciates that. My group also appreciates the Secretary of State's proposal to create a schedule of resignations for the Supervisory Board, so that a new supervisory board does not suddenly have to be set up. Furthermore, the Secretary of State undertakes a serious review of the procedure for appointments throughout the public media sector. That last commitment doesn't go far enough for the VVD. Of course, we welcome a serious review of the procedure for appointments throughout the public media sector, but today, in particular, the appointment of the Supervisory Board and the Governing Board of the NPO is ahead of us. The VVD proposes to the Secretary of State to take further steps for the appointment of the Supervisory Board in line with the steps he takes to appoint the Management Board. This could be done, for example, by setting up an independent appointment committee for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board, drawing up profiles, setting up a transparent application procedure and ultimately making a binding nomination for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board to the Secretary of State, who can only deviate from it on a reasoned basis. All this is intended to achieve a transparent procedure which minimises the possibility of political interference in the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take further steps in the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the NPO and to come forward with proposals for this? Then there is the access of external parties to the order, which is regulated in Article 2.88. In my previous contribution, I asked further questions on this matter to the Secretary of State, because this is a crucial part of the Media Act. My group is therefore very pleased that a letter was sent on 28 February by the board of directors of the NPO and a majority of broadcasters. It describes how external parties can turn to the NPO and how the editorial final responsibility of the co-producing broadcasters can be secured. It is very nice that this very concrete and precise way of working is now on paper and is insightful for everyone. For example, the legal framework has already been developed, so that both broadcasters and the NPO, and with that we all, have clarity. And that's a big good. Then the RPO. It is nice that the Secretary of State states in his letter that any additional friction costs incurred by regional broadcasters due to the later entry into force of the law will be covered by the Ministry of Education and Science. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the law must now enter into force in order for the RPO to start. For regional broadcasters, it is crucial that the RPO takes over everything that supports services, after the adoption of the law, from the regional broadcasters, so that they can focus entirely on making good programmes for the region. An early legal basis for the RPO is very important for this. Mr President, we look forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u83	Madam President. We usually thank the Secretary of State for the first-term replies. Of course I do, but first I would like to compliment the Chamber. The way in which the debate was interrupted a few weeks ago so that both the Secretary of State and the senators could reflect, I find an example of respectful handling each other in a difficult process. This will create space to manage legislation. I think that's a nice way to do it. Then, of course, what happened in the meantime is important. I would like to focus on three points. 1. Good governance. 2. The role and position of the NPO versus the broadcasting organizations with special attention to life belief. and 3. The perseverance of the WatchView on advertising on all platforms, i.e. radio, television and internet. I'll start with good governance. That means very simple: good governance. The answer given by the Secretary of State shows that he is convinced that he has acted purely so far, for example in the various appointments which have been discussed in detail in the first period. But now that there are so many questions about this issue, it is wise to look again at that governance structure. The commitments set out in the letter of 12 February last show that the Secretary of State wants to create a clear governance structure. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is looking forward to working on it. The second thorny point is the position of the NPO versus the broadcasting organizations. There's just tension. Paradoxically, everyone wants this law to be passed to create some peace in the field of public media. However, now that the coordinating role of the NPO is being turned into a strong driving role in programming, that unrest could strike again. I understand that the Secretary of State is looking for a mix of traditional broadcasting associations and new providers. However, if the NPO already pre-positions a large part of the budget towards new providers, there will be no rest area in which the new way of public broadcasting can embed itself in society. Especially if the NPO is looking for external producers, this goes far beyond programmatic control. It is precisely then that the content will be strongly determined by the NPO and I find that undesirable. That is why I ask the Secretary of State how he can better frame the role of the NPO vis-à-vis broadcasters. Will he reply to that question in accordance with the letter from the NPO and the broadcasting organizations sent on 28 February? That was on Sundays, and that was not really necessary for my group. The aspect of the belief remains important. It is precisely this aspect that formed the basis of the creation and existence of broadcasting organisations. This aspect of belief in life was the reason for many citizens to join specific broadcasters. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State very specifically how he can promote the belief that life remains a spearhead in the performance agreement and that there are good guarantees that it will be possible for public service broadcasting to be able to express its belief in life. Finally, the Secretary of State's commitment to apply the WatchView to advertising on all platforms, i.e. on radio, television and the Internet. In the debate in the first term, the Secretary of State promised that he would investigate this, even more so, that he would make an effort to do so. In his letter of 12 February, he even wrote that he would promote the use of the watchpoint's criteria for the protection of young people, including advertising. That is a clear commitment. A first step would be for the Star to join the NICAM. Does the Secretary of State have any indication that the Star will do the same? A few weeks have passed now and this could already be the case. I realise, moreover, that this issue is on the verge of this debate. There's two sides to that. I would like to thank my colleagues for their patience on this point. In addition, I would appreciate it if the Secretary of State would keep the commitment on this point, even if the present law were not adopted. After all, these are substantive and moral considerations that go beyond the design of public service broadcasting. For the moment, the question remains as to when the Secretary of State will be able to inform the Chamber of the way in which the Watching Point is applied to advertising on radio, television and the Internet. Like last time, I look forward to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. Three points were highlighted by the Christian Union Group in the first term in the assessment of this bill. First of all, the strong position of broadcasting organisations as member organisations, and also a modest role for the NPO and finally the scope for philosophical input. In addition, my group was concerned about the appointment policy. I thank the Secretary of State for his letter with commitments from the first term; he has indicated his willingness to amend the law. My group appreciates that, but it wants to know exactly what this is all about. That is what this debate is for. Moreover, all movements have implications for the legislative process. The adoption and entry into force of the current legislative proposal and then waiting for the additions, my group does not take it for granted. I understand that waiting for the RPO in particular leads to a complicated situation. That is why I would like to hear how the Secretary of State weighs this dilemma and what exact route he has in mind. In substance, the first-term reply and the letter of 12 February did not remove all the objections to the legislative proposal and some points remained unclear. I shall begin with the strong position of broadcasting associations and a modest role for the NPO. First of all, the position of the broadcasting organizations. For the Christian Union Group, Article 2.88 is the core in this respect, which guarantees that broadcasters themselves are concerned with the content and design of the programmes. However, as this article relates to the guiding authority of the NPO, erosion of that independent position is a risk. In the letter from NPO and a majority of broadcasters, agreements have been made that contribute to the confidence that things are not going that fast. But the legal text must also be clear in itself. The Christian Union Group lacks a legal framework for the steering role of the NPO. As a result, the concept of steering can become a container concept which leaves less and less freedom of content to broadcasters. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reduce the direction of the NPO to the legal tasks based on the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the agreements on public engagement and the coordination of supply channels? In carrying out all these tasks, too, the freedom of broadcasters to be responsible for the content and design will have to remain intact. 2.88, which relates precisely to the content and design, powerless. The Christian Union Group considers a clear and defined legal text to be important. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to clarify this. Then there is the room for philosophical input, but Mr Atsma is now drawing a sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u85	New paragraph, new subject. Mrs Bikker is asking a lot of the Secretary of State. She actually says: before we can decide on this law, the Secretary of State should come up with a clarification and amendment of the law on the issue of steering. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u86	I believe that Article 2.2, which clearly states that the NPO is to be given a steering role, makes it difficult to relate to Article 2.88, because the guiding role of the NPO is not sufficiently framed in Article 2.2. In fact, I believe that there is a need to clarify what this direction means and that the law should define that framework. I have just mentioned what points the law contains and how this direction can take shape. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u87	Then we agree on that point. If I interpret Mrs Bikker's words correctly, this would mean that the Secretary of State would have to come up with an amendment to the law before the final vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr Atsma just pulled a sprint and this is a very fast step. I would now like to make it very clear that I think it is important to know what the direction of the NPO means, because I do not want it to become a container concept. I would like to hear the Secretary of State on this later and then we can see what this means for the follow-up. If I say that the legal text is not clear in itself now, you will understand that I am very happy with fine words or fine letters, for example on the rules of the game as discussed by the NPO and the majority of broadcasters, but that we need to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u89	I'd like to build on that letter. I have already said the necessary things myself. It is completely unclear what the role of the NPO is in advance. From the letter you can conclude that the NPO also determines the substantive framework in advance. You don't want that, do you? If you say yes to that, I agree with you. I would like to have that recorded for the sake of historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u90	Even if the letter was completely clear, I would not be reassured because the legal text is not clear in itself. That's where I'm going. That's my role in this room, too. I think it's wonderful that people in Hilversum know how to make appointments. That's what I'm from. It is very good that civil society is able to find each other. I think the CDA likes that a lot, too. We have to lay down laws here that are clear. Mr. Chairman. I was on the verge of reflection. I thank the Secretary of State for his robust statement that philosophy is an integral part of the public media mission. At the same time, such a statement of relative value if it has a limited practical effect, especially now that philosophy is not itself in the law. Moreover, Hilversum continues to pay attention to the amount of funding made available for the programming of small philosophical broadcasters. A sum of 12 million, earmarked in the Court when these small broadcasters were shut down and merged into the large eight. In addition to this programming, there are also the major recognized broadcasters who, from their identity, produce philosophical programmes. Both in terms of budget and in terms of transmission time, they have always had the same rights as any other arbitrary broadcaster. That shouldn't bite each other now. Therefore, the disappearance of philosophy from the legal text and the developments in Hilversum do not reassure us. Together, this should not lead to a slimming of philosophical programming. Because philosophy is one of the pillars of the pluralism of public service broadcasting. In order to confirm the budget for programming former 2.42 broadcasters and to ensure the position of philosophical programming in the broad sense so that it does not move increasingly to the margins, I shall therefore table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Sent, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Schnabel, Mr Krikke and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that philosophy is an integral part of the public media mission;]] [[noting that attention to philosophy contributes to the mission of public service broadcasting to adequately reflect the pluralism of our society;]] [[Whereas, in the event of the abolition of small philosophical broadcasters (2.42 broadcasters), an amount of at least EUR 12 million per year has been earmarked for philosophical programming previously provided by these broadcasters;]] [[Whereas, in addition, all recognised broadcasting organisations were entitled and held on budget to make programmes based on their own identity, including those of a philosophical nature;]] [[Whereas recognised broadcasting organisations should continue to have financial scope in order to be able to offer on the basis of their philosophical identity and, in addition, to implement programming previously provided by the 2.42 broadcasters from the earmarked budget;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the performance agreement between the Government and the NPO the minimum amount of EUR 12 million per year for programming previously provided by the 2.42 broadcasters;]] [[calls on the Government to confirm that the NPO will also continue to free up room and budget for broad philosophical programming and to lay this down in the Performance Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Secretary of State's response to this motion. With regard to the appointment policy, the distance between Hilversum and The Hague must be increased and this point must quickly become a concrete legal text. Several speakers have already spoken about it. I agree with the critical questions raised by the PvdA Group on this point. The Secretary of State has made promises that I would like to see as legal texts. Then I can assess exactly what it is going to look like, even at the points that are still a little vague. I am also thinking of the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. How does the Secretary of State see it? I regret that there is still no administrative agreement with the province of Fryslân. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Ten Hoeve's motion. I urge the Secretary of State to express and follow up in his plans the observation that Frisian is the second state language. The legislative proposal that determines the content of regional broadcasting has yet to be followed. I would like to have the Secretary of State's promise that he will speed it up. Then we can quickly link content and form together. According to the Christian Union, the future of public service broadcasting benefits from strong broadcasters working on content, shaping pluralism and the transfer of values, so that viewers learn about each other's deepest beliefs. Public service broadcasting does not become stronger from discussions about expanding NPO direction or about appointments. For the Christian Union, it is therefore important that the bill provides more solidity for broadcasters in the implementation of their editorial freedom and provides more framework for the steering role of the NPO. In addition, we have our concerns regarding the point of view of life. These are the points on which we will weigh this bill, and I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State will go further in this debate than the amendment of the law he has already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I have identified a number of key points which weigh heavily on our assessment of the Media Act. The reaction of the Secretary of State, I said at the time, will determine our final judgment. In this second term, we will look at whether the answers of the Secretary of State, for which we are grateful, come far enough in our direction. I start at local and regional level. Our group has expressed its concern about the growing lack of independent media that can be critically followed by local politics. Many local broadcasters lead a marginal existence, newspapers and newspapers see their readers digging. From the system of responsibility of the State for the whole of public service broadcasting, we have asked the State Secretary to take initiatives to improve support for local broadcasting. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment in the debate on 2 February to inform us during this term of office of the results of the Media Commissioner's investigation into the financing of local broadcasting. Of course, we are not only curious about the results, but also, above all, about the reaction of the cabinet to them. My group's commitment is to strengthen financial support for local broadcasting and to support initiatives for cooperation in strong regional broadcasting. Many groups have expressed their concerns about the financial situation of regional broadcasters as RPO formation slows down and the cabinet wants to achieve the 17 million cuts in 2017. My group asked and asked for a generous contribution from the Secretary of State to the cost of friction. The wording in the letter of 12 February to cover any friction costs within what is reasonably possible, my group thinks is very cautious. We would prefer to speak of what is reasonably necessary. We are also more in line with the oral commitment in the debate, where the Secretary of State was still talking about dealing with friction costs. I'd like a reaction to that. In my contribution, my group also referred to the editorial independence of the regional editors. We would like a commitment that the legislative proposal on regional broadcasting later this year will regulate the editorial independence of the editorial staff, for example by laying down a statute for drafting. On this point, my group has not yet heard a clear position from the Secretary of State. GroenLinks has made a sharp point of governance. In our view, it is an excellent task for the First Chamber to ensure that there is sufficient distance between politics and the media, as the Constitution and the ECHR mean. Now that the NPO is going to steer instead of coordinating and able to set firm substantive frameworks, additional steps are needed to put politics at a distance. The long-term pattern of politically-looking appointments in the NIS before and now want to break the NPO to avoid any appearance. The Secretary of State has now undertaken not to interfere with the appointments of the board of directors of the NPO and to undertake a broad review of the appointment policy at NOS, NTR, NPO, RPO and Media Commissioner; what a lot of abbreviations. The first is a good step. The second is fine with us. But such exploration can of course still go in all directions. We appreciate the State Secretary's statement that his efforts are also aimed at openness and transparency in all appointments to supervisors and directors in these institutions. That's very nice. But we want to take those extra steps now. Let me make it clear: for the appointments to both the board of directors and the supervisory board at the NPO and the RPO, we now want butter on the fish. If the NPO is going to steer instead of coordinating, politics must be as far away as possible. In this second period, I have promised to return to the substance of the matter. My group wants a binding nomination from an independent appointment committee, which is not set up by the Minister or Secretary of State, but by the organisations themselves. That appointment committee should start work on the basis of established profiles, which are not precooked at the Ministry. We also want a role for our proposed customer panel, which can provide advice to the management of the NPO on how society is represented in the public sector. That wide-ranging panel, which society can represent in all its versatility, a kind of social advisory council, we want to create to ensure the diversity of the public system in practice. In our first term, my group has stressed the importance of diversity within the NPO in its framework role as well as within the organisation itself. Such an advisory council can play an important role in this. As far as we are concerned, a role in the appointment of supervisors and directors is an important but not only part of it. We do not think that the answers of the Secretary of State to these elements are sufficient so far. We like to see meaningful steps in our direction. Much has been said and talked about the interpretation of Article 2.88, and the checks-and-balances between NPO and broadcasters. My group wants clarity on this, regularly in the law, in line with what the Christian Union Group said about it. The NPO draws up frameworks, the broadcasters are autonomous in their drafting. If the law is clear, Hilversum can fill in the procedure itself, but then our own legal frameworks should not leave room for misunderstandings. Unfortunately, some ambiguity has arisen because after the debate in the Lower House there were always different interpretations on the table. We want to get rid of that. We would like to know from the Secretary of State how he is going to clarify the law and how he will avoid the ambiguity. Finally. One of the foundations of the new law is that the system is more open to initiatives by external producers. We welcome this when it leads to an even more diverse and multicoloured range of quality programmes. In the debate we expressed our concern that, given the scale increase in the wider media landscape, large, often international players will easily dominate the supply. We would also like the answer of the Secretary of State on this point to be more precise, and my group agrees with the comments made by Mrs Bikker on the earmarked funds for philosophical programmes. We would like these budgets to be earmarked and preferably used by smaller independent producers. My group looks forward to the second term of the Secretary of State and will carefully consider his answers in her final assessment of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. We are continuing today with the spicy debate that took place a few weeks ago. In that debate it became clear that many groups have difficulty with this bill. In itself, that's beautiful, because it's our job to keep looking at the quality of the law. We must keep in mind how such a law works and whether it achieves its objective. We have asked the Secretary of State to put his commitments on paper. I thank the Secretary of State for sending it to us. But perhaps it was also a little wishful thinking of me, hoping that the Secretary of State had listened carefully to this senate and that he had responded to the concerns expressed. We must now learn from the media that the debate has continued outside this Chamber. Can the Secretary of State make transparent whether and, if so, what commitments he made in the secrecy of the lobby circuit which he apparently did not want to make earlier in the public debate? We're not a fan of that circuit. A debate on the future of public service broadcasting should be public. Which rabbits had this Secretary of State in his hat when he visited the parties? Now we have the second deadline and it is time to take stock. The Secretary of State has not yet been able to convince me that these legislative changes will make public service broadcasting future-proof. On the contrary, the State Secretary only changes control of public service broadcasting. He didn't give a visionary image. The Secretary of State is now saying that he is actively working on the way in which the supervisory board and board members are appointed, not only at the NPO but also at other bodies. This is what's bothering me the most. I read in the NRC that the Secretary of State is seen as a smart man, at least by our Prime Minister. This clever man could have thought that more state influence on public broadcasting goes against all standards of freedom of broadcasting. I have also been surprised that such proposals come from a VVD, after all, a party that is always advocating less government interference. The Secretary of State could have thought of this on his own. Why didn't he take on the way he was appointed right? The Secretary of State then appoints a VVD as chairman of the Supervisory Board. In his first term, he said that he was very aware of that sensitivity, that he reciprocated and weighed. He even said, if I hadn't appointed him, these questions would have come. He was in a so-called catch-22. And yet, despite this struggle, despite this thought, the Secretary of State chose this chairman of the Supervisory Board. What qualities does this Mr Bruins have that he is now the perfect person for this position, which even in that catch-22 situation the Secretary of State said: I can also put another one here? This is all the more true because Mr Bruins is also chairman of the UWV's board of directors. The UWV is also not a whole and all unspoken zbo. In doing so, the Secretary of State is also taking a risk. But, according to the Secretary of State, in the history of law, the Zbos are explicitly excluded from the Media Act. We all know, of course, that it is a question of whether there is another major issue that could affect the independence of the President. Even if the Secretary of State thinks the law allows this, the statutes of the NPO don't. It is not such an exception. It really says that a position in an organisation which falls under the responsibility of a ministry is incompatible. Will the Secretary of State please answer the question: is the UVW under the responsibility of one of our ministries? In the meantime, I understand that the whole process of appointment is being wobbled. I think it would be a good idea to spare us all that effort. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to make the documents surrounding that appointment public. This debate is also about credibility and trust. That confidence is really shaky because of the steps taken by the Secretary of State. The letter from the NPO and some broadcasters indicating that the NPO will no longer look at matters such as presenters, guests, subjects or on specific parts of the form and content when assessing a programme proposal is a fine letter. It contains commitments that really do not have any legal basis. If we adopt this law today and the NPO decides tomorrow to do it differently, the broadcasters will not have a foothold to stand on. It is also a letter that has no support for a large proportion of the members of the public service broadcaster because a number of broadcasters have not co-signed this letter. My biggest concern is about a sentence in this letter. It says: "The choice for presenters, guests, subjects or specific parts of the form and content of the programmes or other media offerings are not part of the substantive framework." It then reads: "This is without prejudice to the competence of the NPO to review each programme proposal in the light of the substantive frameworks referred to above by its subscription or ex post examination." I have studied Dutch for a choice for presenters, guests subjects and so on. In short, what is promised is immediately overturned in the second line. So I wonder to what extent we can still trust that letter. Finally, my group would like to add that the plans are disastrous for regional broadcasters, that the journalistic possibilities of regional broadcasters will be limited and that the objections raised to them are fully valid, including for the RPO. The Secretary of State has promised to help with the friction costs, but how that will happen is still very vague. I ask the Secretary of State to ensure that these costs do not need to be pre-financed from the general reserves that are desperately needed to bring about the reforms. In particular, independent information is under pressure. At the same time, this cabinet is placing increasing responsibility on the citizen. He must be able to inform himself properly. I refer to the SCP report on the framework conditions for citizen involvement in the new environmental system, the new Environment Act. This law is going to make a huge appeal to citizenship and citizen participation. This report states, among other things, that this citizen participation calls for a well-informed citizen. For example, a large piece deals with the quality of communication and the necessity of critical truth finding. However, regional news is under pressure due to a decline in coverage, an outdated public and a fragile financial situation, according to the report's authors. How is it possible that the SCP sees this as a worrying development and that today we are on the verge of further dismantling or decommissioning regional and local broadcasters? I'm asking for a response from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has been lobbying hard over the past few weeks to get his plan through the Senate. The fact that he skipped the SP here is a sign on the wall. His vision and ours are miles apart. Trust has been damaged by the Secretary of State's actions. The NPO and a few broadcasters have put a story on paper that has no legal basis and even runs counter to it. We cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. At the start of the debate on the amendment of the Media Act on 2 February, I referred to the uncomfortable feeling that had remained with me and some of my colleagues after the expert meeting in December; so many opinions and, above all, so much difference of opinion on the legislative proposal. Still confused, I said then, and I was hopefully adding that it would be at least "confused on a higher level" and hopefully also "about more important things." To the extent that this was still the case at the beginning of the debate, there was little more evidence of this higher level at the end of the evening. In his answers to questions from this Chamber, the Secretary of State seemed to have lost track. He left us quite stunned. In his letter of 12 February he tried to find his way back, but I cannot say that he has returned to the right path. For that, the detour is too big for him to go into the letter at all, not to go into D66's criticism of his bill. We were not amused, I tell you. I do not therefore thank the Secretary of State for not answering our questions in this case. That is why I would like to use this second deadline to make it very clear once again what is at least necessary to get D66's support for this bill. In order not to cause confusion even at a higher level, I limit myself to the more important things, the most important things as far as D66 is concerned. First of all, the Media Act must make it clear that the selection of members of the Supervisory Board of public service broadcasting must take place in a completely transparent and devoid of any political influence. The nomination to the Minister or Secretary of State must be made by an independent committee and the nomination must be binding. If, of course, this can always be very serious reasons for not making a nomination, then it must be opened up and then it is up to the committee to come up with a new nomination. As far as we are concerned, the board of directors of public service broadcasting is appointed and dismissed by the supervisory board of public service broadcasting. This also applies mutatis mutandis to the RPO. It is clear that both the Supervisory Board and the Management Board are important changes to the legislative proposal. It is up to the Secretary of State to make us a good proposal on this, but I would like to make it quite clear that for D66 a simple commitment to change in the future after the adoption and implementation of the law in its present form is not acceptable. We attach great importance to good governance of public service broadcasting. That is more than strengthening the power of control in and of public service broadcasting. This "more" includes the procedures and rules for achieving a direction that will be free from influences that can make the mission and objectives of public service broadcasting instrumental for the defence of interests other than providing high-quality public media services. Try quoting that! As far as D66 is concerned, the reinforcement of the NPO's guidance provided for in the legislative proposal can only take place after the desired change in governance. As far as we are concerned, the order cannot be reversed. Mr President, D66 would like to contribute to the search for a more open system, in which there are more opportunities for new operators from outside the system of hidden broadcasters that was created almost 100 years ago. D66 does not want to contribute to a transition from dispersal to politicalisation of the system. "More openness, pluralism and creative competition" promises the bill of law in the preamble. This should also be visible in governance. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that he sees it that way and acts accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
