ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u1	Mr. Chairman. It has been a while since we discussed the AO on these subjects. During the debate with the Minister, two subjects remain in my view. I would like a ruling from the Chamber on these two subjects. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. The first motion is about driving licence prostitution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of investigations conducted by regional police, the Foreign Police Department, Identification and Trafficking (AVIM) and the Prostitution and Trafficking Control Team (CPM), Rotterdam police have issued an administrative signal that measures are needed to address driving schools and instructors offering driving lessons in exchange for sex;]] [[also noted that, inter alia, the CBR and BOVAG car industry have called on the government to take action against such driving licence prostitution;]] [[Whereas, according to the government, there is little that can be done about this type of exchange sex;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt legislation prohibiting driving licence prostitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Kooiman, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u2	Where, in Mr Segers' view, is the current law not sufficient to prohibit this in relation to dependence? This driving licence prostitution involves a relationship of dependence which puts pressure on people to provide sexual services. In addition, driving lessons are often given to minors, to young people aged 17 or 18. So we're not allowed to do this right now. I am just looking for what is still missing from the current legislation. What is the difference with what Mr Segers is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u3	Involuntary exchange is already prohibited in the law. However, this is about a voluntary or an apparently voluntary exchange. So this is about payment in kind that you can say: this does not fit a decent industry. The BOVAG itself is also said to want to put an end to this and we do not want it to be a legitimate means of payment in our industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr Segers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u5	The next motion is about the police liaison in Bucharest. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the approach to trafficking in human beings calls for good international police cooperation, in particular with source countries;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has a permanent police liaison officer in Bucharest for this purpose;]] [[Furthermore, considering that its added value for police, OM, KMar and Inspection SZW has already been fully demonstrated, for example, by the significant increase in investigations, the improved cooperation with police and justice in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Moldova and the initiation of criminal investigations in relation to labour exploitation;]] [[Considering that the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings sent a letter on 27 January 2016, in which she points out the "unmistakable importance of a permanent liaison officer" in Bucharest and considers this "very important" "to ensure that the approach to trafficking in human beings in these countries is pursued vigorously";]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a permanent police liaison officer in Bucharest after 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Volp, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kooiman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mr. Chairman. The AO's been a while. One of the themes raised was the exit programmes, which actually give prostitutes who want to get out and have another job. These programmes are now available from the Empire, but in the future there will certainly be an important task for municipalities, which is not yet sufficiently taken up at the moment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that more than half of the prostitutes sometimes or often think of getting out and that about half of the prostitutes do not know where to go;]] [[whereas according to the reports "Prostitution in the Netherlands in 2014' and "Prostitution in Dutch municipalities' (2014), only 6% to 11% of the municipalities pay attention to the topic of exit and there is no evidence that this number has increased substantially in the meantime;]] [[considers that it is important for municipalities to pursue active policies to promote and implement the opportunities for exit programmes;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the establishment of a policy vision by local authorities on the possibilities of helping to end the work of prostitutes and the way in which prostitutes are informed of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Volp, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have dealt with many issues in the AA, including the removal of the age limit in Eurodac. The Minister was going to discuss that. I have read the documents on this subject which have been exchanged in Europe. It seems very much like there is that wish, but I would like to hear from the Minister what the outcome of that discussion is. I would also like to know today what the outcome of the discussion that the Minister would have with the Mayor of Amsterdam to keep an eye on the prostitutes when they can no longer be registered with the GGD because of privacy. In the meantime, we have also received a new report from the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. It indicates that the number of reports has decreased, while it assumes that there is no reason to assume that the number of offences has also decreased. She writes: "Especially at the Koninklijke Marechaussee (KMar) there is a large fall in the number of reports: in 2015 it decreases by 46% compared to 2014. The increased focus on human trafficking and the associated prioritisation at the KMar seems to have a major impact on the reduction of notifications. (...) Refugees, who have often come here with the help of smugglers, are vulnerable to trafficking in human beings, therefore one should be extra alert..."You see here, to speak in terms of terminology, a kind of waterbed effect: you pay extra attention to one which makes you no longer see the other. How is the Minister going to prevent a shift or a whole group from getting out of the picture? We would have liked to take this opportunity for a moment. So there's no motion. We just want a good answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u8	Mr Van Oosten, on behalf of the VVD, gave up his speaking time, as did Mrs Swinkels. That would be the contribution of the Chamber. The minister needs three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their questions and comments. It was a long time ago in Parliament that we discussed this with each other; it was on 26 April this year. However, the issue of trafficking in human beings and prostitution has not lost any importance. We have celebrated the 30th anniversary of CoMensha over the past week. I was allowed to speak and pointed out the simple fact that an organisation such as CoMensha, which supports victims of trafficking in human beings, has existed for 30 years. The fact that the end of that organisation is far from being foreseen means that there is still much work to be done for us. I repeat what I said at the time: trafficking in human beings, whether it is sexual exploitation on the one hand or labour exploitation on the other, is one of the most flagrant violations of human rights we have. The simple fact that people in their physical integrity or their freedom to choose where to pursue their activities are curtailed or that their integrity or freedom is even removed is extremely serious and it is therefore appropriate for us to always have that as a priority. In this context, it is indeed worrying that the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, whom I have always referred to as a positive and constructive frame work of government policy, I am very pleased with the work of the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, who has indicated that the number of victims is decreasing, but that this does not mean that we can be pleased. At Congress, I also indicated that it is likely that it will oblige us to make even more efforts in the important area of identifying and supporting victims. For this reason, as the Chamber knows, I have included in the recent Millions Note that I would like to make an additional investment in the investigation into trafficking in human beings, precisely because of the signals written by the National Rapporteur. That is where I come in. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked a question about the age limit for Eurodac. The proposal is on the table of the European Commission. During discussion in the Council, it has been indicated that the Netherlands sees benefits in reducing the minimum age. I don't know if this has led to a conclusion. We will find out and I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to inform the Chamber on this, because I think this falls within the portfolio of the Secretary of State. I have already answered Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about the worrying reduction in the number of reports. Then we have the point of the GD. I planned a broad consultation with the mayor of Amsterdam on 11 October. I also promised this in the AO and both the representative organisation of the prostitutes and the representatives of the benefitting side of the sex industry. Those conversations can be followed the same evening by conversations with the Dutch Association of Banks and with the Association of Insurance Companies, to see if there are any remaining problems that require a solution. I will also discuss the issue of the GGD and the issue of the privacy law with Mayor Van der Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u10	I'm sure we'll get a nice letter that says what's been discussed. I was shocked that the Minister said that the number of reports has fallen and that he concluded that things are improving. However, the rapporteur writes that there is no reason to believe that the number of crimes is falling. This Minister seemed a bit boisterous: look how well we are doing, because the number of reports is falling. However, that is exactly the whole problem. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that not only the number of reports is reduced, but also, above all, the number of crimes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mrs Van Toorenburg was actually quoting what I just said. You might think that's how I just formulated it, and that's how I put it during the presentation of the 30th anniversary of CoMensha, that it's good news, but it's not. I assume that it is not good news, and that is why I have made additional money available to strengthen the approach to trafficking in human beings. I'm coming to the Segers c.s. motion. in piece No. 146 on the subject on which I have often had an exchange of views with Mr Segers. It has to be said that, like Mr Segers and I think many others, I find it undesirable that driving lessons, or whatever, are offered in exchange for sexual acts. The cabinet considers such cases to be undesirable in principle, but it does not see any reason to criminalise bartering between adults, specifically driving lessons in exchange for sexual acts. Mr Van Oosten was right to point out in an interrupting debate with Mr Segers that it is obviously different when it comes to minors. The administrative signal also does not show that it is a common and structural process. The Public Prosecutor's Office has no record of such practices. I have already indicated to Mr Segers that I do not see any reason for a ban. In the meantime, even after consultation with the colleague of Infrastructure and the Environment, the industry organisations have drawn up a starting document on the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Training Act. In this context, a wide-ranging attention has been paid to malicious practices within the industry. Regular consultations are taking place with the colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment. Mr Van Nispen just said: what is the problem? If it takes place between two adults, there is to a large extent the freedom of people to make choices in it. Moreover, given the problem, which we consider to be small, I see no reason to give a different opinion on the motion than 'dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u12	The BOVAG asks for action and asks the cabinet to act because he is upset by these people, who ultimately tarnish the entire profession. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the BOVAG and find out what signals the BOVAG receives, to what extent it occurs and what can be done against this practice, apart from the legislative amendment I am asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u13	I won't have that conversation myself, because I'm not talking to the BOVAG. That really is a responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. It is also responsible for the Motor Vehicle Training Act, which lays down the requirements for becoming and remaining a driving instructor. The starting point of that law is to ensure road safety. That administrative signal has been discussed, as I said, at regular meetings with the industry associations of driving schools, the CBR and the examination institute for driving instructors. There was no evidence that this would occur more than occasionally. The starting document is there to provide better consumer information. It is not on my way to speak to the BOVAG itself, while the industry that really matters has been spoken to. The motion Segers c.s. in piece No. 147 is about the police liaison in Bucharest. I suggest first of all that I would not approve of making police liaison policy dependent on individual MPs' motions. That is why we presented an integral policy for police liaisons one and a half years ago. The room knows that, too. It indicates where people should be placed for what reason. I will do the same in the summer of 2017. This would also mean that the choices would be presented to the Chamber and discussed for the following years. They're always valid for two years. It would then be the years 2018 and 2019. I informed the Chamber in 2015. Now the police liaison in Bucharest is already ending in mid-2017. This means that when the policy is finished, de facto the termination of the police liaison would be on the agenda. As I find that undesirable, I decided to extend the police liaison in Bucharest for two years after 2017. The policy will be presented to the Chamber in mid-2017, but I can say that I have decided to extend the police liaison for two years. If I may regard the motion as such as supporting the policy, I am happy to take it over. That is the decision I have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u14	This can only be done if the applicant agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u15	I saw Mr Segers nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u16	Next, the Chamber must agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u17	I understand the Minister would like me to nod. I therefore like to nod again. If the Minister takes over the motion, then it is ready and we are reassured. I understand what the Minister is saying, namely that we are not talking about personnel policy, but at the same time this was a very serious signal and the National Rapporteur sent us a letter on this subject, which was on our plate. That's why we made this motion. Now it's done. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u18	I would point out that, when I was a Member of Parliament, we were with a number of Members of Parliament in Romania and Bulgaria. Unfortunately, I had to miss the last part of it, but then too, I became the interest of a police liaison at that location.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u19	I have to ask the Chamber if she agrees to take over the motion. I see no objection to that. The motion will then be taken over by the cabinet and will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u20	I would like to make one more comment on this point. I am not opposed to taking over and it seems a bit procedurally boastful, but I heard the Minister say that he would rather not have the Chamber sit on the cabinet seat on the issue of individual civil servants' policy. Then I would be sorry if we were to do so along this road, by adopting a motion which actually determines that. So let me say on this side that that is not the intention. I do, of course, support Mr Segers' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u21	I do not hear any opposition from Mr Van Oosten to the government taking over the motion. The motion will therefore be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u22	I will. I have taken good note of Mr Van Oosten's comment, which is in line with my comment: in general, I do not think this should be done, but in this particular case I cannot expect the Chamber to wait until mid-2017, because the decision on Bucharest has already been taken de facto. In Mr Staaij's motion to item No. 148 calls for local authorities to adopt a policy vision. We have already had an exchange of views on this subject, including in general consultations. I remember that an amendment by Mr Van der Staaij, which imposed much more of an obligation, was not adopted by the Chamber. I see the thrust of this motion as an effort for the cabinet to draw the attention of municipalities to their own responsibilities, also in view of the expiry of the exit programmes financed by the state. For that reason, I shall leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. I will report through the Secretary of State Mrs Van Toorenburg on the issue of Eurodac.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-23.u23	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
