ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the spokesmen and the Minister. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Bommel on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Madam President. In 1999, the people of Montenegro were the victims of air strikes by NATO. Seventeen years later, the government of the country wants to join NATO. In May, Montenegro and the 28 NATO Member States signed the protocol allowing the Balkan state to join the military alliance. Times can change. Montenegro is a sovereign country. It itself decides which organisation it wants to become a member of and of which it does not. That choice is not ours. There is another question before us: is it desirable for NATO to expand further, in this case with Montenegro? I have serious doubts about the division into three categories: the first concerns the usefulness for NATO, the second the high tensions in Europe and the third the situation in Montenegro itself, which is highly polarised. First of all, I would like to say something about the usefulness of NATO. I wonder what Montenegro has to offer NATO with only about 650,000 inhabitants and an army of around 2,000 soldiers. The answer can be guessed, but I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The country is also in a less stable region. History has shown this all too often, both in the 1990s and in the tens of the last century, when in the Balkans the cause of a devastating world war was found: the first. Ethnic and religious tensions run right through the Balkans and right through Montenegro itself. How does the Minister view this? Does this region not need more stability before NATO takes further steps? Then there are the disputed borders of Montenegro itself. Can the Minister confirm that Montenegro has a border dispute with Croatia because of a strip of land called Prevlaka and that it has a border conflict with Bosnia and Herzegovina because of a piece of land called Sutorina? Then there are the supporters of a Greater Albania, who believe that parts of Montenegro's land actually belong to the southern neighbouring country. What is the latest state of affairs regarding finding a solution to these border disputes? And what consequences can all this have for the functioning of the NATO Treaty, in particular Article 5: an attack on one is an attack on all? Can the Minister explain how these border disputes relate to the outcome of the 1995 NATO study on enlargement: the Study on NATO Enlargement? Is it not correctly stated that border disputes need to be resolved first? There is also support for that position in the Chamber. Mr Ten Broeke said earlier this month in a debate on NATO that there are certain minimum standards to be met, such as the absence of border conflicts. I often disagree with Mr Ten Broeke, but I support and support him on this point. How does the Minister view the criterion that there should be no border conflicts? I would like a response to that. I come to the high-level tensions in Europe. There is no doubt that Montenegro's accession to NATO will put further pressure on relations between East and West between Russia on the one hand and Europe and the US on the other. That is problematic, because besides the producers of weapons of war, no one gets better from a Cold War 2.0. Instead of increasing tensions, we need to look for mechanisms to de-escalate the situation. I hope the Minister agrees with me. Does the Minister also see that Montenegro's accession contributes to increasing tensions? Enlargement of NATO towards the east also runs counter to the agreements made between NATO and Russia at the end of the last century, when the Soviet Union imploded. According to history, during the reunification of East and West Germany, it was clearly stated that NATO would not expand further towards the Russian border. That would have been part of the deal. Can the Minister respond to that? It is not unimaginable that this NATO expansion makes cooperation with Russia in other parts of the world more difficult. Think of Ukraine and Syria, where a solution to the lingering conflicts is unthinkable without Russian cooperation. Is this taken into account? My third and last category concerns the highly polarized relations in Montenegro itself. The recent parliamentary elections in October have shown once again that the country has been divided to the point. On the day of the elections, a coup attempt would have been thwarted, a coup attempt which the joint opposition has dismissed as a publicity stunt of the ruling pro-Western DPS to influence the outcome of the elections. What is the Minister's view of political relations in that country? Is it true that the opposition has boycotted parliamentary meetings and claims that there has been fraud? Is the result of the elections still not recognised by them? What is the current state of affairs? Are these accusations being investigated independently? And is it true that NATO opponents have been arrested since the elections? Opinion polls have repeatedly shown that the population is very divided about the desirability of NATO membership. There have also been demonstrations against NATO. The protesters' demand is for the government to issue a referendum so that the people themselves can decide the future, but the government refuses to do so. Well, that's a good thing to think about. Russia has repeatedly and clearly stated that NATO membership of Montenegro has an impact on relations between them. This is worrying, because the citizens of Montenegro can be the victims of counter-measures. After all, Russia has a considerable influence in the country, not least economically, but also culturally. I'm asking the Minister not to close his eyes on this. I'd like a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	I'd like to come back to the coup attempt. I believe that there was an assassination attempt on the Prime Minister, who was properly democratically elected, at least that is what the newspapers I read about it write. Mr Van Bommel is shopping a little selective about how this is judged. Let's stick to the facts that we can all establish. There are 20 to 22 people in Serbia who have ties with the Serbian security services. Of these, if I do, two or three officers of the GRU, the Russian military intelligence service, have been sent to Russia. Are those facts known to Mr Van Bommel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	I can't control them, but I do know those messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	Then perhaps it is not up to us to dismiss it here as some kind of figment of opposition. Perhaps we should bear in mind that there may be countries with interests. The big question is whether, as Mr Van Bommel is doing now, as regards the possibility of accession after ten years of Montenegro's accession to NATO, you will consider using it to serve parties who may not want this accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	I understand Mr Ten Broeke when he says that you should not give the right to vote to parties who do not have a say in this. I very much agree with him. However, we are making our own assessment, on the basis of the categories I have just outlined. Of course, this is primarily about our own security interests and, therefore, NATO interests. But environmental factors also play a role. If the accession of Montenegro increases tensions with third parties, in this case with Russia, then we will have to ask ourselves whether that is a wise decision, including in view of other, now "hot", "serious hot" conflicts, in Syria and Ukraine, in which the Russians also play an important role and in which we need them to resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	Then I have a very short question. If you look at a map of how NATO has now expanded on the European continent, you will see a kind of white spot, in Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and also in Montenegro. There are about eight NATO countries around it. If you simply look at the map, how on earth can you, so I ask Mr Van Bommel, legitimize Russia's influence there with an appeal to culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	I don't need to legitimize that. That's not up to Dutch parties. It is not up to us to judge the influence, involvement and possible kinship that is actually experienced there. The latter will not contradict Mr Ten Broeke. I notice that this kindness is so experienced. And so we have to take that into account. By the way, there are many cards, but it is true that there is a white spot there. Does Mr Ten Broeke also know the card that accuses Russia of being so far removed from NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	Well, at least I know that ticket. It is because countries are free to choose which international organisation they join. That's a guiding principle. For a moment I got the impression that Mr Van Bommel also endorsed that. He himself is the applicant for this debate. He has asked a lot of questions and listed criteria, but I have not yet heard any conclusion. Is it possible, in Mr Van Bommel's view, for a country to join NATO freely at the present time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	I could give you a very long answer, but I'm not going to. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	That's a good thing. So it's possible. Those tensions are there. We all know that. But it is possible for a country to become a member. So what exactly is the measure? Where exactly does Mr Van Bommel lay the border? When can a country join and when is cultural influence or discussion within the democratic system in a country so problematic that it still moves back to the neekamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	It is difficult to express that with a percentage or a figure. Then you should give a report for stability or for geopolitical consequences. I don't want to risk it. I can't. I don't have a measuring instrument for that. I'll find they're problematic here. That is why, in my first term, I asked a number of questions to the Minister who specifically addressed them. There are also our own interests: in the region itself, for NATO, but also worldwide, given the conflicts elsewhere in the world. I do not think we should close our eyes to that. I do not blame Mr Servaes for doing so, but we must not close our eyes to it. That is why I would like to have an opinion from the Minister in the first term. It is common practice here that we ask for clarification on a number of issues in the first period before we reach a conclusion in the second period and finally even vote at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	As a procedural matter, I understand that the position of the SP Group will depend on the Minister's response in the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	I can tell you that I always find the Minister's answer to my questions of great importance, and therefore also in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	I don't think that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	No, but we're not going on about that now. Mr. Van Bommel, were you at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	Yeah, I was at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	Fine. I shall then briefly interrupt the debate, to welcome the Ambassador of Montenegro, Mr Radulović, and the members of his staff, on behalf of the Chamber, to the Chair. Your Excellency, it is my pleasure on behalf of the members of the House of Representatives to welcome you and your staff to this debate on the access of Montenegro to NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Before we eat, of course, we must first contradict Mr Van Bommel on some of the arguments he has put forward in order to bring the debate to a balance. The only point on which I agree with Mr Van Bommel is actually his introduction. In it he noticed how many can change in seventeen years. It is seventeen years since NATO decided to end Milošević's violence and also bombed Montenegro. Now, seventeen years later, the same Montenegro wants to join NATO. That is indeed a huge revolution. That's a huge difference in just two decades. However, my group considers that Montenegro's accession to NATO is completely different from Mr Van Bommel's view. That is firstly because, according to my group, Montenegro does want to do so. Mr Van Bommel sketches the image of a country that is torn apart about this choice and is desperately scratching behind its ears about what to do, a country in which people fly each other. But the reality is, of course, that the Montenegrin Parliament has spoken out for this on several occasions. The reality is that this was not even a theme in the last election campaign. The Euro-Atlantic course was not even an election theme. So where this polarization comes from, it's not very clear to me. The second reason why I am positive about this is that accession can also strengthen the NATO alliance. This further integrates the Western Balkans into the Euro-Atlantic structures, which in turn contributes to our security and stability. It also increases NATO's access to the Adriatic. This does not mean that accession is completely uncontroversial. I would like to say something about Mr Van Bommel. There were demonstrations in Montenegro and also a call for a referendum. That referendum did not come, but what was remarkable, perhaps very remarkable, is that this call for a referendum was also made by Russia. Unlike Mr Van Bommel, I would like to say that Russia once again takes on the classic role of game breaker and cross-stagger in this matter. Putin announced sanctions and wanted to stop all cooperation with Montenegro, including the military. The latter seems to me to be positive, to be honest. I mentioned the parliamentary elections in October 2016. They were a victory for the Euro-Atlantic course in Montenegro. Afterwards, however, the elections had a bit of a bad taste, with the media reports about planning a coup d'état and an attack on the Prime Minister during the elections. Fortunately, that coup failed and was thwarted in time. It is reported that 20 people have been arrested and that Russian nationalists have been involved. Mr Ten Broeke said the same thing. Can the Minister explain exactly what happened here? What links do the people who have been arrested with Russia and the Russian government and what happened to the suspects and the people of Russian nationality? Finally, I would like to comment on the reforms in Montenegro, because accession to NATO is of course not entirely non-binding. There are strict requirements for that. It means that you have to share the corresponding values, in word and in deed. Reforms have indeed been implemented, but there are also reforms that still need to be implemented. The problem of corruption is notorious and the problem of freedom of the press is huge. How does the Minister see the situation in Montenegro at the moment? What obstacles does he see and how does he think Montenegro will meet these requirements in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the accession of a mini-state to the NATO alliance. The Mini State of Montenegro has 650,000 inhabitants. I have noted that this mini-state has participated in the Membership Action Plan (MAP), that that mini-state has a military force of about 2,000 people and that the majority of the population, albeit a small majority, seems to support accession to NATO. Only the Serbian minority doesn't feel that crazy about that. I also note that Montenegro, due to its location on the Mediterranean Sea and in the heart of southern Europe, can be of great strategic value for the NATO alliance. Moreover, I note that Montenegro's accession to the NATO alliance will have no financial consequences for the Netherlands. I ask the Minister once again to confirm that. Because when the Netherlands invests in Defence, the PVV believes that this should be in its own Defense and not in Montenegro's defence. I read that in the period 2007 to 2015, Montenegro spent an average of 1.7% of its gross domestic product on defence. That's a good grade. So that, too, cannot be a reason to oppose Montenegro's accession to the NATO alliance. Then, of course, there is Russia's position. Russia has a great deal of difficulty with accession, but I must say that I am not very impressed by it. Surely the accession of Montenegro cannot reasonably see Russia as a threat in any way? For that, the country is far too far from Russia. Moreover, it is far too small to be able to pose a threat to Russia in the NATO alliance. Nor is there a frozen conflict between Montenegro and Russia. Putting everything together, I don't really see any objections. But at the end, I still have a question for the Minister. If I have seen it correctly, Montenegro has not yet ratified accession itself. I don't know if that's true, but I'm asking the Minister to respond. If Montenegro has not yet ratified, I wonder why not. You'd think a country that wants to join would be about the first to ratify it. But maybe there are reasons why that didn't happen. If the Minister can explain this, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. We have before us the law on the approval of Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO). Article 10 of the NATO Charter states that contracting parties may decide unanimously to accept another state on the European continent as a new treaty state. In May of this year, the 28 NATO Contracting Parties signed that protocol allowing Montenegro to join our military alliance. The parliaments, of course, still have to ratify, including the parliament of Montenegro itself. Until then, Montenegro will remain an observer. There are a number of key conditions that a country must fulfil before accession. Some of them have been incorporated very hard into the Charter. You have to be European. There must be democratic control over the armed forces. There must be individual freedom. There must also be some form of rule of law. Furthermore, an unresolved border conflict or a frozen conflict can be a reason not to allow a country to join or not to join. You could call that minimum standards, but then you shouldn't argue against mini-border conflicts. Because under the definition that Mr Van Bommel seems to have used, even the Netherlands could not have been a member of NATO until some time ago. And that is the Netherlands for almost 70 years. Fortunately, after a long time, we have found a solution to the border dispute. When talking about border conflicts, I think you should see Montenegro's accession through the following glasses: is this promoting stability or instability? That may have effects on possible border conflicts over a field here and there. I don't see that happening. So we should not exaggerate that either. Montenegro is now part of the so-called Membership Action Plan (MAP). The country associated itself with NATO almost immediately after independence in 2006. At the time, this went through the Partnership for Peace programme, which now includes illustrious countries such as Sweden, the Russian Federation, and I even think Finland. In 2009, Montenegro entered that Membership Action Plan. The country is small, it has 600,000 inhabitants, but so are some Baltic states. It has a non-inconsiderable military force of 2,000 men, a small brigade. Internationally, the country also participates. It contributes with officers to UN missions in Liberia and Cyprus. It participates in the mission off the coast of Somalia and has 25 men in the NATO Resolute Support mission in Afghanistan, which we shall be discussing tomorrow. Key question for the VVD when joining NATO is whether that accession enhances our collective security and whether the acceding country is prepared to show its solidarity militaryly. To answer the first question, all you have to do is look at the map. I just did that with Van Bommel. De Roon also pointed out that Montenegro is not at the edge of the NATO area, but is actually a kind of white spot in the middle of the NATO area. Serbia is the exception: it has an individual partnership with NATO. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia really only have the EAP status and will not get it anymore for the time being. But Montenegro is also surrounded by NATO treaty states such as Croatia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, Greece and Italy. That says something about the stability we want to have on our continent. The territorial unity of the Contracting Parties is of great importance from a military defensive point of view and is served by accession, including for the transfer of troops or the effective conduct of NATO operations on its own territory, should this be necessary. In addition, it gives more political and military unity in formulating our European security commitment and, above all, our security doctrines. That is a big question on our own continent. There are people who think that should come from a civil organisation called the "European Union." I still believe that NATO is the most suitable vehicle for this. That gives certainty, that gives predictability within Europe and we can use it well on the edges and outside Europe. So much for the reasons of substance. I would also like to mention a principled consideration here. The international community disagrees on many things. But one point of departure is central to the way in which we have divided this world. And that's that countries themselves are about who they trade with. We talked about it last night in relation to Ukraine. Countries themselves deal with the question of who they make agreements with. Countries themselves deal with the question of where and with whom they organise their security. Simply put: an independent country such as Montenegro must be able to decide for itself whether it wishes to become a member of a multilateral organisation such as NATO. Conversely, NATO's various contracting parties must be able to decide for themselves who can join the club. As soon as we say to a country, 'Van Bommel', it doesn't really matter anymore because a third party would get angry, we undermine that fundamental principle and sell the sovereignty of a country like Montenegro to the greatest screamer. In this case it is a screamer with whom this country does not even share a border. We can't give those screamers their way, especially now. As an alliance, it is more important than ever to stand united for what we think. We must not allow any division to be created because another country wants to test its unity. Considering that Montenegro fulfils the conditions laid down by NATO, after it has come a long way since the original association in 2006, and considering that its accession from a military and basic point of view is in the interests of the Netherlands and the rest of the alliance, the VVD will agree to this Act of Approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr Ten Broeke rightly states that it is the sovereign right of countries to decide for themselves which international or intergovernmental organisation they become members of. That's up to them. Third countries have no say in this. However, Mr Ten Broeke stressed that it was decided unanimously and that it is therefore up to all Member States and ultimately to parliaments of Member States to decide whether that is a good thing, whether that is a desirable development. That is the responsibility we are taking today. So we have to look at all the factors, Mr Ten Broeke, and there are a number of those that are decisive for us to assess whether we think that is a good thing, yes or no. On the question of the border dispute, Mr Ten Broeke is just a little too easy, while he quite rightly made that point earlier. The border dispute that has occurred has still given rise to Mike Turner........................................................................................................................................................... It is indeed a conflict that can just blow up again and must be resolved with pressure by third parties, by countries outside the region. Don't compare it to some border dispute in the Netherlands in a piece of land no one has any interest in, where emotion doesn't matter and where people don't even know it exists! That is quite different!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u23	It is good that Mr Van Bommel has brought sovereignty back. He should do more in close reading, not only during campaigns and in rooms, but also when we are debating in this Chamber afterwards. If you do close reading, you can see very well that I have indicated to Mr De Roon about the border conflicts that was in an interruption to inform him whether the PVV could support this extension of NATO.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You yourself indicated with the intervention of Mike Turner, who, incidentally, acted as President of the NATO Assembly, that NATO had had a positive influence on the peace process. It is therefore an additional reason to welcome Montenegro's accession as a treaty partner. If you'd walk past your own list again, I'd say one more reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u24	I think it was something else after all. Turner threatened to cancel American financial aid. It's not a NATO matter, it's an American matter. He also did it in his capacity as an American politician. There is, therefore, still a high-level conflict in 2015 which cannot be compared in any way, because that is what Mr Ten Broeke is doing: he is making a big deal, a small one, of that border conflict. That is not the issue here. I believe, with Mr Ten Broeke, that serious border disputes should be taken into account when answering the question of whether it is wise to allow a country to join. I understand it has to be made small in order to clean it away, but you can't do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm not making it a big deal. I would almost say: I am not Mr Van Bommel. Major high-level conflicts are not resolved by a president of the NATO Assembly. That is where, with all due respect for our own profession and for the Assembly, I myself am the chairman of the Dutch delegation. When we talk about a bagatel, you see here the opposite form of the exaggeration, which Mr Van Bommel uses in general. I am glad that he is doing so again in this Chamber today; so we know him again. In the second speech, the Americans have only welcomed Montenegro's accession. If there's one country out front to bring Montenegro in, it's America. This brings the European continent together and we are finally going to meet the wish expressed by the Americans since Kennedy: that Europe should stop its own pants when it comes to security, because more countries are going to serve NATO's security doctrines. You once had the famous rule that NATO didn't bomb in countries where McDonald's branches have. That rule has been released in the Balkans since the war, because in the conflict that has just been cited, that rule has been broken. I can tell you that this did not happen with the agreement of the SP, because it would have preferred not to have seen it. The SP will never have to worry again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u26	We're not gonna repeat a whole history. No, no, no, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u27	... because if Montenegro joins NATO now, there will never be another bombing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Broeke, you are now broadening the debate to a whole new issue, which is not directly at issue here. That would mean real entrapment. I do not think you agree on this point, but it has been made clear that you disagree. I would therefore like to move on to Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr President, one sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u30	It was also a very extensive interruption. One sentence, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u31	One sentence! McDonalds and the United States? Forget the SP! The UN didn't agree with those bombings. That was the big problem in the Balkans, Mr Ten Broeke!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u32	And you were cheering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. In any case, we are going to miss Mr Van Bommel with his sharp interruptions and attempts at entrapment. I wonder if he'll do that again. It has already been said by Mr Van Roon: mini-state Montenegro. By the way, we have much more within NATO, think of the Baltic States. The fact that they don't have so many inhabitants doesn't mean anything about the importance they attach to NATO and what NATO attaches to them. It has been said before: they themselves explicitly opt for rapprochement with the EU and NATO. In several elections, including the last one, that has been confirmed. The EESC welcomes the fact that Montenegro has carried out significant reforms in the past period of the Membership Action Plan, initiated the implementation of measures and demonstrated its commitment to the principles and values set out in the NATO Treaty. According to the cabinet, Montenegro fulfils the political and military criteria for accession to NATO. However, as we read in the note on the report, the cabinet is at the same time aware that Montenegro still needs to implement some reforms. Montenegro has committed itself to this too, but it is not certain whether they will actually be implemented in April next year, when Montenegro will actually join. The European Commission states that further improvement of the rule of law is necessary. Of course, this concerns the process of accession to the EU, but still. The cabinet recognizes itself in the picture presented by the European Commission. Why, for example, did not the implementation of the reforms wait until the final decision to join could be taken? In view of the Minister's reply in the written report, this would be an option. Could the Minister once again reflect on the question on which he is basing his confidence that it will all work out well with the measures that still have to be implemented? Is he further prepared to inform the Chamber in April, when accession becomes a reality, about the implementation of reforms by Montenegro until then? NATO uses an "open by policy." If a country such as Montenegro wants to join as a free sovereign democratic choice, that door must be open, provided, of course, that it meets the criteria. Moscow - it has been said before - sees all of this as a threat. Moscow itself sees the army positioned stock in Limburg as a threat. Well, if Moscow really sees that as a threat, I really can't imagine that, then it indicates that geopolitics has penetrated this country and that Russia is fighting for an atmosphere of influence everywhere. That is why it has surprised us that, in answering the questions in the written submission, the cabinet does not dare to mention that point so explicitly. It was only in response to the questions raised by the various political groups that the cabinet responded to this. For example, it wrote that according to Russia, economic sanctions threatened and that aircraft carrier, the steamer Kuznetzov, still requested to be refueled in one of the ports of Montenegro. The coup attempt in which the Russians may have been involved has also been discussed. It is clear that Russia is trying to increase its sphere of influence here. However, that should not be a reason to abandon this. We should not be put under pressure by everything the Russians are doing right now. We must assess the present application on: does it meet the criteria and is it a free choice? If so, Montenegro can participate. My group is in favour of this, let us be clear. I do have a few more questions about them, and I have just asked them to the Minister. I await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u34	Finally, we are going to listen to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Servaes. He speaks on behalf of the Labour Party. Then I'll suspend for a minute or ten. The Minister then replied. I intend to conclude this debate before dinner break and then continue with the debate on Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. I'm willing to cooperate with that. In fact, as far as I am concerned, this debate did not necessarily have to be held in this Chamber. It has been hammered out by Mr Van Bommel, from whom we will soon hear in the second term what the Minister will say on the basis of the answers. That is the great tension in this debate. At Mr Van Bommel's first term, I was disappointed that he failed to lay down a set of clear criteria. 'Cause I think there are. For that we have two simple criteria. The first is: does the country itself want it? The second is: does it meet the criteria set by NATO itself? It's as simple as that. We can respond in the affirmative to both questions. Does the country itself want it? Colleagues have already said that the Parliament, the people, has repeatedly expressed their support for NATO membership. By the way, 19 of the NATO Member States have also confirmed and ratified accession. So we could be the 20th country tonight. Does the country meet the criteria? That's obvious, too. It has taken steps over the years. It is very important that, as Mr Ten Broeke said, these are not just steps on paper and in the organisation. It has also shown the willingness to allow military forces from Montenegro to participate in missions, including the mission we are discussing tomorrow. I always find, and now also in the presence of the Ambassador of Montenegro, incredibly important to acknowledge how appreciated that contribution is. Those are the two criteria, and we have to look at them. Shouldn't you look at the geopolitical context in these situations? Of course you have to. But if we look at it with the map in hand, we can see that there is no more western country of the candidate countries of NATO than Montenegro, which is further away from the border with Russia. It is interlocked between other Member States and NATO candidate countries. It borders the Adriatic Sea and not the Black Sea or the Baltic Sea or where you could expect this kind of tension. I regret that a 'border conflict', in quotes, is added, which I do not think is relevant. In addition, a false presentation of things is given. The US NATO President has not put so much pressure on Montenegro because of this issue, but he has told Bosnia that it must stop playing this case. We are not judging Bosnia today, we are judging Montenegro. If we are going to raise this issue, the matter of Sutorina, which is not going to have every viewer at home right away, let us do it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u36	I have by no means wanted to suggest that Montenegro was being blamed here. What matters is that there is a conflict. This conflict must obviously be dealt with so high that sanctions are threatened. You know where sanctions can lead. Sanctions are a form of escalation which often leads to violent conflicts. In this region, where border conflicts have caused a great deal of suffering in the past, a border conflict can be taken seriously. Once again it is made a bagatel, now by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u37	I take note of the latter. With regard to the first, I am pleased that Van Bommel himself now recognises that it is not so much Montenegro to blame that at some point NATO has spoken of this in a Parliamentary Assembly. There's still a matter. If other countries, whether they are big, such as Russia, or a little smaller, like Bosnia in this case, speak of something, you should not leave immediately with the tail between your legs. You shouldn't let those countries blackmail you right away. Indeed, Russia has said today that the Netherlands, I quote, 'is getting caught up in deliberately ruining relations with Russia'. If I follow Mr Van Bommel's reasoning, this means that we must overrule the Crimean gold court and let the tanks in Mr Knops' backyard roll away immediately. That can't be true, can it? Surely we cannot say that every time a country, especially this country, which has so much conscience, is trying to defy us with this kind of nonsense, it is right to say: ooh, geopolitically, difficult, let us do nothing for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u38	In my view, these statements were in no way related to this debate. So I don't understand why this is being brought in now. There's a lot more bullshit coming from Russia. We have our own consideration to make here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u39	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u40	That's the point. We are always saying you say it, I repeat it to you and others say it is Montenegro's sovereign right to apply and to want NATO membership. But it is our responsibility to determine whether this is a good development, taking into account all environmental factors. Of course, we must take into account our own security as a primary factor and Montenegro's security, but also all other factors. That's what's going on here, not what's coming from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u41	That's very good to hear. Today's profit is that what comes from Russia for the SP in the future will have no consequences for its own position. It is clear where the Labour Party stands. We support this accession on the basis of the first two criteria I mentioned. The country wants it. It meets the criteria. Geopolitically, we see no obstacle to doing so now. My only question to the Minister is whether there are any concrete indications that Russia will materialise the threat of countermeasures, sanctions and what have you. Is the Netherlands or NATO prepared, if so, to show solidarity with the Montenegrins and thus to ensure that they are not the victims of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u42	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the first-term questions. This is an important debate in itself. Today we are meeting to discuss Montenegro's accession to NATO. I think this is an important moment. I indicated earlier that we are currently at a geopolitical turning point in Europe and in NATO. We must continue to look strategically at how we can guarantee our security. A strong NATO is, I think, an essential part of that. Although there is relative tranquility in the Western Balkans, I would like to underline the word'relative'. It is still a fragile region. I am thinking, for example, of the problem of recurring foreign fighters and the migration crisis. I am also thinking of Russia's increasing efforts to exert its influence in the region. A number of Members mentioned this point. Embedding Montenegro in the Euro-Atlantic network of institutions therefore contributes to further stabilisation of the region. That is the view of the Dutch Government and that is also the Dutch interest. Montenegro's accession is, in my opinion, a logical follow-up to the wider NATO strategy for the Western Balkans. Since the 1990s, NATO has made an important contribution to stability. Croatia, Slovenia and Albania joined earlier. It is in the Dutch interest, I think, that Montenegro should also be embedded in these structures. I think anyone who looks at the map can see that there is a geostrategic continuum. That's what everyone here said. I think it is indeed best to put that briefly. On 2 December 2015, Montenegro was invited to accession negotiations for NATO membership. So it had already been a long time: the EAP period. The Foreign Ministers signed the Accession Protocol on 19 May 2016. We've informed the Chamber about that. Members have said that they welcome the choice. All Members of Parliament have said: what does the country itself want? That's a core. They also asked whether Montenegro could make a military contribution. Isn't it just a receiver of security, but does it yield something? The question is whether accession is important for NATO. I think and hope that the Dutch Government can also convince the SP Group that this is indeed important. Montenegro's message is that it wants to be part of the Euro-Atlantic structure. The message from NATO is that the country is welcome. The message is also that NATO remains committed to open-door policy. NATO is willing to embrace countries that seriously reform their systems and which subscribe to NATO values. In this way, NATO encourages democratic reforms and defence reforms of prospective members of the Union. Montenegro's accession thus contributes to stability in a truly historically divided region, directly at the borders of the alliance. This is also in the interest of the Netherlands. I think this is at least as strong a message to countries that think differently. Sovereign and independent states, including Montenegro, have the right, in the opinion of the Dutch Government, to decide for themselves which organisations they want to belong to. Montenegro will become the 29th NATO member if it is ratified everywhere. There is currently no prospect of further expansion of the alliance in the very near future. The prospective members of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia and Georgia do not meet the conditions laid down. Among others, Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the reforms. Those are indeed essential. On 2 December 2015, Montenegro was invited to the accession negotiations for NATO membership. This has been preceded by an extensive six-year journey under the Membership Action Plan. Montenegro now meets the requirements of the NATO Treaty. Those reforms have therefore taken place. The country wants and can contribute to Euro-Atlantic security. 15 out of 28 allies have now ratified the accession protocol. There are many examples of this reform policy. I think it's really impressive. We have had a long-standing relationship with Montenegro, also within the framework of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. In answering the written questions, I have already addressed these reforms, both at EU and NATO level. They strengthen each other, too. I mention the special prosecutor's office and the anti-corruption agency, established for corruption cases and the fight against organised crime. I also mention the constitutional revision in 2013 and the adoption of a law for a national recruitment system for judges in 2015. The last election took shape under a new electoral law. According to ODIHR (Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights), fundamental freedoms are generally respected. NATO has carefully monitored and assessed this reform process. Montenegro has implemented the agreed reforms satisfactorily and in accordance with the commitments made with Montenegro; I have just mentioned a number of those reforms. In any case, NATO standards are now being met. What I find interesting is that, after these conditions have been completed, Montenegro has voluntarily committed itself to an additional package, because there were concerns among some allies, including the Netherlands, about issues such as media freedom and the rule of law. That was not a tough demand to join NATO, but it was agreed in early 2016 in the so-called programme of ongoing reforms. With this programme, Montenegro committed itself to continuing reforms in specified areas such as military capacity building and development of the rule of law. The EU accession process will further strengthen this. In view of the time of this debate, I shall not go into that further now. I really believe that Montenegro can make a positive contribution. It is a small country, but it is able to contribute to a strong NATO itself. Montenegro makes an important contribution to the alliance. The contribution to Afghanistan has already been mentioned by the MPs. Montenegro contributes to the current Resolute Support mission. The contributions show that Montenegro is fully committed to contributing to transatlantic security. Due to its geographical location, the Mediterranean is actually from Faro to Istanbul NATO area. That's important. The issue of political support was also raised. I would stress that Montenegro does not wish to become a member alone. Parliament has twice endorsed this course by means of resolutions. The parliamentary elections of 16 October, ten years after Montenegro's independence, were once again an important milestone to review. The winning parties are right behind the path of Euro-Atlantic integration. The new government led by Prime Minister Markovic has already indicated that NATO and EU accession are a strategic priority for this government. Part of the opposition also supports the NATO process. They are convinced that this path will enable a more stable and prosperous Montenegro. Montenegro is opting not only for the security guarantee that NATO membership entails, but also for a strong democratic Montenegro in which the rule of law is guaranteed. I have just mentioned a number of examples. Enlargement is independent of Russia. The cabinet believes that this is a choice of its own. Russia has threatened measures, but has not so far imposed any economic sanctions or other measures. Such measures would have no basis in international law. The Western Balkans are of strategic importance and it is regrettable that Russia is nevertheless trying to frame EU and NATO cooperation with the Balkan countries as an infringement of the so-called Russian sphere of influence. Meanwhile, Russia itself does not give any clarity about its actions or intentions in that region. In any case, we do not participate in thinking in terms of sphere of influence. Countries can decide for themselves. That is a democratic right. In this context, the Chamber asked, quite understandablely, earlier about the coverage of the alleged plans for an attack on the day of the election. Of course, the government takes these messages very seriously. Montenegro is currently completing the preliminary investigation and is, in its own words, receiving support from Serbia. I raised this in my talks with Montenegro's Foreign Minister. No charges have yet been filed against the three suspects detained in Montenegro. It is now up to the court in Montenegro to decide, and I have great confidence in that at the moment, in order to clarify what is happening and, if necessary, to prosecute. I have confidence in the Montenegrin structures and I consider that trust to be important. Montenegro can show that it has a functioning rule of law. It is not now for me to speculate on any interference by third countries in the events. The current investigation will hopefully clarify this. For example, it is communicated between the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Montenegro and the Netherlands. It is important to say that Serbia also respects Montenegro's independence and the Euro-Atlantic aspirations of its neighbouring country. This was also raised by Prime Minister Vučić. He said that Montenegro's rapprochement with NATO would not harm relations with Serbia. I think that's important to say. Mr Van Bommel has asked questions about 1990 agreements. "The Soviets agreed with the US and Germany in 1990 that there would be no eastward expansion of NATO. We forgot all this. Now we see the military infrastructure at our borders. New units of heavy weapons have been placed along our borders. We can see the fuss surrounding the fanatical process in Montenegro.'. That is a quote by Mr Lavrov and not by Mr Van Bommel. As you know, these 1990 agreements are denied, even by Gorbachev. That enlargement is also independent of Russia. The Western Balkans are of strategic importance. I made it clear this afternoon and in previous debates that the Russian Federation is not an enemy to the Dutch Government and that we do not want to go back to cold war thinking. That is certainly not the intention or the consequence of membership of NATO. Especially if so many years have gone by with the agreement of your Chamber, it cannot be that, although we also have an interest in the geostrategic continuity and sovereign desire of the Montenegrins, we are now suddenly saying that it cannot be because there will be any agreements that are vulnerable to the precise wording. We've changed that before. Then I'll get to the border disputes. It is important in itself that you mention that point. There's no problem with that. When it comes to NATO enlargement and good neighbourly relations, in good Dutch'relations between countries', an important criterion is the peaceful resolution of disputes. Montenegro fulfils this requirement according to the conviction of the Dutch Government. Mr Turner's criticism was particularly about Bosnia and not about Montenegro. There are differences or uncertainties about borders between almost all Balkan countries, but it is important that these differences are discussed peacefully in the Peaceful Settlement criteria. Even between stable NATO countries there are border differences. We just solved two of them, including one of the Eems-Dollard. There is also a discussion on some of the borders between Hungary and Romania. Croatia and Montenegro have set up a Joint Committee to discuss the Prevlaka dispute. This may be submitted to the International Court of Justice. I think that's very positive. With regard to the dispute over Sutorina between Bosnia and Montenegro, I have just noted that there was mainly criticism of Bosnia. Nevertheless, there is also a joint committee here. Mr De Roon asked questions about the costs of Montenegro's accession and ratification. Like NATO, I estimate that Montenegro's geographical footprint is limited, given the size of the country. It is expected that any support to Montenegro will take place within the current budget ceilings. I will be able to indicate that more precisely to the Chamber later, if there is a detailed cost statement in NATO's 2018-2022 multiannual plan. I understand the question of ratification. It makes perfect sense. But Montenegro will not deposit the instrument of ratification until all 28 allies have done so. That is the last legal step towards membership. In the meantime, the Montenegrin Parliament has already expressed broad support twice. Mr Knops asked whether the government was too cautious about the Russian Federation. I do not get that impression, given the comments made by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the position of the Netherlands, especially today. The government is very aware of Russia's broader geopolitics in the Western Balkans. I therefore believe that we should defend the sovereign right of countries to decide for themselves what they want. That is why this choice is being submitted to the Chamber today. NATO will not respond formally to threats. Moreover, the economic links between Russia and Montenegro are much more limited than is sometimes said. It is mainly about interests in tourism and real estate in the coastal towns. Moreover, these interests are falling due to the declining Russian economy and also because the reforms have made investments more transparent and therefore less attractive to some Russian investors. I just said what I said about the coup attempt. Out of respect for justice, I'm not going into that right now. I have every confidence in that. I thought I answered Members' questions, but that is not entirely the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u43	Probably almost all of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u44	That's correct: almost all of them. I asked a question about the reforms Montenegro has yet to implement by April. I asked the Minister if it would still be possible to say: deliver first so that we know for sure that it has been implemented and then ratify it? Now the Minister says he has every confidence in it. How is this process further monitored and how is the Court informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u45	There are two comments to be made on this. Montenegro already fulfils the conditions. These reforms have been implemented according to the preparation, first according to the EAP and then according to the reforms monitored since the signature. In addition, Montenegro also has an additional package at the request of the Netherlands. That's totally voluntary. This must also be strengthened in the following years, not only towards April, but also in monitoring with the European Union. I am quite prepared to keep the Chamber regularly informed of this. But this is no longer a condition for the Netherlands, because we are positive about the reforms that have been carried out. In fact, Montenegro is ready for accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u46	I want to get it straight. In the note on the report, the Minister literally says the following. Montenegro has committed itself to implementing reforms by April 2017. The government now has no reason to doubt that these reforms are not being completed in time. This suggests at least that they had not been completed at the time of writing this note on the basis of the report. I understand now that everything is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yes, but I have no problem keeping the Chamber informed next year of exactly how that goes. We welcome the reforms that need to be made for us, and for the Chamber, in order to be able to sign. However, it is a developing country, which does not yet meet a number of criteria related to EU accession. We had a number of points to do with the rule of law and the media. Reforms are continuing in these areas. Of course, I will keep the Chamber informed. Mr President, this brings me to the end of the answer to the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you very much. I'd like to proceed immediately with the second term. I am looking first at Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. I have to reach a conclusion in the second period, including, not only, on the basis of the Minister's reply. I listened to him very carefully. He said things that claim to me, but he also said things that raise questions again. Surely you cannot say on the one hand that you are not going to think in terms of spheres of influence in the Western Balkans and then say that the Western Balkans are strategically important? I think the latter is not so bad, especially when it comes to a small state like Montenegro. In any case, this is about an explanation by the Minister, by the Government, about the significance of membership: that is strategically important. You can't blame Russians for thinking in spheres of influence if you reserve that right. Then the division. The Minister cites the elections, but you could also look at the vote on the resolution. 60% then supported membership, so it was 60 to 40. So I think that is a serious discord. That is why there has been no support for the desire to reach a referendum. I admit that 60/40 is a clear result, but there is division. Pretending it's just a small group isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u50	I should like to say something, or perhaps I should like to say something, about Mr Van Bommel's qualification for a 60/40 result, which I could refer to yesterday's debate. I'm not gonna do that. I am looking for some of the arguments that remain for Mr Van Bommel to oppose this. It's really gonna be a bit of a search for the one argument that's still standing. Mr Van Bommel says that the Minister should not talk about spheres of influence. What the Minister said, namely that it is of strategic importance, I do not think we can deny. The fact that access to the Adriatic Sea is being increased is of strategic importance. I do not think this has anything to do with the sphere of influence, but simply with logistical accessibility and access to the sea. What else would the Minister say? That it doesn't matter? Yes, it is. Mr Van Bommel has listed a whole list in his first term. I ask him if there is one argument left to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u51	To pretend that access through Montenegro is suddenly of great strategic importance, it is situated next to Albania, which is already a member of NATO. I do have the division as an argument, because it is about a security organisation. This is not about a trade agreement with some political provisions. No. This is about security, including how to resolve conflicts and how the relationship with other countries is. I understand the question of, among other things, the Labour Party and the CDA regarding the sanctions announced by Russia. This may lead to escalation in a difference of opinion on orientation. The minister says he doesn't care about the possible consequences. The economic relationship between Montenegro and Russia is very limited, but it is indeed a concern. That is why the Labour Party is asking whether compensation is being considered. So these are real points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u52	Real points, real points. The question is, of course, whether these are the real points that weigh heavily enough for Mr Van Bommel to vote against. Let me just take it with me for a little while. Mr Van Bommel says: what does the coastal strip matter now, near the Adriatic Sea in Montenegro? Mr Ten Broeke just whispered to me in 'I didn't know that myself, but I do find it interesting that during the Yugoslavian war all Dutchbat's supply went through that coastal strip. That is crucial. I'm saying it wrong; I'm being corrected. It's gotta be "mede." It does not matter; I think that this is still an important argument from Mr Van Bommel. He says 60/40. That is an almost shocking uncertainty that Parliament has been talking about. Look at the election, I would like to tell Mr Van Bommel. Has this been a debate in the elections? Has this been a theme in the election? Has this led to heightened contradictions in that society? Where did he see that, except in the coup attempt, which is probably the evidence still unclear by Russian nationalists? Does he want to give in to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u53	During the election, it was a crossing station. Those are the facts. The orderality of things depends on it. That seems to me to be the answer to that question. And if access to the sea is important right now is just the question. It was indeed important when the card looked very different, but it is no longer so at the moment, especially now that Albania is a member of NATO. On the basis of an argument that may have played a role in the 1990s today, saying that it must be said that it is in our own interest that it has been taken from the sky. That's really out of the blue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u54	I should first like to go on with Mr Servaes, Mr Sjoerdsma. I think he wants to get on with the same thing. If there are any questions left after that, then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u55	I have the same point: the search for Mr Van Bommel's argument. I haven't found it yet. We discussed the well-known Sutorina issue in the first period. During the break, Montenegro's Ambassador explained once again that this issue was fully resolved in spring 2015. So it wasn't. We've lost it. Mr Van Bommel talked about division in Montenegro, but it was about a democratic decision. I cannot imagine a democratic party, such as the Socialist Party, questioning a democratic decision by a country. So there is only the possibility that Russia may be subject to sanctions, but I have just heard Mr Van Bommel say in his first term that he will not respond to statements from Moscow. I said: what a pleasant position this is! So I had three potentials, but I've just been able to cross them off. So the question is, what's the fourth? What else does Van Bommel have in his back pocket?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u56	Firstly, I do not think it is appropriate to refer to conversations with people who are unable to participate in the debate and to indicate their words. I would not do that if I were Mr Servaes, but now that it has been done, I have to respond to it, because that, of course, expresses Montenegro's position. In a border conflict there are two parties. I have acknowledged that Bosnia was something to blame here. That's just the facts. That is why the threat from the Americans of sanctions, of cessation of aid, also went towards Bosnia. This only shows that it was a serious conflict in 2015. Otherwise, the Americans will not be threatening to impose sanctions, just as the Russians are threatening to impose sanctions. Then I can say that I do not care very much what noise comes from Russia; it is used here in the Chamber. This is being asked for in the Chamber, among other things by the Labour Party. It was also requested in the written contribution. The government simply says: we are not going to speculate about any consequences and any actions by Russia. That may be a position, but if the Labour Party is then asked what the government is going to do if these sanctions are imposed and if compensation is offered, then it is indeed part of the debate and to take it seriously as an argument. It is therefore also important for our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u57	I am still trying to find the answer to my question: what is the decisive argument? And that's it, the last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u58	No, I'll give you some arguments. If...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u59	I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u60	Don't get mixed up. You may still ask your question. Then Mr Van Bommel can answer and then we go on to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u61	Then let me put the question to you. We all recognise the freedom, the sovereignty of independent countries to choose for themselves what their future is and what organization they are members of. They do so by democratic majority. That's the common ground we're leaving from. So you have to have a serious counter-argument to deviate from that. I just want to hear in one sentence what the serious counter-argument is on the basis of which the Socialist Party would be against this accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u62	I have a number of them: it is strategically irrelevant to NATO, there is indeed division in the country and my group takes the consequences for geopolitical relations seriously. This also applies to others, because I hear they are also concerned about Russia's possible sanctions. We take seriously the 2015 border dispute, which is being brushed away here, and that was resolved by the threat of sanctions from the Americans. Those are a number of arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u63	Did Mr Van Bommel talk in his first term about the border conflict with Bosnia and the sanctions? Or did he just mention Montenegro? When he talked about finance, did he talk about finances that would be withdrawn after a threat from the Americans towards Montenegro? Or did he also mention Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u64	In a conflict, there is always more than one party, because it is difficult to fight on your own. A border conflict implies you have a conflict with another party across the street. I have been absolutely clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u65	No, Mr Van Bommel, you are not, because if you wish to deal with a border dispute in a good way, you also mention the other side. You didn't do that in your first term. You had to be reminded of this in the answer given by the Minister, who you would take seriously today in your second term. One of the border conflicts does not appear to exist, because it has been resolved partly thanks to Montenegro. With regard to the second conflict, the focus is precisely on the country you have not mentioned. That would be at least... and then you blame me for a bagatel! Mr Van Bommel, there is nothing left of your reasoning tonight. I'm really inviting you to come up with another fifth reason. You're creative enough for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u66	How clear do you have to be about it? At least two parties are always involved in a conflict. There has been pressure from outside, from the Americans, needed. I said the same thing during my interruption. I did name it. Especially in the Balkans, a border dispute can be taken seriously. I agree with everyone who says: it is a sovereign right of every country to express its own wishes, to become party to a treaty and to become a member of an international organisation. That's undisputed. But there is no real threat to Montenegro. I haven't heard anyone say that here either. Montenegro must become a member so that collective security can apply to that country. I didn't say or hear that. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no urgency, need or desirability to extend NATO to Montenegro. That is why we will not support this enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u67	I would ask all spokesmen to speak through the chairman. Mr Ten Broeke, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr President, can I have that last argument repeated once more? Just one more time. We all know what comes out of it, but I want to hear that last argument one more time. Then Mr Van Bommel can also listen to himself. I do not understand that argument, but I think it is understood by very few colleagues here. The reasons for this have now been removed: the three mentioned by Mr Van Bommel and the fourth one he did not mention. But for the fifth reason, he's not coming. Can he give it one more time? What's the point of saying no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then I should repeat my entire second term. I have mentioned all the arguments: the division in the country, the geopolitical situation, the Russian threat, the border dispute, which Mr Ten Broeke says does not exist, and the strategic importance. I mentioned all those things. On this basis, I have said that, as far as I am concerned, there is no need, urgency or desirability to extend NATO to Montenegro.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Sjoerdsma waived his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. I hear here in the debate about the possibility that a third country would impose sanctions on Montenegro if that country joined the NATO alliance. I assume that Montenegro itself has thought about these kinds of consequences, has weighed them up and will take them on its own account. As spokesperson for the PVV, I do not see any reason to say here that we will then be supporting Montenegro financially. All things considered, I have to say that I do not see any major objections to Montenegro's accession. I do see a great strategic advantage in the location of that country. The PVV therefore has no objections to accession and will therefore support ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer and for the removal of the objections raised by a single colleague. For my group, there is no doubt whatsoever. It wasn't there before. Nevertheless, it is good to go over things again, because NATO enlargements cannot always be just a hammer piece here. In that sense, I would like to thank Mr Van Bommel for trying to dehammer it. Now that that has happened, I think we can say yes with conviction. My group does that. We will therefore agree to membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr. Chairman. I want to apologize. I was just saying that I'm going to miss Mr Van Bommel, but I have to say that I'm not going to miss his reasoning. I didn't think it was very strong today. Mr Van Bommel talked about division in the country. Yeah, if it's not 100% for it, then there's already division. But there was simply a sovereign majority for accession. I respect his reasoning, but frankly, I don't understand it. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. It will be clear that we wholeheartedly support Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This creates obligations on the part of Montenegro but also on our part; we are well aware of that. However, there has been an orderly process. We too are confident that it will be all right. It is precisely at this time of complexity that it is important for the eastern flank of the alliance to allow countries that decide and meet the criteria to be allowed to strengthen NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Servaes waived his second term. The Minister has the floor for a number of final remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u75	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for its positions, for its agreement, but also for the difference of opinion in the second term. Let me say this. First of all, it is important to highlight now that an overwhelming majority of the Dutch parliament is in favour of Montenegro's NATO membership. The government believes that this is important and positive. We appreciate that, too. Of course, it may not be of strategic importance that the SP Group does not participate, but it is important to highlight that. I must honestly say that we are slowly living in a time of fact-free politics. I have every respect for all kinds of arguments. You can be for or against that. But I really didn't understand anything about this. I call it strategic importance mixing with spheres of influence. Yeah, the Dutch coastal strip isn't that long either. Nevertheless, it is a strategic interest that the Netherlands is a member of NATO. I also mention the infantilisation and humiliation of the Montenegrins, who want NATO membership by majority. Then say: The land is divided. That's really fact-free politics. There have been two elections. There are people who agree. You just mentioned that 60%. And then you say, "The country is divided." Yeah, that's how I know a few more. For example, the coastal strip is too short, so let's get out of NATO right away. Your party is in favour of NATO membership. Your party has confessed to this. And when it comes to it, you say to another country: yes, too bad, small coastal strip, strategically irrelevant. And then it's not even about spheres of influence. What spheres of influence? Have we really ended up in European politics at a time when Mr Lavrov is somehow setting our agenda on this issue? You almost quoted him literally. I'm really excited about this. This is a serious development, a development that we cannot accept in this country. And then there are the border differences: you know that what you are saying here is nonsense. There are two committees working on this. You're acting like there's a new war going on there and NATO's been withdrawn there. With that kind of fact-free policy, we really need to stop in this Parliament. You may disagree on NATO membership and you may say what you think of NATO. Your party is for that. You're coming in for a misdemeanor, and you're just not gonna join us. That's okay, but I don't appreciate it. I can only say that it is a pity that at least one important group in the House does not want to support the vast majority of Montenegrins in their right to safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u76	That right is not disputed. We'll make our own decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u78	And continue to pretend that this border conflict is a non-existent conflict... Why was American pressure needed, with sanctions from the American side to ensure that people in Bosnia thought differently? It was definitely something serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u79	You obviously need American arguments here, which you don't normally need. I myself was chairman of the NATO Assembly. Well, I can tell you, it was fun, but it wasn't that important. To drag those arguments into a border conflict that has a very different background... Come on, Mr Van Bommel. I know you better than this. If you just want to say 'yes, I'm not getting this through my group' or 'I think it's more important what Russia or America thinks than the Montenegrins', then that's okay. I'm just saying I'm sorry. I would have hoped that in this important debate you might make a different assessment, but I have not been able to convince you. That is entirely due to my persuasiveness in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u80	I do not contradict the Minister on this last point. The point is that we must not let ourselves be guided by the valued Montenegrins, either by Russia or by others. We have our own balance to make and all the arguments will have to be weighed up: geopolitical interests, economic interests, strategic interests, whatever you want to call them. In this Chamber we have a balance to make, and I do so on the basis of our own arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u81	With all due respect, you don't. You're doing exactly the opposite. You argue that the Montenegrins are divided. You're arguing about what the Americans would think. You're giving a different argument about what the Russians would think. You are the one who does not look at the Dutch interest but brings in all kinds of arguments which are contrary to your own reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u82	I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u83	Exactly. I'll give you the opportunity to lock up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u84	Then the Minister just didn't understand me. I refer to the attitude of the Americans and the pressure of the Americans on a border conflict to show that that border conflict is something. I refer to the reaction of the Russians and their threats of sanctions, because it is obviously something that has geopolitical consequences. That is what we are concerned about! Not that I'm being guided, I'm just saying that these are important aspects that need to be taken into account. That is at the heart of the discussion as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr President, I always appreciate the debates with Mr Van Bommel, but I do not think we can convince each other this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-21-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you very much. I will suspend the meeting for dinner break, then we will continue with the debate on Syria.
