ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u1	We shall continue with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget. I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good to have this possible final debate with this foreign minister. It is a passionate and driven minister who travels around the world and interferes with Syria, Iraq, Ukraine, Mali, Afghanistan, the refugee crisis, the MH17 and so on. We must, of course, wait and see how the elections will proceed, but today is a good time to take stock and look forward to the 2017 budget. This minister has given a boost to issues such as religious freedom and freedom of expression, including the extension of religious pilot projects that can now be extended to all countries where it is relevant. These are foreign policy issues that the Christian Union attaches great importance to. In order to emphasise this once again, following last year's amendment, we have again tabled an amendment aimed at funding religious freedom projects from the Human Rights Fund. They may be people who are persecuted because of their religion or family members who need to be supported. I hope the Minister can support that amendment. I realise that it is difficult for the Minister to look ahead, but I would ask him to say that this will be financed structurally. It is now funded by the Human Rights Fund. I understand that funding for these specific religious freedom projects in recent years has not really been a problem, but we want to avoid having to table amendments every year. Can the Minister undertake to provide structural funding from the Human Rights Fund? I should like to remind you of the worst crisis at the moment: the events in northern Iraq and Northern Syria and the position of religious and ethnic minorities there. That's where ISIS keeps horrible homes with regard to the Jezidis. It's public knowledge. But I also mention the Christian minorities who have lived there for years and centuries and are now being driven out and murdered. Although it is said by this cabinet that genocides are not recognised by parliaments, it seems to me desirable that we should at least ask the external international legal adviser to find out whether there is indeed genocide on those religious and cultural minorities. Is the Minister prepared to do so? We have, of course, dealt extensively with the human rights note, but a trade delegation has now gone to Indonesia. We also drew attention to Indonesia during the last human rights debate. There are concerns about West Papua, about the Moluccas and about the Christian governor of Jakarta, against whom a trial is pending because of a blasphemy case. He has already expressed his own apologies about this, should that be understood as such. Are these issues currently on the agenda of that trade delegation? I have, of course, also heard the Prime Minister's reply. He says: no, we are not talking about human rights. I hope, however, that this Minister, through his inner lines, will be able to denounce this and depart from the intentions of the VVD Group, which says: let trade simply be trade and do not interfere with human rights everywhere. I'd like to hear a response on that point. Last time I spoke about the Rohingya in Myanmar. I understand that this matter is also of concern to the Minister. He also mentioned them during the opening of the Dutch embassy in Myanmar. Will it be the Netherlands' commitment, now that Myanmar is moving in the right direction, to explicitly raise the issue of the protection of this religious Islamic minority through the Security Council? Then there's the relationship with Turkey. It just seems to get worse and worse. Fortunately, the coup failed, but perhaps you should note that what is happening now is almost as bad for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We see that fellow MEPs are going to prison and that the media have already been silenced. We also see Turkey housed in northern Syria. I have read what this Minister said at the Hague campus speech on security in the world. He said that Erdogan's expansion drive and the so-called neo-Ottoman pursuit would pose a risk to the Dutch security situation. I've heard it from the media, so if it's not quoted correctly, the Minister has to say it. It is very commendable that the Minister makes this so explicit with such clear terms. I agree with him, but I do wonder what consequences he would have for this kind of clear language, for example for relations with Turkey, accession talks, visa liberalisation and possibly NATO membership. The Minister made his statements in the context of NATO membership. What did he mean by that? Should we reconsider Turkey's NATO membership? I would like to hear a response from the Foreign Minister to his statements last week. Expansion drive also translates into the attack on northern Iraq and the interference in northern Syria. Two weeks ago, together with the Labour Party, we visited the women's movement in Rojava. They have asked for support. They have carried out a study commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see how we could support the women's movement in Northern Syria. Is this Minister aware of this? I assume so, because it happened on behalf of the State Department. Does he see any possibility of implementing part of the motion adopted here to support the Syrian Democratic Council in line with this? Of one part of the motion for a resolution which involves people in the negotiations, the Minister said: I will certainly do so. I would like to hear the Minister on the implementation of the second part, the concrete support of the Syrian Democratic Council, that great club of ethnic and religious minorities that formed a government there, in the process of administrative reconstruction. The European Parliament will probably also come forward tomorrow with a decision to suspend negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union. The refugee deal is constantly referred to as a showstopper: do not, do dangerously, then we get the refugees back this way. But it is no longer possible to defend the refugee deal. That refugee deal was fine to support Turkey in the reception of refugees, but it should never have been linked to visa liberalisation and accelerated accession. Now the European Commission has also come forward with a report on the refusal of the Turkish rapporteur. The day before yesterday other MEPs who wanted to enter the country were refused entry. What is the next step of this government, including in European Councils, to finally put Turkey on hold? Should we wait until the death penalty has actually been introduced? Or are we saying that enough is enough? Last week we had an HDP member here, who told us that Erdogan only listens to one thing, namely a fist on the table. I ask this minister: how does he see that fist on the table? What instruments do we have to make it clear to Turkey that there is no good doing business anymore at the moment? Then I come to Israel. The stalemate in the peace talks continues. This is why the Christian Union is again tabling an amendment this year, together with the SGP, to encourage the reconciliation projects, the peace projects, from the bottom up. Last year the Chamber gave a great deal of support to this and I hope it will be possible to do so again this year. I also hope that this Minister will give us a positive opinion. We have also tabled an amendment to reduce the payments of Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons by 1 million. This concerns the total payments made by the Netherlands. With this reduction, after so many motions, we would finally send a signal that it will not only be a matter of warnings, but that it will also have to be translated into financial consequences. I come to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (BDS). I have read the letter and the answers, but it is still not quite clear to me what the Minister means. I see a tension between freedom of expression on the one hand and the fact that the government does not want direct funding of the BDS movement on the other. However, I also see a grey zone there. However, I would like more clarity from the Minister on this matter. Does this mean that direct funding of all projects is not possible and is stopped? Does this mean that the Netherlands is not going to? And what does that mean for the indirect finances of organisations that we support, but which use that support again to finance the BDS movement and the organisations that do so? Can the Minister respond to that? It is no easy task at this time to be Foreign Minister, in a world with so many conflicts and so many uncertainties. Finally, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the Minister, but also for the many diplomats and staff. They work day and night with heart and soul for the defence of human rights in the world. I wish these diplomats, the staff and the minister much wisdom and God's protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u3	I am missing something in Mr Voordewind's speech. He raised the issue of Israel and the Palestinian problem quite extensively. However, we have met Mr Voordewind in previous debates as someone who considers the settlements to be part of Israel. Judea and Samaria also belong to Israel. But I actually miss the position of his party, the position expressed in the Christian Union's party programme. Perhaps Mr Voordewind could explain that position on these settlements in this plenary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u4	I do not know exactly what Mr Sjoerdsma is referring to. Not only does our 2017 election programme say that the Chisten Union is also in favour of a peace process and negotiations that could lead to a two-state solution, but that was also in previous election programmes. In addition, we say that Jerusalem is a simple capital. I've been saying that for ten years now. So that can't be a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yeah, that's right, but not quite. Let me quote from Mr Voordewind's election programme. He certainly knows it by heart, but he does not want to mention the following here in this Chamber. The electoral programme states that Israel must work, in view of the interests of the Palestinians, with regard to settlement policy. In other words, the Netherlands must stop this settlement policy. That's what it says very clearly. That's what your own party writes, Mr Voordewind. But in the Chamber all the time you say that settlements are an integral part of Israel. I therefore ask Mr Voordewind: what is the position of the Christian Union today? Is that the position of Mr Voordewind? Or is that the position expressed in the Christian Union election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u6	Our position is clear and clear, but I shall repeat it again. Then we'll go back to the Oslo process. At that time it was agreed that both Israel and the Palestinians would have to comply with a number of conditions if it were to reach agreement. Then the route to A, B and C areas was determined. At that time there was no agreement on the position of Jerusalem as the capital. But so far Israel has been ruled by the Oslo process in the C regions. This concerns governance and security. If there is natural growth in these areas, which manage Israel, then it is also natural that they can be built there to provide shelter for those people. We have always said that it does not apply in the A areas. This also applies because of the Oslo process. In the B-areas there could be outposts about which we say: if they are illegal, the judge will be responsible. It has often occurred that the judge gave the Palestinians the right to do so and had to disappear such an outpost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u8	Then I can only hope that the members of the Christian Union will be watching today because they can see that Mr Voordewind is refusing to implement the Christian Union's electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u9	I wholeheartedly support the electoral programme on this point. We have an eye for the fate of the Palestinians. We have also supported here earlier plans to encourage confidence-building measures to both sides, for example as regards the freedom of movement of the Palestinians. But we also support the Oslo agreements, which clearly describe the route for peace and also the three areas that are currently being used. They must also be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. With the election of Trump as President of the United States, we have a situation that is characterised by extremely dubious populists to the west and also to the east of Europe, which is actually crumbling further and further. That's not an image to cheer up about. In Syria there is now a mass murder in Aleppo. That could be the harbinger of the solution Putin sees ahead and Trump will tolerate. Then we won't get rid of Assad. Then the international community has nothing more to offer the Sunni majority. Does the Minister agree with me that this gloomy picture of Syria is becoming increasingly realistic? You can bomb ISIS away, I think that's going to happen, but that doesn't mean the Syrians have the rule of law, the future or opportunities. The problem of the flow of refugees could become even greater rather than smaller. What is the Minister's response to that? When we look at Iraq, we see some hope. The Minister has said a number of times, partly at my insistence, that we are working on a post-IS strategy. Still, it's vague. I am very curious to see if the Minister could be a little more specific. What is the strategy? To what extent do we really agree on this? Is there a really serious strategy? With Trump, the chance of lasting peace between Israel and Palestine seems farther away than ever. Obama and his ministers have criticized the expansion of settlements in sharp terms, but that pressure was not enough. Now that pressure's gone, there's a fear that nothing's going to change at all. Does the Minister share my fear of this situation, that even here the matter is not progressing? Will the Netherlands and other European countries only be allowed to compensate for the damage caused by the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories, when there is no longer any chance of peace? Can we still prevent the EU from being demoted to the funder of Netanyahu and Trump's hopeless policies? Uncertainty about US military guarantees can also destabilise Europe further. European cooperation in the field of foreign affairs is therefore more necessary than ever before. We really need to be open and clear about that. We really have to choose that. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are taking steps in this respect. The Minister embraces the Global Strategy for European foreign and defence cooperation. But even if only small steps are taken, a number of right-wing groups, of course, the PVV, the VVD, the CDA and the SP..................................................................................................................................... Even before the term is mentioned, a point is made. The smallest steps are opposed from the outset in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr Grashoff's reflexes gave me the impression that he had a mild medical condition, but that was not the case. The point is that I hear Mr Grashoff saying that we need to work more together. Very good to hear that from GroenLinks. At the same time, GroenLinks has not made any proposal to strengthen security, to invest more in defence and to cooperate more. Because if you want to work together, you're gonna have to invest. How can Mr Grashoff combine the fine words he used here earlier with the lack of action by GroenLinks on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u12	The actions are not in strengthening the defence budget; that is the eternal mantra of Mr Knops. By the way, Mr Knops represents the party that made the hardest cuts in defence when she was in the government. So he actually has very little right to speak. That's what he's constantly getting pushed into by others, and I'd like to join that choir. When it comes to Europe as a defence force during the defence budget, Mr Knops could have discussed this with me too. Europe is the second largest investor in defence, with a higher amount than China and Russia. But we don't make any sense because we don't work together. That cooperation stands in the way of Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u13	It's always very nice to talk to me about that. Again, I didn't run away from it. But if what GroenLinks wanted had happened, we wouldn't even have had a military force, at least not by any name. I'm glad that didn't happen. Mr Grashoff says here that we must work together, but I insist that he does not add any action to that. He doesn't say, "If you're gonna work together, you're gonna have to make an effort." Working together without bringing value to you is not a collaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's bullshit. We're spending $7.5 billion on defense. If you use those resources in cooperation, you spend them more efficiently and more effectively. Let me defend something of the defence policy of this cabinet: naval cooperation with Belgium, or military cooperation with Germany, including its deepening. Those are very interesting things that are effective. That's how you handle resources better and how you can use them more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u15	This discussion has taken place in detail in the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u16	I agree with the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u17	But that discussion is also very prominent here. At the State Department, we make choices from which also Defense gets its marching orders. GroenLinks has submitted a counter-budget to demolish 200 million from the Defense Department. We have put this country back on its feet and now goes from every extra euro that is earned €0.60 to Defence. That was all stopped by GroenLinks. Mr Grashoff then comes here to tell us a tearful story about his support for European defence cooperation. Then I would like to hear from him what his attitude has been in the JSF dossier, where European defence cooperation is at stake. What is Mr Grashoff's attitude when we buy new frigates with the Belgians? Does he say yes to that, too? Does he also say yes to cooperation with the Germans when it comes to mechanized brigades? No, there's no answer from GroenLinks everywhere. Mr Grashoff does not yet have the beginning of an answer to that cooperation. If he can commit himself today to the principle that cooperation in Europe means what the Netherlands is doing at the moment, while his party is advocating something else, namely a European army, I say: abandon it, then he can start serious European defence cooperation with people like Mr Knops and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u18	In my view, Mr Ten Broeke was not in the defence budget; that was Mr Teeven. Otherwise, he didn't listen properly. I'm just gonna peel it off and say this. Does GroenLinks support the collaboration with the Belgians and therefore also the joint purchase of frigates? Yes. Does GroenLinks support cooperation with Germany and the further integration of military components? Yes, that is the logical consequence of my plea for international cooperation. I explicitly said in the defence budget debate that deepening with neighbouring countries is essential and interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u19	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u20	Your Secretary of Defense was very pleased with that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u21	Is Mr Grashoff therefore prepared to draw the consequences from his own words and to distance himself here today from that idiotic notion of a European army, which GroenLinks is constantly advocating? Because that does not follow from the argument. That is cooperation through the Europe of the blue flag with those twelve yellow stars. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u22	In fact, it is an absurd and somewhat schizophrenic attitude on the part of the VVD when it says that we want to work together in Europe, but we do not want European defence cooperation. That is a sort of semantic debate in which Mr Ten Broeke stays exactly where he should not be, namely: I do not really dare to choose; I belong to a party that is a little poisoned with the Euroscepticism of the PVV and actually does not dare to go for European cooperation on foreign and defence matters. This while he actually knows that's the only course we can go in this evil outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u23	I can hear the Muppetshow going on behind me. However, this is something to be critical of, that attitude of GroenLinks in this matter. Mr Grashoff says, and that is quite right as far as I am concerned, that in these difficult times we must move towards a European army, given the enormous strength that we could build there in relation to what we now have. But a European army can only be built if you have something to offer yourself. I do not see Mr Grashoff delivering anything on that point. In fact, he cuts 200 million from the budget and that at a time when the Commander of the Armed Forces says that the erosion of defence is beginning to take dangerous forms. I would ask him to reflect on the following. Given the threat of Russia, of the Islamic State, of the break-up of states in the ring around Europe, is this indeed a sensible attitude of GroenLinks? My answer would be no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u24	It is nice that we are going to do a whole piece of the discussion of the defence budget again, because I completely fell into it then, but the answer is very clear: GroenLinks is not cutting back on defence, but out of the 300 million that the cabinet pushes, we have raised another 200 million. So we are stepping up by 100 million instead of 300 million. However, this is not the essence, because this is all small beer. The point is that you spend your resources efficiently, and so you look for the opportunities to do so. I think that Mr Sjoerdsma and I are really on the same side in that regard. Mr Sjoerdsma is also aware of this and I think he agrees that if you take the sum of all those defence budgets in Europe, you will have the second largest investor in defence. The essence of this issue is not that we need more money, but that we are going to spend it well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u25	The essence is natural and-and. The essence is more spending and better working together. You're gonna increase the impact force. A united European army is no use to you with all the little army that just can't do anything. I have the impression that Mr Grashoff also has his own Members, his own constituents, in mind. GroenLinks' website says: as far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Netherlands should be able to sustain large-scale 3D missions for a long time. That is not the case now. So what do you do? Mr Grashoff then says: I will remove 200 million and I will pretend that this is not a cut. Of course it is. Then be honest with me now. You are in favour of development cooperation; we support you in that; you are in favour of diplomatic services; we support you in that. But you're naive when it comes to defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u26	With the defence budget that we now have, if we use it properly, we will be able to do very well. That is what we have to work on. It is only when international cooperation is properly established that you can look at the level of the budgets, but it should not be done in the opposite order. I think that would be a better, more sensible and more strategic perspective, and I also think D66. Once again, the sum total of the defence budgets of the EU Member States is the second largest defence investor in the world. You'd keep that in mind if you looked at budget increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u27	After all, I am curious about the statement that GroenLinks is well equipped with this defence army, with this budget of Defense. When I hear the statements of the Commander of the Armed Forces and when I see the reports of the Court of Auditors, an independent institute that also looks at Defence, without having a political interest in it, I can only conclude that we cannot stay strong in Mali, that we may have to reduce our efforts in Iraq and that we really cannot get away with this now. So why are you convinced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u28	Making choices, making choices and making choices. Again, we're doing the defense budget on this one. There are insufficient choices in defence. We're trying to maintain a defense that must be able to do anything. It's been like that for years. These choices are not made, but they could be made within the framework of international cooperation at EU level, in particular with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u29	It is clear that GroenLinks does make choices, namely to cut back where this cabinet and the Chamber have finally taken responsibility for getting the defence force on strength. This can also be done very well if you keep the army within the barracks in the Netherlands and no longer participate in international missions. Then you'll get out of your way with this army.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Voordewind and I disagree on this point. The Netherlands participates in many missions, more missions than GroenLinks has supported. Indeed, we do not think that some missions are very useful, others are. Choices will also have to be made. I believe we're on 28 missions. That should be one less us. As far as I'm concerned, it's about spending your resources in a good way, rather than calling for more resources to go in a row. I do know a few other things where more resources need to go: education and development cooperation. Those are the things we are talking about. Mr Voordewind also knows that priorities must be set. We do, and so does Mr Voordewind. I think it's interesting to look at that, because there are more similarities than differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u31	Last interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u32	The problem is not so much that GroenLinks is once again opposed to missions, but that GroenLinks is often for and against missions. I stood here when a predecessor of Mr Grashoff, after months of urging the Chamber to do something about the threatening genocide of Benghazi, the Chamber went along with it, and the government also rejected the Article 100 debate, as with Kosovo. First GroenLinks was before, then against and then again before. Benghazi? First for, then against. Iraq and Syria? A little for, a little against. You can argue for a common European approach, but if you as a party cannot put forward one position, your military will ultimately be the victims. That's the big problem. That is what I would like to tell Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u33	I think that Mr Ten Broeke has quite a point to make here. It may be more consistent for a longer time, that is absolutely true. If there is anything that this defence and foreign spokesperson of GroenLinks has done, it is to make sure that we do not do so anymore. I hope we will continue to do so in the future. Yes is yes and no is no and not something that stagnates in between. At this point, it is important that we first weigh very carefully what we do and what we do not want to stand for. But, Mr Ten Broeke, in all honesty, I am still proud to be a member of a party that feels and has difficulty with the dilemma surrounding missions. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u34	I can only congratulate Mr Grashoff on his party's history of missions. We have also experienced GroenLinks bravely in difficult times, when she supported missions. In this respect, I look forward to working with him and perhaps Mr Van Ojik after the elections, because this compliment is also due to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u35	That's a perfect little bridge. Consistency is a great good and in any case worth striving for. GroenLinks is very often on the same side as the Labour Party when it comes to international politics, but I am a little confused. When Van Ojik entered the Chamber, he set out a line of internationalism, openness, search for cooperation and willingness to say "we see the risks, but we are in." Since he left, I think I see a tendency in the opposite direction. We've been talking about the cuts in defense. After all, 200 million less is austerity. We saw it in the trade agreements. The position of "yes, if" suddenly became "no is no." We also saw it in the recent discussion about the mission in Libya, when even the SP was literally on board, but GroenLinks fell off on the other side. If that's the new consistent line, I'm worried. So I wonder: what is the new line?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have just made it clear that there is no new line in this respect. We have followed a consistent line during this reign. I hope to continue it in particular. In each of these missions, we have looked extremely closely at questions such as "what makes sense?" And "what is realistic and what can you actually achieve?'. There have been two issues on the subject of missions. The first was on the Libya mission, which is very short and, as far as we are concerned, really not productive. We are threatening to cooperate in human rights violations by a Libyan non-functioning coastguard. A week later, the press said that the Coast Guard was once again suspected of abuses, as Mr Servaes also knows. That message appeared, while a week before we had been in the process of reaching a Chamber decision just to take part in that mission. A week later, that Libyan Coast Guard came back to the news extremely negative; that is not a good thing. The second issue was the extension of the mission from Iraq to Syria. The Chamber spent a year discussing questions about bombing Syria. In the end, months later, when the coalition parties were embarrassed, we heard that there had been no bombings in Syria; that was not even technically possible. When it comes to seriously weighing up a decision on a mission, you have to say that it has been a mockery. I am still happy that we did not agree to this enlargement for several reasons. These are just as concrete examples. Mr Servaes also mentioned trade agreements; that is a completely different story, and Mr Servaes knows it as well as I do. I have repeatedly indicated this and I keep saying: as far as I am concerned, please, but good. Trade agreements in which trade and economic growth are above working conditions and the environment should not be applied. I think it would be logical if those criteria were certainly supported by the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u37	The latter is absolutely so. That is precisely why we have always been committed to improvements, but that is the difference. At GroenLinks, I see a more inward-looking attitude among this group chairman, which worries me. There will be a former MEP at GroenLinks on the list of candidates. Mr Van Ojik is experiencing a wonderful return. I hope that means that GroenLinks is looking at this again with an open mind and that she is also willing to take a risk here and there. You're on a mission to train a Coast Guard because you're not satisfied with how that Coast Guard works right now and because you're very worried about it. You are committed internationally not to accept the world as it is, but to improve it. I would love it if GroenLinks would show that sound again more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u38	I will not even let Mr Servaes, whom I am very high on say that we would have an inward look because we are critical of the way trade agreements or missions are concluded. I'm not gonna let that talk me into it. I would like to discuss in every way the content of each of the individual examples in order to get very clear why you do and why you shouldn't do something. Together with Mr Servaes, we were in favour of the agreement with Ukraine, because we felt that it could contribute. Together with Mr Servaes, we have finally supported the original mission in Iraq, which we fully support and follow. If you're out there, you have to stay there, and you have to keep taking responsibility, like I said. That is a consistent line and I think we share it. But if you wipe a critical consideration of this kind of thing at random and say "it's a bit of an inward look," I think you're doing an analysis of lickvestje. After this interruption, I'm gonna have to get back on my feet. I'm moving on to energy. It is quite right that it is one of the priorities in the European Union's Global Strategy. With our largest energy supplier, Russia, we have, to say the least, said 'a difficult relationship'. There are lingering conflicts and, in fact, there is growing awareness that we are dealing with a rather aggressive regime that is increasingly doing things around us that cannot stand the light of day. The government is increasingly expressing itself, but does not commit or does not provide sufficient action. One of the most important things is the very important geopolitical power Putin possesses with its gas and oil. It is time for the European Union to speak with one voice in the energy sector, to negotiate gas contracts jointly so that the Netherlands does not say that you do not have an understanding of this, as is happening at the moment, and also to make strategic energy choices together and to ensure that this energy independence is achieved as quickly as possible, not suddenly from today to tomorrow but very quickly over the coming years. Is the Minister prepared to consult with his colleagues in the EU in order to get this strategic energy reorientation off the ground? And does the Minister agree with me that we need to get rid of that crazy gas roundabout strategy as soon as possible? The further deterioration of rights and freedoms in Turkey really does shake the deal with that country. Refugees fall into poverty, children still do not receive education, Turkey intervenes independently and independently in Iraq and Syria, and Erdogan's regime becomes more repressive every day. Is the European commitment to human rights and good governance still being maintained in this situation, or should we gradually become really blackmailed by Erdogan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u39	Madam President. Another 70 years of peace in the Netherlands, after the end of World War II. In a way, we are spoiled by it, looking at many other countries in this world. It sometimes seems that peace and security are the most normal thing in the world for us, even though there are threats of attacks. Yet we know that it is not. Ask the Iraqi family, who has lived in a refugee camp in northern Iraq since the flight from ISIS, or the Nigerian Marian, whose husband was killed before her eyes by Boko Haram, for refusing to become a Muslim as a Christian. In the light of their suffering, our efforts for peace, security and prosperity are all the more urgent. Looking at the geopolitical situation, I would first of all ask the Minister about his view of the consequences of Trump's election on the relationship between the US and major powers such as China and Russia, but also on the relationship with the EU. What concerns are there? They have already been discussed extensively, but perhaps this should also be looked at from the other side: what opportunities are there for getting things done that are in the Dutch and the common interest? Does the Minister agree that security and defence cooperation within NATO should remain a priority over defence cooperation at EU level? There is a lot of misery in this world, but fortunately there are also good and encouraging developments. The Minister himself was very involved in the peace agreement in Colombia. That seemed to be the result of a referendum in which a majority said no to the result. Do I understand correctly that there is another agreement at hand now? Can I ask the Minister what lessons he can draw from the fact that he has now managed to take such a step after so many efforts that have not actually been successful and after decades of internal conflict? I hope that we can learn lessons from this for other conflicts in this world. In the Middle East, even in a recent visit to Israel, a UNESCO resolution, for example, denies the historical links between the Jews and the Temple Mount and is full of all kinds of anti-Israeli language, puts a lot of bad blood and harms Israelis' confidence in the organs of the United Nations. In that sense, the damage is quite considerable. The idea is that international law has actually been so polluted by politics that there is little reference to it. That is why I would ask the Minister to reflect on this: does he see more opportunities for dealing with this in a much more balanced way within the UN? We welcome the further strengthening of relations with Israel in the fields of agriculture, trade and innovation, but also in the fight against terrorism. I am curious to see what specific ideas and intentions exist. What does not contribute to cooperation and peace is the financial support of groups promoting the boycotting of Israel. We have stated in a motion that we do not think that state aid is desirable, not because the constitutional right would be lacking to develop and express certain views which are not in line with national policy, but above all because this support could undermine the objectives of the policy. Then you support with one hand something that is broken down with the other hand. That is why the question is whether the Minister is still prepared to implement the motion adopted by a majority. The answers that we have now received also state that there is no direct funding, but that the cabinet does not really have a message that the Chamber believes that indirect funding should be stopped. So it's just gonna go on. I would now like to sum up a bit harshly, but I am curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. There is also little progress in addressing the payments of Palestinian terrorists in prisons. This has been discussed endlessly and the result is that funding is no longer carried out through the Palestinian Authority but through the PLO. That is very lean as a result of the justified resistance to it. That is why we supported Mr Voordewind's amendment. I wonder what can be done about this. Looking at the wider region, I welcome the diplomatic and military commitment to reducing ISIS in Iraq and Syria. We have also supported this. We also see that a great deal of humanitarian effort is needed for reception in the region. What is the scope of other countries' humanitarian efforts? I think that the Netherlands is paying much and rightly attention to this, but what possibilities are there for involving other countries and allowing them to take more responsibility? I also agree with the questions on agreements with other countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. Let us not focus solely on Turkey. A realistic foreign policy that represents national interests does not exclude the promotion of the weaker or minorities. Mr Ten Broeke addressed the question of the merchant and the reverend. To be honest, I've had a little bit of fun with that. We both have merchants and vicars in our constituency. Good vicars are extremely realistic and know what is going on, and good merchants also know their social responsibility. It is old senseless talk to set them against each other and also to set interests and values against each other. Shouldn't you say that a mind ethic that doesn't take account of the consequences of action is the wrong way to go, as I understand Mr Ten Broeke's point, but that is precisely the ethical responsibility I am using Max Weber's well-known distinction from his Politik as Beruf's something that we can expect from all countries? Then all of a sudden, interests and values get very close together. Shouldn't we get a little out of those old trenches of the merchant and the reverend and move towards a more comprehensive approach in which values and interests are not contradictory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr Ten Broeke, a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. I am directly addressed by Mr Van der Staaij, and I would naturally like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u42	It was a compliment, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u43	Sure, but compliments also have to be accepted. I have avoided the words of the pastor and merchant in the booklet to which Mr Van der Staaij referred, because it is indeed a completely worn out path. I know a lot of good merchants in the municipality of Rijssen, where there are a lot of vicars. I also reject Weber's Gesinungsethik. It's accountability ethics. It is mainly looking at the effect of your actions, but there is nothing against that there can be a moral motivation behind the action. I believe that this is also central to what I am saying. If we can find each other on that, I may have found another ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u44	Of course, but I do insist that we formulate as precisely as possible what we think of it. Otherwise there will sometimes be a discussion that leads nowhere. Indeed, you haven't used the words "the merchant and the minister" anymore. But when we talk about realistic or morally motivated, I also think that is a sham contradiction. In fact, I think that through that band of responsibility ethics the consequences of your actions also play an important role, the reality, and that from the point of view of reality you do not have to abandon morality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u45	May I then ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he shares my view that, although successive Dutch governments have generally witnessed as much realpolitik as possible, you see in the Chamber a declining support for that. It's endless many wishes that are stacked together.We've been through this last week, and they have very little to do with what the Netherlands can really do and what the Netherlands can really achieve. If you shoot at anything, you're not gonna hit anything. So if you really want to have a moral compass, to quote Mr Grashoff's words, you must be able to arrive somewhere with the ship. For that it is necessary to look at the effects of our actions, and I therefore note that there is decreasing scope for realpolitik in this Chamber. That is the urgency I tried to emphasise in my booklet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u46	I welcome Mr Ten Broeke and have often done so in the past in the sense that we are doing our best here to say as clearly and as clearly as possible that we do not agree with anything, without this leading to anything. I will not ask the Foreign Minister how many times he has raised a point in contact with a country and whether it has happened at every meeting. I would rather have the confidence that you stand and go for the same cause and that you will also use the opportunities that arise in practice. And we also need a generous margin for the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'm moving on. In this context, I come up with a number of concrete things. Will the Netherlands continue to use reconciliation initiatives with respect for the interests and security of minorities such as Jezidis and Christians on the Nineveh plain in order to plan for the post-ISIS era in accordance with previous motions? Given the unrest in countries such as Ethiopia and Nigeria, I also ask the Minister to continue to support the poor and vulnerable under religious persecution in the areas of security, food and religious freedom. In the context of sometimes somewhat forgotten groups, I have made a habit of raising these issues in these debates, and I strongly support the comments on the protection of Papuan Indonesia. It is always the victim of systematic discrimination and oppression. As far as we are concerned, this is a subject which still deserves the warm interest of this government. My final comment. That brings me back to the beginning. Despite the grief of losing her husband, the aforementioned Nigerian widow Marian indicated that she prayed for the one who killed her husband. We cannot impose forgiveness and reconciliation, but it is nice to see that people are forgiven and what peace and tranquillity this can give. And it's nice to see that this can break the endless spiral of violence. Forgiveness is hope and hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u49	A brief interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma, because at 2.45 p.m. we will continue with the next debate. And I think there's been a lot of interruptions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u50	I'm sure we'll save 15.15 hours under your expert guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, 2:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u52	It's gonna be a little harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u53	It depends on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u54	The election programme of Mr Van der Staaij's party is called, if I do have it, "Choose life." This is somewhat at odds with the views of Mr Van der Staaij's party on the death penalty. But he also says something about the death penalty abroad, and I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij about that. Suspects of serious crimes could be loaned from the Netherlands to countries where the death penalty is applied. Does Mr Van der Staaij actually support the efforts of Minister Koenders to bring the Dutch who are threatened with the death penalty back to the Netherlands? Or does he actually not support this at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u55	The way in which it is applied in many countries is also disgusting to us. It is better not to have that punishment than to have it, but in such a way that it presents problems in all kinds of ways and there is abuse. There are also countries such as America that have a system where the death penalty is possible. Let's say we have a terrorist out there who's caused terrible death and destruction. Do you have to say in principle that you will never hand someone over to a country if it has a functioning rule of law? We have also asked ourselves this question, and we have said that there should be this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u56	That is a good summary of the election programme. There are Dutch people who are detained abroad, sometimes for serious crimes and sometimes for crimes that we in the Netherlands consider not serious, and who may face the death penalty. In my opinion, the Netherlands is right to try to get these people back to the Netherlands in order to avert the death penalty. Does Mr Van der Staaij support these attempts or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u57	In many cases, yes, if there is no confidence whatsoever in the way in which the sentence is imposed in those countries. However, if it is someone who has committed a horrific terrorist attack in America, it does not have to be. For the sake of clarity, I can say that on the very sensitive issue of the death penalty I feel at home with the Hillary Clinton, who is very much appreciated in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u58	I had to think about the last comment. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr. Chairman. The world's relations have changed and changed every day. We van Denk attach great importance to the relationships that the Netherlands maintains with the rest of the world. After all, the Netherlands is an exporting country. If the Netherlands wants to maintain and strengthen its export position, it is necessary that we change our insights and anticipate developments in other countries. We must realise that the West is no longer the only centre of power in the world. The time when the West could dictate its will unilaterally to the rest of the world is now far behind us. So is our version of history behind us. A well-known African proverb reads: As long as the lions don't write their own history, hunting stories will always fall in favour of the hunter. The future of our country begins by drawing lessons from the past. The Netherlands has a rich history. Part of that wealth is due to the inseparable relationship we have with countries like South Africa, Indonesia and Suriname and of course with the Antilles. This history also has a shadow side, a side that doesn't like to be exposed. The effects are still palpable for many by sea and in the Netherlands today. In the Netherlands we do not like to talk about these sensitive issues. We of Think think it is time for formal excuses for our colonial past and for our slavery past and for all the damage that has arisen to be discussed openly. It would be a good thing for this cabinet if it were no longer to dwell on this issue and made full excuses for the inhumane suffering that we have caused others. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Former director Peter Knoope of the International Counterterrorism Centre says Western superiority is creating an anti-Western attitude in the rest of the world. We therefore believe that equality should be at the heart of foreign relations rather than superiorityism. Does this mean that we are not allowed to criticise? No. We certainly need to give our opinion on events that we consider relevant. We must, of course, talk to the rest of the world to make a profit in the area of human rights. We believe that we should work for international justice if injustice occurs. Once again, we must do so by means of an equal dialogue and not by means of the lifted finger. We shouldn't want to be world champion ambassadors. We must get rid of the attitude 'we know better and you must listen to us'. We must realise that if we criticize others, we can expect them back. However, when others criticise us, several politicians often talk about interference in domestic affairs. Long toes. One of the most important challenges we face is the future of the European Union. We in the House say 'yes' to the European Union, but 'no' to the long arm of Brussels. The European Union is currently a union that deals too much with unnecessary matters. If a cucumber in Sweden is slightly crooked than in Slovakia, that is a big problem. The EU is too often dealing with small things. It is logical that this creates an anti-Europe attitude, including in the Netherlands. The European Union must focus on the real challenges. When will the European Union jointly come up with a solution to the refugee tragedy? What is the European Union's response to the growing xenophobia in Europe? These are crucial questions, which are important for the survival of a healthy Europe. It is also time to review the European Union. We see that solidarity is crumbling, whereas it is more necessary than ever for solidarity to be interconnected. The European Union is closely related to the economic, military and foreign policies of the United States. In view of the latest developments, is this dependence wise? After the election of Donald Trump, a man who is structurally racist, sexist and xenophobic about other groups, we should actually be glad that our Prime Minister was not in Mr Trump's list. The President of the United States is also seen as the leader of the free West. But everything that free West stands for is now under pressure. It is therefore high time for Europe to rethink and act on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u60	This is a broad story, but it is now about Europe and Europe's relations. I have a question about Turkey and Europe. This is discussed here in the Chamber, but tomorrow a motion will be adopted in the European Parliament to suspend negotiations with Turkey. Does Mr Kuzu agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u61	No. Mr President, in order to help you with the time, I have decided to respond very briefly to all questions about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u62	I'm so glad you're thinking with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u63	Yeah, but I'm also asking other colleagues that question. This is really happening right now. We see Turkey slipping and undermining the rule of law there. What is the red line for Mr Kuzu to stop negotiations with Turkey? The cabinet said earlier that the introduction of the death penalty would be that red line. Is that also the red line for Mr Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u64	Firstly, I believe that 'no' is also an answer. Mr Voordewind, of course, was right to ask this question. I believe that the Copenhagen criteria should be taken into account. However, I believe that it is very in the interests of the European Union, and also in the interests of Turkey, to maintain the dialogue. You don't do that by suspending or aborting negotiations. No, you do that by staying in conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u65	I can't get an answer to my question. My question was: what is the red line for Mr Kuzu? The cabinet and the European Commission have said that the time when the death penalty would be introduced is the limit for them; then Turkey goes too far and the negotiations are stopped. Is that the same for Mr Kuzu? If not, he would think differently from the whole European community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u66	We have strongly opposed the death penalty. But we don't want to change the rules of the game. The Copenhagen criteria are clear. The chapters on the basis of which these negotiations take place are also clear. Indeed, the death penalty is part of that, so: yes. I was just talking about the way the great powers act. I would like to move on to that. Such action is too often directed towards the short term. There is no long-term strategy, it is too focused on its own interests and too little on peace and prosperity for the local population. We can see that in the way conflicts are handled. When a war breaks out, there are often no legitimate reasons for doing so. We do not want the refugees, but we want the oil; we do not want reconstruction, but we want to bomb it flat. If there is nothing to be achieved, we do not seem to care about international justice. This is reflected in the suffering in other parts of the world, which is still ongoing on a daily basis. Think of the mothers in Gaza, who send their children to school every day without knowing whether they will come back. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly made a point of this. I've been making that point for two years. Minister, when is this strategic moment coming? That strategic moment is the last chance for this minister to make real progress. If he does not, I wonder if we will see this minister again next year in the budget debate. And of course it is also the question of how this minister will act after his ministry. We often see this kind of thing with former executives: we see that far too little happens if they can do something; and if they can't do anything after that, it doesn't matter anymore. Think also of the fate of the Rohingya, whose existence is not recognized and who are expelled to camps. Think also of the many child soldiers in Liberia, who have been confronted with atrocities since the age of six. The West only seems merciful when there is something to fetch. That is in itself a contradiction in itself. Stop thinking superiority, on to the equal dialogue!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u67	Mr. Chairman. "Timmermans just yelled," headlined De Telegraaf last week. And the newspaper was absolutely right about this. Once again, the ego of French was greater than his mind. We are of course referring to his remark that there is evidence that the Gülen movement was involved in the Turkish coup. There is no evidence of that at all. Timmermans spoke total bullshit, probably to get a leg up with his good friend Erdogan. Everything has to go to save the migration deal. The Turkish opposition is now being put at a disadvantage. Timmermans' comment contributes to legitimising the treatment policy of the AK party. Our colleagues from DENK will love it again. The situation in Turkey is poignant. Tens of thousands of people have been arrested, critical media channels have been closed, Kurdish parliamentarians have been arrested and the death penalty is likely to be reinstated. The country's Islamization is in full swing. In fact, legislation was considered to allow child molesters to avoid their punishment by marrying the sexually abused child. It's a horrible proposition! Turkey really goes back light years in development. However, the negotiations on Turkey's accession to the EU continue. We say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: take an example from your Austrian colleague. Convict Turkish blackmail policy. Make it clear that there is no place for Turkey in the EU. And never visa-free travel for the nearly 80 million Turks. Despite the situation in Turkey, 2016 has become a historic year: first the result of the Ukraine referendum, then the Brexit and then the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States. Throughout the Western world, the political elite loses its power. It's great to see. The bureaucrats in Brussels are now in a blind panic. They choose the flight forward and seek the answer in more EU. I refer to an EU federation, an EU army, a European Public Prosecutor's Office and the abolition of the right of veto of the Member States. They really have a big Eurofelt sign for their heads. More EU does not lead to more stability, but to chaos and conflict. The answer lies precisely in the opposite, in the withdrawal of powers. The Netherlands must become a sovereign country again. That is not how Brussels should be, but we must decide for ourselves who will enter our country. Like Frits Bolkestein, we believe that the euro project has completely failed. A currency artificially kept alive with Northern European billions has no right to exist. We can't keep muddying like this. We therefore say: split the euro into a northern and a southern currency. We want a new currency within an economic Northern European alliance with countries such as Germany, Austria and Luxembourg. We live in uncertain and unsafe times. Global tensions call for a strong foreign policy and defence policy, but this cabinet lacks any need to do so. Diplomatic doesn't dare hit it on the table with his fist. On a military level, the Netherlands lacks strength. Last Monday, the Commander of the Armed Forces said once again that our armed forces have been eroded and that the cuts have led to a severely weakened information position. Nevertheless, the cabinet repeatedly fails to keep its appointments. Our country has for years failed to comply with the NATO standard and, despite Trump's election, has no plan to do so. This, while the threat in Europe is growing ever more. We see that Russia is putting new rocket systems, which can be equipped with nuclear weapons, into its enclave Kaliningrad. Does the cabinet renounce this aggressive act? I'd like to get a response to that. This cabinet sets the wrong priorities every time. This Minister of Foreign Affairs is funding anti-Israeli aid clubs and is now investing millions in cultural projects for young people in Egypt, Morocco and Tunisia. We already know that it is not going to produce anything, as is the EUR 4 billion spent annually on development aid. The naive policy is really hopeless to see. Fortunately, the voter will have the opportunity to deal with the cabinet on 15 March 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr. Chairman. The Minister states in the explanatory statement to his budget that the European Union is under pressure. Professor Gabriel van den Brink recently said in his farewell address: the EU failed as a political project. That's not someone from a suspicious populist angle. The question then is how the cabinet and the European Union deal with this observation. Let us look at the last seven days. I repeat, seven days. A European Army, a European Public Prosecutor's Office and a European FBI. An association agreement agreed by the Dutch people is also being continued. I ask the Minister: how should I judge this? Is this the Minister's answer to the EU's discontent? More federalism? A political government in Brussels that removes control in other areas? Is this cabinet still listening? The Minister also states that the EU is an important driver of prosperity and applauds the blessings of the free market. Does the Cabinet speak with one voice in this regard? The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Asscher, said one of these days that the free movement of workers has failed in many parts. He called for a radically different Europe, which set limits to the free movement of workers. Does this minister share the analysis of his colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister? Does he support that plea? In an interruption to Mr Ten Broeke, I have already indicated that I do not like the migration deals with corrupt regimes in Africa. People are becoming commodities, which I believe we are going on a path whereby we become blackmailable to corrupt regimes. It seems to me a bad thing to go that way. I come now to Turkey, Mr President, and if my speaking time gets a little longer, you can deduct it from the speaking time for other budgets. Turkey is trying to land here to undermine integration. I call Dyanet, Erdogan's long arm. The Turkish government tries to play the Dutch of Turkish origin against each other. The Turkish Government is trying to impose unacceptable positions on equality between men and women and on the victims of sexual violence on us here, at least on residents of Turkish origin. What is the government going to do about this and is it not even time to just say to Turkey now: this way there is no place for you in the European Union? Finally. Commissioner Timmermans has indications that the Gülen movement is behind the coup in Turkey. Does this minister know about this investigation? Is he willing to send that investigation to the Chamber? And if that investigation does not exist, does the Minister share the analysis of Mr Timmermans, who did come to this conclusion on the basis of his contacts? This minister himself has many contacts and has his own diplomatic service. Sharing are contacts and his diplomatic service the insights and conclusion of Mr Timmermans? Because, Mr President, if it is not, that is a blow to the face of tens of thousands of political prisoners, given the raids that continue in Turkey to this day. I'd like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you. We have come to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. we will continue with the government's replies and the second term on the part of the Chamber and the Minister.
