ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue the debate on accountability for the year 2015. We would have stayed with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. As has already been said by several Members of Parliament, it is the last day of responsibility for this cabinet. Next year, we all hope and expect to have a new cabinet. The question is what this cabinet leaves behind. What's the inheritance? According to the last Accountability letter, this is in any case a recovering economy and a limitation of government debt. The Minister of Finance can and should be proud of that. At the same time, there are a few things to be less proud of, such as the dysfunction of three departments, which many speakers have already mentioned to me. This is a very bad thing. The Court of Auditors is rarely hard in its conclusions. I am therefore anxious to see what the Prime Minister's reaction to this will be and, of course, at a later stage, of the relevant trade ministers. In 2015, the question of refugees, employment and climate issues are three major social and political issues. It is perhaps almost obvious that there is as little in the letter as possible, because the results are not to write about home or to this house. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that is what this debate on responsibility should be about. The cabinet briefly pays attention to refugee reception and calls in particular the discouragement of refugees as a measure to ensure that the influx is reduced. In particular, refugees should not come to the Netherlands, was the intention. However, there were many, much more than the cabinet had expected. That's where it all went wrong. On paper, the numbers were kept small, causing it to choke. When reality turned out to be different, steam and boiling water had to be adjusted. Now money for refugees is being paid for by others in the world from which we can hope that they do not flee this way, money for development cooperation. It is typical of the cabinet approach: in the event of a sudden crisis and war, development aid is the closing point. Pressing poor between different ministries immediately leads to the result that the strongest wins, and that is not our development cooperation. How many new programs that would be launched on the basis of the increasing sums related to the GNP has this cost? Can the Minister comment on this? What didn't we do what we should have done? Sixty thousand have been picked up. First and foremost, I should like to congratulate the municipalities and the very many volunteers in this country. They've gone for it. Brave aldermen and mayors with creative solutions dared the conversation with the people, where the cabinet mainly hit the table with the fist. They have resisted bizarre demands of the COA. They made it work. For example, the Utrecht College has started to directly bind asylum seekers to the city: integrate from day one. Ede has decided to organise three small scale receptions. Wijk bij Duurstede late spread over the municipality to build additional houses to accommodate status holders. Those are the good initiatives. This saved the refugee issue in 2015 and provided human reception, with thousands of volunteers. We have more volunteers in the Netherlands than refugees. Here and there there are waiting lists at organisations for people who want to receive and accompany very motivated refugees. We don't hear that in Nieuwsuur, because good news isn't news, but it is. The Netherlands is showing its good side there. Now that this group of refugees is here, it will have to be taken care of from day one, including by government policy, that these people will have a chance. I've tried it a few times by interrupting colleagues. If we provide substantial sums of money for first reception and initial integration and integration but then do not train these people further in terms of language level than primary school level............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The only thing that helps is if we could now move to a system with an integrated approach to integration, language, training and vocational training, at least at the MBO level, because that is what we consider to be a starting qualification in the labour market. We don't do it for less. Is the Prime Minister prepared to set this in motion so that we can correct mistakes from the past, when we captured large groups of people in our society but left them in the margins of our society? We shouldn't let that happen. Let's learn from the mistakes of the past. So we have to bet on those combination paths. I'm switching to the climate. The cabinet reports on a bit of economic recovery, but at the same time we see CO emissions flying back into the air. The cabinet is committed to green growth. This means decoupling economic growth and CO emissions. We have to note that 2015 has proved that none of this is going to happen. De facto, the climate problem is now only being extended in greater form to a shorter future. That shorter future is now getting so short that you actually think of the example of the motorist who rides on a concrete wall at VVD speed, 130 km/h, and says 20 meters in advance: nothing wrong; if I just start braking in time, I only have a little bumper damage. That's not gonna end well. I have here a graph of the share of renewable energy. I will hand over the graph later, but it shows what we have achieved so far and where we come up with the low level of ambition of the energy agreement. So it has to go up very steeply. It's flattening and it really has to be completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	No one can see it, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Development is flattering, whereas much more needs to be done. Through the messenger, I will hand over the chart to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	I think everyone believes you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	At least the Prime Minister will see this. I think it is very important that he responds to this. On the issue of measures to combat emissions, the cabinet is mainly playing hide-and-seek. Minister Kamp is about the one, the Secretary of State of I and M is about the treaty and ultimately cabinetwide is not actually taken responsibility. Mr Nijboer, whom I interrupted on that point, said with a cheerful face that the cabinet is bringing forward the closure of coal power stations. Can we say that this cabinet has opened three coal power stations and has not yet closed one? Unemployment has fallen slightly, but has increased slightly in an important area, namely youth unemployment, since 2015. There's a weird dip in it. You can see that things haven't been going so well with unemployment lately. The government's approach was mainly to promote economic growth and reduce burdens. Let us note that, when we discussed the Tax Plan, we already had a discussion about the fact that 5 billion tax relief provided alousy of 35,000 jobs, of course in the long term, and that this was converted around €142,000 per job. This is not effective in dealing with the real problem of unemployment. Younger and older unemployed and the long-term unemployed are not effectively helped by this policy. The PvdA is proposing more purchasing power recovery today. That's nice, because those corporate profits need to be deployed and they shouldn't stay there, but the question is how do you do that? A Generic Purchasing Power Restore is going to create few jobs. A targeted use of this money for good job plans could be useful. There were once PvdA ministers who were able to attach their name to good plans to provide more work in the short term and were reasonably effective in doing so. Their last names began with an M; I don't mention any other names. It would be desirable for this cabinet to take an example and provide concrete measures. In any case, Minister Asscher's sectoral plans have not produced any results. In the meantime, that has also been recognised. A small point of light is the low-income advantage. We can support targeted relief. By the way, it will not start until 1 January 2017. Let's hope that gets any of that. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to extend the low-income advantage further? In the meantime, we have taken measures on the minimum youth wage by reducing age. This means that the funds available for the low-income benefit should now be distributed among more people. Would it be desirable to extend that plan further? Ambassadors for the elderly and young, he really didn't. We expect firm and concrete measures from the cabinet in this area. I'd like to end with that, too. My group is shocked at the serious shortcomings in three departments. We really need to discuss this further, but even more so, my group is shocked by the fact that we are moving forward and resolving major issues on paper. Paper is patient, but that does not solve these issues. The legacy of this cabinet could be a very heavy burden for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	Madam President. We just had lunch break and I was able to combine it with an interview by two students from Hoornbeeck College. That is seven times in a row chosen to be the best rock in the Netherlands, I'm just saying. The Hoornbeeck College, don't forget that, Prime Minister. Those two students have been sitting in the public gallery all morning and afternoon. I think they're in there now. Or no, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	They're gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then they're in town now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	They're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	At least until the suspension they did what they had to do nicely, namely follow a debate and interview me. They said to me: it is striking that you have a lot of things in common and that is nice. I think that wasn't their interpretation. That's four things. When I listen to the debate so far, we all thank the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has done a good job: chapeau. I would like to thank the lady who is sitting here and Mr Visser with his own. Secondly, listen and I also think that a lot of things are going well. Fortunately, the economy is growing again. Nor do we regret the support we have occasionally provided through the agreements with D66 and the Christian Union. Again, we have taken on our responsibilities together in difficult times. The deficit is falling and will even skip into a surplus from 2019 if it is not bullied by new policies or external circumstances. Last year, public debt even fell despite a deficit. In these times, that is indeed an achievement. I would like to thank the Cabinet for what it has done before. It also has something to do with foreign affairs and with world trade, but it also depends on policies. A third point is that there are concerns. Everyone has their own things, but I think there are two overarching concerns. The first concern is that the burden is too high. Generically, we have reduced deficits by, among other things, increasing the burden by 12 billion compared to pre-crisis time. As far as I am concerned, this should be reversed at some point, including for specific groups, for example for the elderly; fortunately, I also hear others calling it a earner. The second concern is the high level of unemployment, because so many people in this country are, of course, still worrying if we do not do something about it. You can connect the two, because if you lower the burden, you make work more attractive. I think there's one of the targets there. I believe that we are going to discuss this further in the spring paper and, above all, in the budget debate. My impression is that, in the debate on accountability, we look back and learn and then look forward. The fourth common point is that everyone has talked so far about security and justice, defence and taxation. That's where I'm concerned, too. I agree with colleagues' detailed questions. This is about core tasks. This prime minister is six years old, with Rutte I and Rutte II in power. I don't want to link those two directly, but I do have a question about it. Certainly the VVD, but in fact everyone sees the following as a key task: the security of the country and the intervention in other countries when things get out of hand, the police and the justice system, but also simply raising money from the people. As far as I'm concerned, that's as little as possible, but if you agreed to do it, you should do it. Those core tasks should not go wrong, but things are going wrong there. I would like to quote from the President of the Court of Auditors, Arno Visser, on this point: politics is too focused on making plans and too little on achieving them. Isn't that at the heart of the problem? For more than two years now, it has been known that there are major problems in all three departments. I have three questions for the cabinet. The first question is: is the Prime Minister doing enough? Has he taken the lead enough? It does not reassure me that he is looking very surprised at me now, because it is the core task. And, of course, the Prime Minister will be able to say: the two ministers and the Secretary of State who sit on this have the responsibility; deal with them in the debates. We're doing the same thing. Last Tuesday evening, we spoke with Minister Hennis about defence versus NATO standards. But when it comes to such core tasks, shouldn't the Prime Minister direct it? Knowing him, he must have tried to do the same. The big question is: has that been enough? We are not talking about this for the first time. This has been going on for years. For years, we've had to find out that there are big holes here. Then what did the Prime Minister do? And shouldn't he do it anymore? The second question is: do the rulers do enough? What is the Prime Minister's opinion on this? And the third question is: does the Minister of Finance have sufficient budget? Directors can walk out of the fire, but we still say, as in the case of the Defence Department, that we must do missions, carry out tasks and ensure security. If there is a culture in the Defense Department of 'what politics demands, we deliver', but through the Minister of Finance, who is responsible, we do not provide enough budget to achieve that, do we not do them a task that is impossible to carry out? I therefore ask the Prime Minister to look back on that report from the General Court. It has been said for several years that there is a mismatch between what we ask the ministries to do in terms of content and the budget that goes with it. This applies to Defence, to Security and Justice, to the police, to the intelligence services and to various other components. It actually applies throughout the chain. Shouldn't there be more room? We will soon have to give discharge for these annual reports, at least as requested by the cabinet. I think that's a tricky point. I am not sure about that either, but fortunately this is just the beginning of the debate. The Prime Minister will say that these are complex problems which have arisen in a long time and which cannot be solved overnight either. I agree with that in itself, but can you afford to have that year on year? In my view, that is only possible if you see that you can actually solve these problems in the foreseeable future, but I do not see that happening. I would like the Prime Minister's promise that he will solve these three major problems before he becomes a missionary and that we will not again saddle a new cabinet with a huge problem at the beginning, because there are major deficits in three key tasks of the government. I want this cabinet to be able to say to the next cabinet: we have solved the big problems so that you can work on the other challenges. That is my core question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. During today's Accountability debate, an important question is: are we getting value for our taxpayers' money? The cabinet must make clear what the policy cost last year, whether the public money was well spent and whether the policy goals have been achieved. Last week, the Minister of Finance was well-spoken in the presentation of the accounts. He more or less said that the legitimacy of income and expenditure in 2015 is a problem: public debt is falling for the first time since the start of the financial crisis in 2008; the budget deficit has not been so small since 2009; unemployment is falling slightly and the economy is picking up a bit. 50PLUS also sees vulnerabilities despite the cautious positive developments. The public debt has increased by 70% since 2007 and amounts to as much as €26,000 per inhabitant; for a family soon a tonne. Government borrowing costs have fallen by 65% due to falling interest rates and the maturity of government loans has been shorter on average since 2007 in order to benefit optimally from falling interest rates. However, this favourable picture can change if interest rates rise again to a normal height. How is this vulnerability addressed in public finances? The statement made yesterday by the Minister of Finance therefore surprised us in this respect. He said that Greece's debt relief should not affect the Dutch budget, because the Netherlands can borrow almost free money. He also said there's some room left. 50PLUS believes that if that space is there and it is going to be used, you should use it to invest in care and in a balanced purchasing power development for people who work, people who cannot work and people who have worked. The latter group has been systematically delayed by this cabinet. We just got a little statistics, but I also brought one where you can see the difference between workers and non-working people. I'll make sure it gets to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Krol's statistics seem to be better than those of Mr Grashoff, at least in terms of visibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	After EUR 50 billion, I repeat: there is no balanced purchasing power development in terms of budget cuts and increases in the burden of the Rutte Cabinets. This certainly does not apply to pensioners, even after the 5 billion in relief. The Central Statistical Office has estimated that there has been a real purchasing power gap between workers and pensioners over the last 15 years. We can even speak of a ravine for pensioners to be closed. Proposals that contribute to this are supported by 50PLUS, even if they come from a party that continues to promise "65" and swallows up one day after the elections. But 50PLUS is in favour of structural proposals and not one-off proposals. I would like to thank the Member of the Labour Party very much in that regard. I therefore ask the Cabinet to make proposals. The fact that public spending is legitimate is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, this does not mean that taxpayers' money is also spent efficiently, effectively and efficiently. According to the Court of Auditors, this is often not the case. Today we discussed the major shortcomings in the Tax Office, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security and Justice. 50PLUS asks the cabinet to work on the many recommendations of the government mathematician. Can that be promised? I come to the case study on the policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment to combat long-term old-age unemployment. 50PLUS finds the results staggering. In 2015, more than 17,000 older jobseekers used various schemes to get back to work. It amounts to almost €14,000 per job seeker. 50PLUS finds it incomprehensible that there is so little research on the impact of the schemes. It is appalling that not even of all policy instruments is clear how much money is involved and how many job seekers have actually been helped. This seems to be a prerequisite for policies aimed at such an urgent and persistent social problem. By way of illustration, at the end of the reintegration provision in 2014, almost 70% of 45-64 year olds did not work in the assistance. Only 22% have come to work, whether part-time or not. It has to be and can be better. 50PLUS calls for the commitment to incorporate the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors, if possible already in the new Action Plan to combat long-term ageing unemployment. What concrete steps can we expect from the cabinet? In short, the new action plan that 50PLUS is looking forward to must be secured better than before and we must ensure that it works and is efficient and effective. My group finds the findings of the General Court of Auditors on decentralisation in the social domain and on care worrying. Due to the changes in 2015 and previous years, the organisation of the healthcare system has changed dramatically. Policies, collection and spending of money, execution and accountability are spread across different parties. This makes the responsibility for healthcare expenditure complicated and vulnerable. It is almost impossible to see the effective, efficient and efficient use of large amounts of care money. According to the Court of Auditors, many areas have serious problems of accountability. Let me give you a concrete example. Expenditure on the personal budget will amount to 2.6 billion in 2015. The General Court points out that the pgb payments cannot be properly audited and accounted for by the Social Insurance Bank. This has implications for the accountability of the municipalities and health offices. It is very important that all parties in their accountability make transparent where it has gone wrong. Underlying causes have not been removed so far. According to the Court of Auditors, some of the bottlenecks are already known that they will not be resolved this year either. This could lead to further problems in accountability. The Minister shares the Court's recommendation that parties should take timely action. Then how will the cabinet pick this up? In fact, will the cabinet surprise the Court of Auditors with adequate accountability for 2016? In the opinion of 50PLUS, it is remarkable that the Minister of the Interior does not consider himself primarily responsible for a threatening persistent problem in financial accountability between municipalities and healthcare providers. I believe that the Court of Auditors is right to point out that the Minister has an active responsibility under the Community law, since he is a coordinating executive and final responsibility. The legal problem between healthcare providers and municipalities is now taking place over the year 2015. Also in 2016 it is unlikely to be resolved. It is essential that the legality of public expenditure in the care sector is established more clearly and more quickly after system changes. This will create more space and insight to improve the efficiency of care. The Minister for the Interior must analyse the problem and determine whether and, if so, what legislative and regulatory changes are necessary. On the basis of that analysis, the Minister should, if necessary, propose adjustments. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, 50PLUS did not agree with the decision to decentralise care tasks at the same time with a huge cut-off and without a clear framework. The policy chosen by this cabinet has caused a lot of damage, unrest and pain in people's homes. When we talk about accountability today, my final question is whether the Prime Minister feels responsible for all this damage, pain and unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the General Court for its report. I would add that this should not be a debate on the figures, not a debate for accountants and technocrats, but a debate that normal people should be able to follow. Why should normal people be able to follow this debate and why should they not follow it? Because they hear a minister who is proud of his annual accounts while the General Court is critical and has given a number of restrictive statements. The Minister says that the firm policy of this government pays off, but the people outside this Chamber do not notice much of it. The minister says that the cabinet has been working on fair sharing since 2012, but the people on the low-income street don't notice any of that. The minister says that in 2015 the red lights jumped on green, but the lights didn't jump on green at all. Today's reality is that the Netherlands is full of red alarm lights. The EMU balance may be in order, but after three years of Rutte-Asscher we should ask ourselves the question: is the Netherlands in order? What was 2015 for a year for people in our country? 2015 was the year in which the Netherlands remained on a colder, more right-wing course, with a prime minister passing the neoliberal train, because our vice-premier refuses to pull the emergency brake. The PvdA looks powerless to watch the Netherlands right, harden and roughen. 2015 was the year in which the rich got richer and the poor got poorer again. The 10% most wealthy households hold 66% of the wealth. The number of households in debt is growing. More than 400,000 children grow up in poverty. 2015 was also the year in which the rule of law was further undermined. We've seen that in the last few weeks, with the anti-terrorism laws we've been discussing. Racism and discrimination have also come to an end. The year of the towering unemployment. This fell slightly, but remained sky high, especially for people with a migrant background and for the elderly. They are not reaping enough of the fruits of slow growth. 2015 was the year of older people whose pension became even tighter, of women who are still held back by a glass ceiling and are paid less. 2015 was the year of bed, bath and bread; the year in which a number of political parties wanted the fellow man to die and barely conquered the heart and mind. 2015 was the year of the refugees, who fled bombs and drowned terror in the Mediterranean. While the European Union met powerlessly, we still see the washed-up boy Aylan lying there, with his red shirt on the white beach. Where is the human dimension in our bureaucratic structures? Where is the human warmth in this icy age spirit? Where is man in the world of systems? 2015 was the year of terrorism; of the murders in Paris, Ankara, Grand-Bassam, Kabul and not to mention in Brussels; of the massacres by Assad and Daesh and by the Western bombs. And yes, the Dutch bombs also seem to cause civilian casualties. You wonder if the violence will never stop. Don't people ever stop killing each other? Why does man actually kill the human species? 2015 was the year of the money, the year in which ABN AMRO's management gave itself a bonus, while the government brought the bank to the stock market with loss. As always, the bill is paid by the people again. 2015 was also the year of the two Rembrandt paintings. 80 million euros of tax money went to the Rothschild family, the richest of the earth. Because prestige once again won principles, the government baked the richest of the earth, like a reverse Robin Hood. Why does politics help the elite instead of ordinary citizens? Why does politics let the banking lobby write its own laws? Why is politics following instead of leading? 2015 was also the year of the citizens' initiative Our Money, of a group of people who showed that the money creation should lie with the citizens rather than with the banks. That is the hope we must continue to cherish, the hope that things can be different, that people who think differently will continue to show themselves, that creativity will win over the rusted structures, that ideals will win over the vested interests. That is the hope and message of DENK: that we not only have the financial statements in order, but that we have the Netherlands in order; that we will live in a just country, in which equality and human measure win greed and dishonesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not doing well. 2015 was a dramatic year. The Rutte II cabinet was exposed as a danger to the Netherlands. It neglects the core tasks of the government in the field of security and defence. First of all, the asylum crisis shows that the cabinet cannot protect our borders at all. The EU now decides who we allow in our country. Last year, the Netherlands was flooded with tens of thousands of asylum seekers and there is an immense chance that terrorists will also be among them. The migrants were not properly screened by the failing agencies of Security and Justice. Many new asylum seekers' centres were forced on the Dutch. Often, local democracy was shamefully put out of operation. The whole process led to distrust in politics and unrest in society and undermined social cohesion in our country. The cabinet spent no less than 1.5 billion on asylum seekers but did nothing about the large deficits in defence and police. Our armed forces aren't even capable of defending their own territory. Rutte II is therefore in breach of the Constitution. It's nothing new. DOD's been in a depravable state for years. Due to a lack of moving equipment, an army battalion even decided to walk. In these times of terror, we also see enormous staff shortages in the military. It's all an embarrassing display. While we are at war with IS and the Russian threat is increasing, the government still has the culture of the broken rifle. It's irresponsible and dangerous. The classic government task of defending our country is not in good hands in this cabinet. The chronic shortage of resources also breaks the organization hard. Let me give you a few examples. 1. Because of a lack of capacity and craftsmanship, the detectives crack in his joints. 2. The reorganisation of national police is a complete failure and costs hundreds of millions more. 3. The fight against serious crime is on its way, partly because a lot of police capacity goes into the asylum influx. 4. Anti-terror services are heavily understaffed. Only in the fantasy world of the VVD has the Netherlands become safer. In reality, thousands of criminals are free, prisons are empty and half of all police stations are closed down. In 2015, the VVD not only lost two directors on Security and Justice but also its credibility. Mr. Chairman. Our security forces must regain their strength and act. This requires, first of all, a change of mind in this cabinet, with this Prime Minister. We say to them: less focus on glitter bows and the Toppers and more attention to cops and military. VNL therefore proposes to invest 5 billion more in our armed forces, so that the Netherlands finally complies with the NATO agreement and no longer abandons its allies. Give an extra 1 billion to the police and prosecutors so they can fight with terrorists and serious criminals well equipped. Major investments in safety are of the utmost importance. Eventually, our freedom is based on the iron will to defend it. A prosperous country like the Netherlands should no longer neglect its core tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	Madam President. We have planned the next division of the answer. Let me first say a few words in a general sense about the state of the economy. Then I'll go into Security and Justice and Defense. I shall then touch on a few aspects of decentralisation and the labour market. I will conclude by answering a few loose, general questions. The Minister of Finance will address the further aspects of decentralisation, the non-municipal part. He will talk about the state-wide legality and conduct of business. He'll talk about the 30% rule for the expats. He will go into more detail on a number of aspects relating to serious deficiencies. In addition, he will address the Tax Administration, the climate, and the guarantees and risks. He will conclude by answering a number of other questions. We tried to split it as best we could. I shall begin with a few introductory remarks on where we stand economically. The fact is that in recent years measures have had to be taken which have undoubtedly affected a great many people. It hasn't always been easy in the past few years. The severe economic crisis has led to rising unemployment and a tax burden. What we do see is that we all managed to get through this difficult phase, not just the Cabinet or the House of Representatives, but the whole of the Netherlands. I think that is something we should all acknowledge. It is also fair to note that many people are still experiencing the effects of the crisis at the moment. There's still uncertainty about job, home and retirement. That is also why this cabinet will work terribly hard until the last day to achieve improvements in all these areas. We want to make all the changes that have been introduced a success. In doing so, we want to eliminate undesirable effects. That is what we are doing to ensure that the Netherlands will continue to be that prosperous country. If I look at where we stand now and compare it to where we stood a few years ago, then I think we all have reason to be proud. Everyone's made their contribution. By going on stubbornly and stubbornly, even in the most difficult years of the crisis, we are now where we are. Houses are being bought and sold again. Companies are investing again. More and more jobs are being created. Housekeeping's getting back on track. Once again, we are not here yet, so we will continue to work. I'm coming to Security and Justice. The General Court found six shortcomings in 2014. The number of imperfections fell from six to four in 2015, but one of them has become a serious imperfection. That happens when such an imperfection goes on for a number of years. It's about financial management and control at the Ministry. In the last quarter of last year, the Minister of V and J decided to introduce the new control model. That will take a lot of work this year to get it right. This serious imperfection is the result of an imperfection which has occurred for a number of years. Let us also note that in the last quarter of 2015 it was chosen to organise this control function in a different way and to shape the corresponding reorganisation. We hope that the Court of Auditors will take note of this, but we will see it next year. It is intended to remove this serious imperfection. Furthermore, the picture is that it has fallen from six to four imperfections, with one serious one. By working terribly hard on it all year round, we are looking forward to next year's Court of Auditors' report with some confidence. A great deal has happened in the field of security and justice in recent years in a wide range of areas. Many Members have pointed this out. If you reorganise so much and organize so many changes, it inevitably puts pressure on the organization. This is important in the case of Security and Justice, because it directly affects security and the whole sense of justice in our society. I think we have to note that in the last six months a lot of sections have been set in motion, which have just been initiated by the political leadership of the department, by the Secretary of State, by the Minister, in order to ensure that a precise identification is made of where things need to be improved and what that means for the future. I would also like to say that the 110,000 people working in our criminal justice chain, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, throughout the foreign chain, the Dutch prisons, the whole Judicial Institutions Service are doing an extremely good job. There are happy results; that is important for society. Indeed, the number of street robberies decreased by 13% in 2015 compared to 2014, and the number of house burglaries decreased by 9% and last year the public prosecutor and the police tackled 1,188 criminal co-operations. That is a long way above the objective. You can also see that the number of robberies has fallen further compared to 2014. So: yes, reorganize, sharpen things up, focus them up, if necessary also ask for reports to improve things further, but at the same time the store is completely open during the renovation and important results are still being achieved in the interest of all Dutch people who are concerned about their safety. But again, I am not running away from the serious imperfection of the control function and I think it is a good thing that action has now been taken on that point. Mr President, I see a number of spokesmen walking to the interrupting microphone. Maybe I can finish the head of Security and Justice with a few other things. Then we can see if there were any elements in it that the spokesmen wanted to ask me about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	Yeah, I was just about to introduce you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	Of course, we've been asked what's going on with that ministry. Is that okay? I think it's good to have the entire criminal justice chain in one department. The fact that there are problems in the criminal justice chain that need to be addressed and which it is also important that they are addressed does not mean that the department would be too large or too small. That's really too much looking at the problem through a straw, at my belief. A motion was passed in the First Chamber to consider how to deal with that department. The intention of the cabinet is that the answer to that motion at the next cabinet formation will simply be on the table. We are not going to send that answer to the Chamber in advance, for the simple reason that this cabinet does not believe that the department should be divided. So what D66 is asking, namely whether the Chamber can get that report in January, cannot. We will not send it to the Chamber, but we will ensure that there are options on the table in time for the formation. We are not a scientific research agency that researches all kinds of variants of solutions that we do not want at all, but we do want to make it easier for the formation to be on the table. So that's what we're gonna do. Then there was also a question about performance in the criminal justice chain. Mr Omtzigt of the CDA asked whether the performance in the criminal justice chain was correct. He actually questioned that. I have mentioned a number of figures. I don't think they're lying. I said that these figures do not mean that there are no problems. The Minister and the Secretary of State are busy dealing with these problems. You are all familiar with the recent investigations. The re-evaluation of national police, the counter-terrorism strategy, the strength-weakness analysis in detectives, the improvement plan requested from the state attorney's office. The core department is also working very hard to ensure that the necessary cultural change takes place there. All this is done on the initiative of both the administration, the secretary-general and the political leadership, and that is exactly how it should be done. Then, of course, there is always a question of what the Prime Minister does. The Prime Minister ensures that all ministers and secretaries of state can do their job well within the framework of government policy. He also promotes the unity of government policy and, of course, keeps himself very regularly informed, both administratively and politically, of the progress of the processes in the various departments. I think that the good actions have been taken by Dijkhoff and Minister Van der Steur in the field of security and justice, but this is not going to solve overnight. This takes time and it needs to be carefully, and again: during the renovation the store simply remains open and gets good results from the 110,000 people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	These last words fully support the CDA Group. You can't solve this in one day and the problems at the Ministry of Security and Justice are big. That was exactly why I asked the cabinet to write a supplement to the annual report. The annual report states that important steps have been taken to strengthen the rule of law, that improved cooperation between partners in the criminal justice chain is delivering results and that the chain as a whole is performing faster and better. However, the picture is completely different. I have given the quotes from the public prosecutor's annual report presented today. The quality is under heavy pressure. I have also quoted from the report of the General Court of Auditors and from the Trades Report to the truth, which the Prime Minister himself cited; that report is about the strength-weakness analysis of the detection. Is the Prime Minister prepared to write, together with the Minister for Security and Justice, a supplement in which the criticism is taken seriously? If you do not identify and recognise the problems of Security and Justice in your own annual report, solving the problems is much more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	I'm not willing to do that because I don't think it's necessary. I do not agree with Mr Omtzigt. In fact, I agree with his whole argument, except for his conclusion, which is not supported by his argument either. He was right to point out that good results were achieved in the field of security and justice. He was right to point out that such a large organisation should have a permanent look at how things can be improved, especially if there have been major changes recently, such as the creation of national police forces. You want to know exactly how it works and what follow-up steps need to be taken. I think what's in the annual report is spot-on. At the same time, it is important that all these aspects of detective, prosecutor's office, counter-terrorism, police and the ministry itself have been the subject of the necessary investigations to improve things. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	The results are below par. This is noted by the General Court. Then the police themselves. In general, there is a lack of finance and innovative capacity to support detection processes. He writes that himself. The D.A. writes that the quality and performance are under heavy pressure. On the prison system, the General Court writes that it is difficult to determine the consequences. Then the central conclusion in the annual report can't be that things are going much better? Then you're still living in denial of the problem. I ask the Prime Minister once again whether he acknowledges that there is a problem with the search. The detection rate was even mentioned by the VVD as a problem. Thousands of people have been convicted. The D.A.'s office had to dismiss much more at 30% more than it expected because it couldn't handle things. Then there's a problem, isn't there? Is the Prime Minister prepared to face that problem and start from there with the improvements, rather than with such a shiny annual report on the Ministry of Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	Once again, Mr Omtzigt makes a good analysis but comes to the wrong conclusion. He's messing things up. The Court of Auditors identifies where there are shortcomings and where there are any serious shortcomings. I've established that it's gone back from six imperfections to four. One of them has become a serious imperfection. In the last quarter of 2015, the necessary actions were launched to put financial management and control function in order. That's what's being worked on all year round. That's that aspect. Mr Omtzig also stressed that good results were being achieved in many areas. We can see that crime is falling in the Netherlands. That's good news. However, it is also true that the various organisations of Security and Justice still have major issues to manage the reorganisation. I note with Mr Omtzigt that the Minister and the Secretary of State himself have asked for the necessary investigations and put in place the necessary follow-up actions. Last year, 250 million were added in structural terms. This year we are looking again at the financial situation in the area of security and justice. I cannot, of course, say anything about that. The spring note's coming up. We are also looking at the budget to see what is still possible and what is needed, also in the light of the commitments made during the budgetary procedure in the Second and Upper Chambers. Mr Omtzigt is a bit confused. If I could just sort it out, it concerns the Court of Auditors' report, the results and the reorganisations. Each of these three matters needs to be said, both positive and negative. We see that the organization continues and delivers during the renovation. I agree with Mr Omtzig that things also need to be addressed, but I do not recognise his conclusion that the annual report should therefore be rewritten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Prime Minister, in my opinion, denies the whole problem that is currently going on. There have been serious shortcomings in financial administration and financial control since 2012. The Court's report notes that nothing actually happened in 2015, despite commitments made by the Minister of Security and Justice. I've asked how the Prime Minister is on top of this. Actually, the answer is: well, there's not that much going on; next year we're gonna report and it's gonna be okay. Honestly, I don't trust that anymore. I advocate that we get a clear schedule on Prince's Day. What really happened between now and Princess Day in order to get financial control and culture in order in the Ministry of Security and Justice, what does the General Court think of this and are we upset? Actually, I'm asking for a commitment from the Prime Minister to do this with Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	We are not going to do that, because I have already said that the Minister for Security and Justice decided to improve the audit function in the last quarter. We will continue to work on this throughout 2016, also to carry out the corresponding reorganisation. That is exactly what needs to be done to ensure that this serious imperfection goes away, just as Mr Koolmees points out. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u30	I note that it was also written down last year and shared with the Chamber, but it did not happen. That makes me a little suspicious. That is why I believe that the Chamber should check that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u31	That appointment was made in November. That's when this was decided. It's been reported to the Chamber, and it's incredibly hard work right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u32	Improvement points were drawn up in May last year and agreements were also made with the Chamber. They have not been complied with, which at least makes me suspicious whether it really is happening. I want the Chamber to keep its finger on the pulse: how far is the Ministry of Security and Justice going to put this audit function in order? Is it so much to ask Prinsjesdag to tell us what is going on, whether it is happening and whether we are upset and also to ask the Court of Auditors to take a look and give advice? Then we can check if it really happens. Or next year after the elections, we'll have to find out that it's still a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u33	I remember from my time as Secretary of State that if you have to report to the Chamber every quarter about your progress and your changes, you no longer deserve the changes. I think it is a much more practical solution that Princess Day will be asked these questions in the debate on them and will be answered by me. The issuing of separate reports and the carrying out of separate audit reports means that dozens of officials are doing so. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u34	That seems to me to be a good idea, because there is a lot going on in the Ministry of Security and Justice. Improvements have indeed been made, but the situation is now such that the Chamber must keep its finger on the pulse. I also don't understand why the Prime Minister would oppose it. In my view, it is in all our interests that we keep our finger on what is happening, but also that the urgency is with V and J and also with the Minister of Finance in his system role as the one who looks at the way things are with the departments. It is important that this information is intermediate. Once again, what is the problem of reporting on this in the interim, for example in the budget or in the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think that is another constructive proposal: just in the budget. We will ensure that it is taken into account. Yes, I think that is a concrete proposal. I do not want separate accounts, documents and separate debates, because that takes far too much time. We take it into account in the budget. Mrs. Schouten, I'll do as you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u36	It's a bit of a joke being made...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u37	No, not at all. I sincerely think your suggestion is a good one. I understood Mr Koolmees in such a way that there had to be a separate responsibility and that it had to be looked at separately by the Court of Auditors. Then you see very separate control systems emerge. That takes a lot of money and a lot of time. I think it is a very constructive suggestion to include it in the budget. That's not a joke; I mean that sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u38	My objective is precisely that it should not only be dealt with in the budget, but that it should also be looked at. I would certainly like to involve the Court of Auditors and also the Minister for Finance in his system role. I think that the Prime Minister is doing a little too light on the proposal that is being made from the Chamber. Anyway, otherwise, we'll ask for an address in the Chamber. That's fine, too. My question is, where is the urgency with the Prime Minister? If he sees what the General Court writes down, if the Chamber is always struggling with how we should deal with the Ministry of Security and Justice, if there is always a call for more money and this cabinet says that the solution is not, then the Cabinet itself should also contribute to the solution and see how we can get into control as quickly as possible. That's in everyone's best interest. Anyway, we'll file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u39	That's special, because then there's going to be a motion on something I just promised. I don't think that's necessary. I admit that we are taking this into account in the budget, that we will seriously consider it more than three sentences. The Minister of Finance oversees all budgets from his inspection role of state finances. It's just gonna be okay. I'm really against very separate accountability letters and accountability. That is how I understood Mr Koolmees; if I understood that wrong, that is a misunderstanding. Then we are only working on this and we are not going to implement these changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mrs Schouten, I give you the opportunity to give a response, because perhaps it is a shame to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u41	What we are proposing is in the middle of what the Prime Minister now calls 'bringing a sentence into the budget' on the one hand and 'that big project' on the other. We want a separate report, but it is simply sent with the budget to the Chamber, also with the general Court of Auditors' eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u42	OM-boss Bolhaar said this morning in an interview: we are being put on the wrong track with the story "The Netherlands is getting safer." Now the Prime Minister is actually doing the same thing again. He comes up with a few positive stories and says very lightly: everything is going to be fine; there is little going on; it is common in a reorganisation that there are some problems. But that is not Mr Bolhaar's signal. He says: we are instantly suffering from serious crime that we do not have in the clutches; something must be done for the police and the judiciary. What is the Prime Minister's view of the solution that is really urgently needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u43	In the triple I just discussed with Mr Omtzigt. 1. What are the concrete results? They're good. 2. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of necessary improvements? The Ministry is taking the necessary measures. 3. This aspect: how do you deal with the concerns about the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, detectives and police. I have just said that in this case the Minister himself is asking for these improvement plans. He asked the State's Attorney's Office for that improvement plan. That will also be discussed with the State's Attorney's Office. We are looking at how we can achieve this. That will soon be shared with the Chamber. That's exactly how it's done. I'm not running away from that. I just said that the results are there. At the same time, the renovation is still ongoing. Things take time sometimes. It is important that the Minister and Secretary of State are on top of it and ask for those plans themselves, and they do. I do not know what else Mr Bontes would want from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u44	I would like to see butter in the fish sector, namely that these enormous capacity problems are solved immediately. For example, 10% of police capacity is concerned with managing the asylum crisis. So 10% of the capacity cannot be used for serious crime or solving cases that lie on the shelf. You've lost that capacity. I'd like to see that compensated from now on. That could be very good. There's at least 500 million in the asylum reserve jar. If you add it up, it's $800 million. Let a large proportion, for example 500 million, now flow directly to police for tackling serious crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u45	In general terms, I said about financing: 310, structurally 250 million, was added to the debate with the Chamber last year. It was also promised by the Minister and the Secretary of State that they will review the way in which some of the concerns that the Chamber had in establishing the budget will be dealt with in the Spring Paper and in the 2017 budget. They'll report to the Chamber on that, too. The spring note is coming very soon. The budget will, of course, come in September. I can't anticipate that. Mr Bontes understands that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u46	It sounds a little light on me, too. We have had a great deal of input into which parliamentary groups expressed great concern. The Prime Minister says: well, there are some problems; we have a reorganisation, which we are working hard on until the last day and then we will be fine. If so, would the Prime Minister dare say: I guarantee the Chamber through the General Court that there will be no serious shortcomings for these three ministries next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'll be with the DOD in a minute, because that's multiannual. Warranties, I've said before, are only on vacuum cleaners. I can guarantee that we are working very hard on this and that we want to resolve this, but I cannot give time guarantees here. The plan of Security and Justice is to implement the change in the control system in 2016. This is what we are working on all year round. We also see how this is reflected in the budget. That's more than just a sentence, I'm gonna say to Mrs Schouten. We will address that seriously, even as she suggested. We will see this later in the reports of the Court of Auditors. So there is every guarantee that we are on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u48	This has been going on in the three ministries for a few years, at least for a year or two if you get the facts straight. The Prime Minister could say the following with a year, right? Of course, I would like to make an effort to ensure that the Chamber always assumes that the Ministers and State Secretary are working hard, but I dare to give a result obligation for this; next year these problems will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u49	What we always do is work hard to solve the problems as quickly as possible. However, you can never anticipate unexpected problems in advance. Full commitment, total focus is also with the rulers. They want to fix this, too. We're gonna see how fast we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u50	I am going to Mr Merkies, because I think we have now had the blocks of general introduction and then Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u51	I've had it now. I'm gonna go to the D.O.D.'s when the round of questions is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u52	If his question concerns the previous point, Mr Merkies may intervene. He hasn't come yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u53	The general introduction is over. So the commercial break is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u54	I've now dealt with Security and Justice, and I'll be right back to the questions about Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u55	I have a question about the criminal justice chain. The Prime Minister says things are getting better, but we don't really know that. That is precisely the problem, because it cannot be properly accounted for. That's what the police say. New targets are being set, new units of measurement are being set. So it's kind of weird that the Prime Minister says "we do know," because that's not the case. Let us look at what the police themselves report: in the South of the Netherlands, 400 arrests led to only six convictions. That's not a hopeful picture, is it? The figures from the field thus show a very different picture. Does the Prime Minister recognize that image? Does he think that we should work much harder on it, so that the police can report to us and we can see it too? Now he's basically throwing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u56	That is why the Minister for Security and Justice has adjusted the pace of the reorganisation of the national police. That was reported to the Chamber in 2015. An evaluation has been carried out at that rate. In December 2014, the Minister of Security and Justice asked for an exact map. The pace has been adjusted. The Chamber was also informed about this in 2015. This is indeed a typical subject which shows that the police are working terribly hard and are achieving good results, while at the same time the introduction of the national police is a major reorganisation that takes place while the shop is open and the work continues. Let us pay tribute to each other for all those men and women on the streets, but also in the leadership, who are working very hard on that. It is therefore wise for the Minister to say that he is correcting that. I hear a couple of spokesmen say, "Rutte talks about that a little too easy." I'm not doing that at all. I'm making a very clear distinction. There is serious criticism from the Court of Auditors. This criticism was taken up with extra strength in November last year in order to avoid that serious imperfection in subsequent years. Mr Dijkgraaf asks me to give a guarantee. At least he has a guarantee that we will work hard on it. I also mention the results, because I want to talk proudly about these 110,000 people who appear in the field for all of us, every day, and ensure that we can live in safety and perform incredibly well there. But sometimes the concern is whether there is enough money, sometimes there is concern about the changes, sometimes about the combination and sometimes we can organize things smarter. I'm not running away from that. I am not downplaying that, but I will separate it from the fact that, in the meantime, good results are being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u57	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u58	Let there be no mistake that these people are doing their best and doing their own good work, but the criminal justice chain must cooperate. A few years ago, when there were problems, Opstelten said: yes, but we get the national police. We have seen that its introduction has caused more problems. I was just talking about 400 arrests that led to only six convictions. This is what the police report themselves. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? Surely the level of ambition must be higher to make the Netherlands safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u59	I don't go into every indicator, every detail figure. This is where we talk at system level; that's what the Accountability debate is for. Where are the problems, what is going well and what is not going well? The General Court has once again done excellent work and has also given important homework to politics. That's what we're talking about here today. As far as this serious imperfection is concerned, all the actions started in November last year. Others might say that they should have done so sooner, because that imperfection was already there for a while. In any case, I note that since the major reorganisation of November last year, the control function is beginning to take shape, and so it should be. That's important. After all, it is about our safety. People need to be protected by these 110,000 men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr Omtzigt, do you have a question to add to this point? You have just spoken about Security and Justice, and the Prime Minister has just begun his general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yeah, and he's already done Security and Justice. The Prime Minister joins the Minister of Security and Justice: the chain works. I have some very nice figures here. I can always think of three that are good. I'm a statistician, I know how you do it. Did the Prime Minister read the interview this morning with the D.A.'s highest-ranking officer? It says: there are parallel realities; in a number of areas crime is falling, but we are seriously questioning the heavier spectrum. He's talking about invisible, about a dark web he can't get a grip on. A lot of crime is underground. You have to look it up to see it. There's no reason to be comfortable. There are new forms of crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u62	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u63	The picture of the parallel realities is sketched by the highest public prosecutor in the Netherlands itself. Here's a cabinet saying everything's okay in the chain. Is Mr Bolhaar wrong, or is Mr Van der Steur wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u64	This is really a repeat of moves. This is, of course, at the request of the Minister. He has asked the Public Prosecutor: report to me where things need to be better, especially when it comes to the heavier issues and the things that are going on in the dark; the big connections. That is what Mr Bolhaar is talking about in the interview, exactly how it should be done. We just had the discussion, Mr Omtzigt and I. You have to note that thanks to the 110,000 men and women in Security and Justice, all the points I have mentioned show greatly improved results compared to the year before. I also refer to the National Crime Meter in the Algemeen Dagblad last Saturday. The country as a whole has become safer. At the same time, things are not going well; hence the Minister and the Secretary of State himself are asking for reports on all these issues to improve things. Sometimes it has to do with ongoing reorganisations. It may also have to do with money or other things. They then take the right actions. If you find that the country has become safer in 2015, it would be crazy not to write that down because there are still major problems to be solved at the same time. It is both true, as I have just said to Mr Omtzigt. So we're going to repeat it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u65	I can see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u66	I've been talking about how the criminal justice chain works. The Prime Minister says it's better, but the CDA says it's worse than last year. That's what the boss of the police says, and that's what the boss of the D.A. says, and that's what the numbers show. Business is being dismissed. Thousands of people have been convicted, but are not imprisoned. If you read the report of the General Court, which states that the situation is worse than last year, we have gone from an imperfection to a serious imperfection. How can you, as a cabinet, maintain that it has all gotten better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u67	I've outlined that we've gone from six imperfections to four. Indeed, one of them has become serious. In November 2015, a lot of things were set in motion, including financial management and the control function, to solve this problem. See my discussion on this with Mr Dijkgraaf who provoked me. Do I give guarantees? Yeah, on the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u68	I have a question about unbundling. We all note that V and J are too large, too complex and not in control. Even the group chairman of the VVD indicated last Saturday that thinking about the size of the ministry is a real option. There's been an accepted First Chamber motion. Now the Prime Minister says: there will be a piece and we will put it down on the formation table. I find that very strange. It seems to me to be part of the political debate on the future of the rule of law and the police. Is it not wise to put that down before the elections? Then what is the choice is also transparent. Hence my request that this analysis be made public on 1 January or 1 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u69	I have already answered the question; then I am going to repeat myself. I said this is really something for the election programs. Anyone can write whatever they want. The cabinet is not a scientific agency that provides input for election programmes. We come up with notes containing the cabinet's views. In addition, elections are coming. I understand very well how you are asked how you can avoid sitting at the table during the formation, without knowing the variants for the different areas. This is an example of that. I think it is logical that the cabinet should be asked to ensure that the variants are passed on and that they are on the table. But if we are asked to send variants to the Chamber that we do not want, that puts the cabinet in a state-law impossible position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u70	This often happens when motions are passed, and this is a motion that has been adopted by the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u71	We will therefore also carry it out; I have already indicated the timing. In the case of Defense, too, an imperfection became a serious imperfection in 2014. Fortunately, the number of deficiencies in the defence sector has fallen from seven to five in total, one of which has become serious. It has to do with the logistics chain and the spare parts. The additional intensification provided for in the 2016 budget is therefore particularly devoted to strengthening the basic capacity of the armed forces. The Minister of Defence outlined this week in a general discussion that it would take some time for the effect of this intensification to be felt. You can't do that overnight. It's a very important step and a tangible proof of the trend break. It is also in line with the Van der Staaij motion, which calls for extra money for Defence. Again, we have decided to work in particular on that very important logistics chain including procurement. That can never be arranged at once, but the extra money is there and is spent on it, at least for a large part. However, we are also dealing with delivery times and other very practical issues in the defence industry. Like I said, you can never solve overnight. Maybe it's okay if I answer all the other questions about Defense before there's any interruptions. Well, at least we'll know for sure that I wasn't already planning on answering it, and it would matter time. However, I see now that I have already answered all the questions about the defence industry, my apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u72	I give the opportunity to brief questions and brief interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u73	It is a good thing that the Prime Minister is working on the military to make the parts ready and usable again. The CDA Group has a very practical question on this. The annual reports did not state the current situation with regard to the components. The latest information on this date dates back to September. Since it has been so downhill, I wonder if the government is prepared to report on one A4 every quarter how things stand with the various armies, so that we can get an insight into the process. If it's okay, that A4's hanging on the inside of the Secretary of Defense's closet. After all, it is regularly questioned whether troops can already be deployed. At that point, she needs to know if they're ready, so this can't cost much extra work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u74	We are not going to do any new additional reports, except those already provided for in the budget. It is not just one sentence, I will say to Mrs Schouten once more. We will always take this seriously, especially when it comes to a debate on accountability. If it can get a place in the budget, it will. However, we are not going to set up separate control systems. That would take a lot of money and a lot of time and we would like to devote it to carrying out these intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u75	Finally, an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u76	That's not an extra control system. I hope, however, that the Minister, or at least the staff, knows immediately which armies are ready and that we can only deploy one of the 18 NH90 helicopters, for example. We are not asking for an additional control system, but simply to share that with the Chamber every year, so that she knows whether those helicopters are finally flying and whether those mechanized brigades are really mechanized or whether they are on foot. Is the Prime Minister prepared to ensure that this letter is sent to the Chamber every quarter, or does he invite me to ask it every quarter through parliamentary questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u77	That last one. We're not gonna send any more letters to the Chamber other than what's already happening. I don't think this is gonna work. There are a lot of intensive debates with the Secretary of Defense on a lot of subjects. She is one of the ministers most in the Chamber. During these debates there is always a detailed discussion on this type of subject. I am really not in favour of setting up separate systems and sending additional letters. We are trying to streamline this much more through the normal control and accountability systems, such as this day, Prince's Day and the other moments when the different departments, sometimes very specifically tailored to the department, give their reports. Nothing extra; that's really my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u78	One final point: the readiness of military units was not even included in the annual report. For that we had to read the reports of the General Court. There is a serious problem there. I really believe that the Prime Minister and the Minister are working hard to improve this, also because this was almost always due to the parts and never to the military themselves, which proved to be trained, but how can the Chamber have an insight into that information? Does the Chamber have to wait a year to know if this policy is successful? Is there no possibility to report this interim at the level at which this was reported to the Chamber in September 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u79	The Minister of Defence has here a dozen debates on personnel policy, material policy and financial management, which, fortunately, is beginning to get organized by the Ministry of Defence. That was a concern when we started. She has worked very hard on this, together with the Minister of Finance. There's gonna be money for the DOD now, too. There is a motion by Mr Van der Staaij, with the aim of: if there is space in the future, do so again. I cannot say anything about that, but as a cabinet we have often said that we use this Van der Staaij motion as a guideline. I want to avoid asking the Ministry to send more paper to the Chamber independently of the existing normal, very intensive reports. I really don't think we're gonna solve the problems with that. Now let's get people to work on how to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u80	The Prime Minister has the same tactics on this point as on the previous part, which is consistent in itself. He says that he gives no guarantees and that there is an effort obligation and "step by step." For unforeseen matters, as the Prime Minister indicated, I understand. If the outside world changes and if a war breaks out somewhere that we can't foresee right now, I get it. But with regard to the things that we now know, the analyses that are there and the problems that exist, can the Prime Minister simply say that he has an obligation to achieve results on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u81	Eventually, but also on this point, Mr Dijkgraaf will probably ask to do so at the end of this year or at the end of next year. Even then, I'll answer the same question. This is even more pragmatous than the previous section, because it is also very much about the availability of defence equipment, which must also be ordered. These delivery periods may vary, and you also have to deal with the defence industry, which has to supply the equipment. Of course, you can never give very firm guarantees on that point. The Minister has also explained in general consultation that it will really take some time for you to see the effects of strengthening basic readiness in day-to-day operations as well. But there can be no doubt that Mr Dijkgraaf and I really agree that last year's intensifications are really being used to an important extent to strengthen the basic strength of the armed forces. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u82	The Prime Minister and the Cabinet could say that, in budgetary terms, it is a serious deficiency in the defence sector that we do not comply with the NATO standard. The cabinet says that this will not be resolved next year, nor does it propose it, because it will have to add 5.2 billion, and there is no such thing. However, the cabinet could say that it chooses to solve this in ten years. At least that way, the DOD will finally know where she is. Now there is a salami tactic of one step at a time. The cabinet does not choose the end point: will there really be a solution and are we really going to a decent level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u83	These are different things. On the one hand, there is the question of basic competence and the question of the defence of national territory, which fortunately is not under discussion. The last Court of Auditors report mentioned a concern on the basis of the basic facts. As I have already outlined, we are working on it. What Mr Dijkgraaf now refers to is another aspect, namely the 2% NATO standard. He knows that it is particularly important now, so I have always interpreted the motion of his foreman, Mr Van der Staaij, in order to achieve that motion and the ideas contained therein step by step, without setting us on some kind of timetable. With such a timetable, you would in advance, with all the cabinets in between, namely create some sort of false security. I'm not talking about the 2%. That is what we agreed on earlier, and that is what we committed ourselves to in NATO, but there would be false certainty if we now committed ourselves politically with a timetable. I think it is much better to establish that this motion is there and that the cabinet feels very obliged to work along that line and, if there is money available, to keep looking at whether you could give some of it back to the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u84	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u85	The Prime Minister is now saying that multiannual budgets are a sham security. That is, in fact, the brief summary of his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u86	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u87	We could simply say: for the next ten years, the cabinet will withdraw this budget and we will cover it. At least then the DOD will know that it can work on real solutions and that the basics will be really good. That doesn't necessarily have to be next year. The sooner, the better, but there's a real perspective. Now everyone has to wait and see what comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u88	I maintain that this is a false certainty and that it is something other than multiannual budgets, which we establish here with each other. That's a really different matter. Here you talk about the NATO standard of 2%. I believe that we have made a political statement on this matter. We have also made a statement on the need, if possible, to reserve space for Defence in the coming years, also in the financial sense. We are. If that space is there, we will look at it again and again, also on the basis of that motion, and of course also on other matters, always in a good balance. Now we're talking basics. I share the concern at that point. Again, this does not affect the defence of the territory. I think we are taking a sensible step there, but it is a step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u89	Last year we were here too and then the same Prime Minister stood here with the same smooth talk. However, I would like to welcome the Court of Auditors' observation that there is a serious flaw in the maintenance of defence equipment, that equipment is stationary and that tackling problems is slow and uncoordinated. The conclusion is therefore that at first 77% was operational and now 59%. Half of the equipment is stationary due to poor maintenance coordination. We believe what the commitment is, but the question is what the obligation to achieve results is by the end of the year. How much equipment is driving? So what is the operational employability of the equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u90	It would adorn Mr Van Dijck, also in the direction of defence, if he said that we now went back to five from seven imperfections last year. That may be said here too. That's still five too many. One of them has become serious, because it has been on it for a number of years. Why is that? Because it takes a number of years for you to solve this and because the actual financial shift to more money was only possible in the budget recently. That's what the Secretary of Defense argued in the Chamber. I have just outlined in reply to Mr Dijkgraaf that it takes some time for you to see this reflected in strengthening the basic rationale, if only because you have to order the stuff and you can't always get everything right away. You're also competing with other countries that have to order stuff. There is a defence industry and it has to be able to deliver, but the money that we can now spend in addition goes here as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u91	The Court of Auditors explicitly says that it is not just a question of money. Word around here is it's gonna be okay if we throw a bunch of money at it. No, the maintenance process is not in order and addressing problems is uncoordinated. That has nothing to do with money. That has to do with planning and organization. I would like to know what the result obligation is by the end of the year. Can the Prime Minister say that, just like before, 77% of the equipment is operational? That is an obligation to achieve results and that is what the Chamber can pay him for, but it is too noncommittal to just say: we are doing our stinking best, we are waiting for a bag of money and we can see which equipment is ever going to be driven again. Operational employability would then have fallen from 59% to 34% if we were here next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u92	Of course, Mr Van Dijck is right that it is not just a financial matter. It's also a matter of organization. May I say, however, that the use of Defence in many temporary employment areas is, of course, a major shift in the organisation at the moment? I have great respect for all the military involved, on smaller missions but certainly also on larger missions, such as the fight against ISIS in Syria and Iraq, and helping the UN mission to stabilise the situation in Mali, involving many hundreds of soldiers. That really is a different situation than in the 1980s. Then we had a big mission in Lebanon, later Bosnia joined, but the number of deployments from Defence in Africa, the Middle East and other parts of the world is really a factor more complex than in the past. I think it is important for the balance sheet to note this as well. Yeah, it can always be better. It can also be organized in a more practical way in the organisation. We take the recommendations and suggestions made by the Court of Auditors extremely seriously, but there is also a financial side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u93	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u94	And there's another side. I've already told you a few times that you should be able to order the equipment as well. It has to be there and it has to be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u95	If you can't live up to it, maybe you should start thinking about changing your ambitions. Then perhaps it is time for us to leave Mali, to secure our own territory again. But this Prime Minister doesn't. He wants to help around the world, and eventually our soldiers are sitting here crying "pang-pang-pang." That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u96	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u97	This really is the PVV, which assumes that the Netherlands is an island and is not threatened by others. We're in there for two reasons. Firstly, we feel a responsibility to help bring stability to parts of the world where there is great instability. Secondly, however, we are doing so also in our own interest. I hope Mr Van Dijck will see that it is also in the interests of the Netherlands if we fight against ISIS. If we in Mali are trying to combat large smuggling networks, possibly also those of terrorist organisations, this is also in the Dutch interest. If the PVV doesn't see that, she's really seeing blind. And I've had that feeling for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u98	I would like to move on to operational employability. That is a great concern of many parties in the House of Representatives. I think the Prime Minister is underlining that, too. Now, in a response to the General Court's investigation, the Secretary of Defense has indicated that there will be a so-called inter-departmental policy investigation at, among other things, Defence and Finance. When will that be done? I can imagine that it is in a hurry to carry out the investigation. I see the Prime Minister now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u99	In second term! We're gonna figure it out, and I'm gonna make sure that the Minister or me has an answer in the second term... I hear now that the Minister of Finance can answer the question in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u100	Good. Then I suggest you finish your speech now. I will not allow any interruption until the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u101	That's good, Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the whole issue of the social domain. The Minister for Finance will deal with this in particular. Let me say on this point that the work on municipal accounts is still under way. It cannot therefore yet be said that the care money has been spent unlawfully and that the annual accounts cannot be approved. The fact is that there are uncertainties about the spending of care money. Following consultations with VWS and BZK, the VNG (Dutch Association of Municipalities) and the NBA (Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants) published a joint letter to their supporters on 12 April. Those are municipalities and accountants. They advise on a practical and appropriate approach to the closure of the accounts. After that conclusion, BZK will analyse the corresponding audit statements of the auditors with the reports of the findings and send the results to the Lower House after the summer. I'm going into the labour market now. I've been hearing all kinds of stories about this for a while: is that money good or not well spent? I know one thing for sure: large job plans like we had in the Netherlands in the 1990s, with the milking lanes, or in the early 1980s, they don't work. They don't work because jobs have to be real jobs in the end. These must be jobs in the government, because they are really needed, but of course also in the business community, because that is where our common prosperity is created in the first place. This is, of course, done with the immediate help of the government. That's where it has to be. I started out as Secretary of State for Social Affairs in 2002. At that time I had my hands full on the issue of milking orbits; that was 80,000. In a third of the cases it concerned people who would really not get to work without support; for that it was useful. A third part concerned people who needed such a step for a while and could then work in a normal job. A third didn't need it at all. So there's a really big deadweight loss in there, to put it in jargon. What I like about what Louis Asscher is doing in this cabinet is that this issue is being handled much more intelligently. Now two things are being put together. The government becomes a place where employers, employees, municipalities, health care and business are brought together to find out what can be done to speed things up, whether for young people or for the elderly. You can't take jobs for 50-plussers out of the sky. You can't take jobs out of the sky for young people. You have to make sure you bring all the relevant parties together. The Minister for Social Affairs does so with his approach to employment policy. I therefore wholeheartedly support this. It is also in line with our policy for the top sectors and the social agreement of 2013. But somewhere in this Chamber some parties think differently. Among other things, I heard Mr Krol suggest that you can make a job if you have money. So you get fully subsidised jobs. We've seen in the past that this is the last thing you want. The government must use its conventional power. That is to say, it takes advantage of the fact that people come when they are called, whether they represent employers, workers or anyone else, and that they put these people together and organize things. That is exactly what is happening now and how the accompanying policy is designed to solve, in addition to the main cause of the decline in unemployment and rising employment, namely economic growth, specific bottlenecks for young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. I think that is a much more intelligent approach than the idea of creating 50-plus milking jobs or youth milking jobs. That really doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u102	We agreed that the Prime Minister should finish his speech first. After that, there is an opportunity for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u103	I'll finish it, Mr. Chairman. Many questions have already been answered by the excellent interruptions. I have one more point, and that's about MH17. Of the three objectives, the first two have been completed. The criminal investigation is still in full swing on the third objective. At present, more than 80 and at times even 100 detectives are still working on this case every day. As we know, this is carried out by a Joint Investigation Team under the direction of the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. It's an independent investigation. That is why I cannot comment on the outcome of the criminal investigation or the date on which it becomes known. I say to Mr Omtzigt that this team will help determine what will be the most effective prosecution position. We want to know the type of conclusions first from the Joint Investigation Team. A choice has to be made between a few variants. The main variant was vetted by Russia last year in the UN Security Council. It was a tribunal set up by the UN Security Council, but Russia's veto failed to do so. We now have a number of other variants in mind, together with Malaysia, Australia, Ukraine and Belgium. We have five countries on this Joint Investigation Team. You can only make that choice if you know what type of case the Joint Investigation Team and the Public Prosecutor will eventually submit. We'll do this with five of us. These days, too, there is consultation between the five. Again, as soon as the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team have more focus on the type of case, we also know which prosecution mechanism is best suited to that. Then there's always the demand for the radar images. I said last time in the debate that if the Public Prosecutor or in the past the OVV asks me or Minister Koenders "call them on" or "rule with that organization that they come with stuff," then they will immediately be phoned. We never do that ourselves, because if I were to call these authorities, there would be a political fingerprint on the investigation. This means that the results of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Joint Investigation Team will no longer be pure in the eyes of other parties. We never do. We only work on behalf of the Joint Investigation Team, because I have only one goal, namely I will say it nicely to arrest, prosecute, bring those who are behind this to justice and disappear behind bars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u104	Were you finished with your part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u105	I was done with my part. The Minister of Finance will, with your permission, deal with the other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u106	Then I give the floor to Mr Krol. Sorry, Mr. Bontes, but he was early.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u107	However, I would like to respond to what the Prime Minister says, namely that I would suggest that the cabinet should take jobs out of the sky for 50-plussers. That's the last thing I'm suggesting. I find it almost insulting that the Prime Minister is saying that in my direction. On the contrary, I want the policy to be tackled, that the rules should be looked at and that we should look together to see if we can get that group back to work. He shouldn't say things I didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u108	Well, that's good, 'cause then we're gonna have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u109	I find the outline given by the Prime Minister on employment and what may or may not work a little bizarre. We have to establish that what this cabinet is doing is not working. In the area of youth unemployment, we are not getting anywhere. We're almost back up. In March 2015, we had the so-called lowest point: 10.8% youth unemployment, which is still far too high, and now it is 11.2%. It's not taking off. We must note that the commitment made by the cabinet is not effective. I made a comparison with possibilities that have been applied in the past. That's not because, by definition, I think this was the ideal method, but it was effective. The tens of thousands that the Prime Minister mentioned, which he may once have had to get out of a settlement, had first come into a settlement and did meaningful work and were therefore part of the working population. In the case of school leavers, I see a huge risk that a group doesn't get up after training. If things get a little better, this group will be overtaken by those who then come from the training. That's when a lost generation comes into existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u110	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u111	Specific additional measures must be taken. Can the Prime Minister state what he is going to do and what is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u112	Femke Halsema is far away from GroenLinks, because he would never have spoken this kind of lyrics, I am sure of that. The cabinet works with a three-track policy. We strengthen the economy. This leads to an increase in employment for all. We can see that, too. There have never been so many jobs in Dutch history as at present. We can also see that unemployment is falling. It has to go further down, but it has already decreased considerably in the past year. After a hesitant decline, it continued. The second point concerns bottlenecks in the labour market. This is an important element of Lodewijk Asscher's employment policy. Parties are brought together to ensure that bottlenecks are removed. In addition, we have all kinds of very specific schemes that should not fall into re-subsidised work. We are paying close attention to this, because that is not going to work, and I would just like to say to Mr Grashoff. The inflow-through routes were a success for a limited group, but in the vast majority of cases there was a huge displacement effect on the labour market and cost a lot of money. This meant that a lot of people had a job that they would have had otherwise very likely, as all studies have shown. That's the last thing you want. With a one-off subsidy, we managed to transfer a very large group to ordinary jobs. If it had been up to certain parties then, it would have continued. Let me mention another arrangement which we believe can work well. That's the low-income advantage. This is an instrument specifically aimed at the group at the bottom of the labour market. This makes it more attractive for employers to hire people. We do not yet know what its effects are, because that scheme is going to come into force, but the experts say that such a low income advantage, which makes it attractive to employ people who are more difficult to get into work, works much better than a grant job. These are people who receive an ordinary contract of employment, where the employer only receives an additional subsidy on wage costs. The same applies to other arrangements we have. The Mobility Bonus will be housed in 2018 in the Benefits Act. This partly solves the problem of pay-as-you-go for employers. These are all very concrete measures, with a specific target. You cannot charge a cabinet or the Chamber itself for the question, completely abstracted from economic growth, whether we aim to have so many youth jobs or so many jobs for the elderly. You should put a planned economy on that, and we all know about the Soviet Union where that ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u113	I still have to establish that the Prime Minister is always not responding to what the cabinet has done so far is not effective. There is economic growth, but unemployment is virtually unchanged. If this continues, it will take us until 2030 to reach equilibrium unemployment again. I would like to mention specific groups which should receive special attention outside general economic policy. The Prime Minister keeps ignoring that in one way or another. He comes up with examples of a non-existent reality. I would like to hear from the cabinet what it is going to do to achieve significant results. They can't be avoided, can they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u114	For example, we ensure that, if there is room for it, relief is used in such a way that it has a maximum effect on employment. I remember that a lot of parties wanted to give relief to all kinds of other groups, but we deliberately chose to give relief to low-income workers up to and including the middle groups. This has the greatest impact on employment, if the public authorities can do things with relief or other measures. What really doesn't work is setting up fully subsidised jobs, as apparently snuck into GroenLinks' thinking; I highly recommend the beautiful memoirs of Femke Halsema. Mr Grashoff must therefore be fair about the fact that this is the answer to which he is heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u115	You may respond, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u116	That seems fair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u117	With 5 billion relief, this cabinet creates a lousy 35,000 long-term jobs. Now that's ineffective policy. That is what I think: if you think you are going to pursue employment policy in this way, you can get through it at some point. That's what the Cabinet does. I don't hear better solutions from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u118	That was a statement and not a question from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u119	We should leave that with Mr Grashoff, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u120	I call Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u121	It is a very good thing that we are also considering the victims of MH17 today. We must never forget that. Almost every debate you should bring up the subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u122	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u123	...so that the murder of almost 200 Dutch people doesn't slip between our fingers. I would like to know from the Prime Minister when the next of kin and the Dutch people will be told about the launch facility. The Public Prosecutor's Office has promised that we will have a clear picture before the summer of where that missile was launched and what type it is. In any case, there would be more and new information for the next of kin and other Dutch people who follow this closely. Can the Prime Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u124	I can't, and I don't want to, because that's not what we're about. I have had this discussion with Mr Bontes so many times. It starts so well, because I very much agree with him that we cannot have enough attention to each other for this terrible fact. In the five and a half years that I have this job, it's by far the most impactful event. For the people who've been through it, it's a thousand times worse. I have often said that our suffering as politicians is not a promille in proportion to the people who have lost their loved ones. Of course, as I know, Mr Bontes, we are all extremely involved in this since the first debate, but I would like to say once again that the criminal investigation is independent. So I can never comment on the outcome of that or the date on which it becomes known. There's only one instance that can do that: the Joint Investigation Team. I'll never make the mistake of saying to them, "You have to do sister or something." Or, do I have to call that one again or that one? They can call me and say they need my help. They know that, because they hear that every two weeks when we sit together to talk about whether there is a need for logistical help and whether they want anything else. But I'm not gonna ask any questions about it. I don't want to know. As soon as I know, I'll have to report it to the Chamber, and when I report it to the Chamber, there's a political fingerprint on the investigation. Then the chances of the results of the investigation leading to actual prosecution, trial and detention of the perpetrators are reduced. Our common objective must be to maximise the possibility of prosecution, trial and detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u125	I disagree with the cramped separation between the work of the D.A. and politics. You can't disconnect them from each other; that's just the way it is. It was also a political attack. That's why it's weird to separate the rigid from each other. Anyway, the Prime Minister is responsible for that and he is talking about his own words. I don't agree. Maybe he can say something about the initiative I took to raise radar images and to bring it up with ICAO, the international aviation organisation. Does the Prime Minister see any possibility of this happening? After all, this will have to be done from the Netherlands. We've moved on for months now and very little is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u126	This is such total bullshit! There are 100 people on that case every day. But that's what they do behind closed doors. If they do that in public, what are the chances that these people will eventually manage to figure out who did it and to prosecute and lock them up? The same applies to Mr Bontes' question. We fundamentally disagree on this, really fundamental. I only have one goal: to get those creeps caught and locked up. I'm not gonna do anything that can stand in the way of that. If I were to follow Mr Bontes' suggestion and get involved in that investigation, I would give a free pass to countries, agencies or people who have an interest in saying: look, there is a political fingerprint on that investigation. I'll give them the chance to do the same with authority. So that's an unwise trajectory. We shouldn't do that. We really shouldn't. I'll repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Bontes, finally. Short!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u128	This really doesn't make any sense, because bringing that case to ICAO isn't a matter for the state at all, it's a matter for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u129	I am giving Mr Omtzigt an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u130	I mean, there could be a reaction to that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u131	I refer to the previous answer. I think we've said all about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u132	I had another question about MH17, but I am going to pick up Mr Bontes' question. I understand very well that the Prime Minister does not want to know daily what is being found by the JIT, because that is an independent investigation. It's about suing a case because of radar images that have been deliberately, so premeditated, erased. That's what the OVV could have seen. In Annex V, page 2, column 3 of the report, the OVV stated that he asked ICAO if his lecture was correct that they should not have been erased, and that ICAO confirmed that. Then it is a government decision to complain to ICAO or not. That is also outside the criminal proceedings and outside the criminal proceedings. What is the reason why the Dutch Government has so far decided not to do so at ICAO, when it is sure that it will win?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u133	Because we'll only do that if the D.A., the Joint Investigation Team, asked us to. I also refer to the previous answer. If we are going to do this on our own, that would mean that we have views on this, that we think something of it. Mr Omtzigt's suggestion and question have already drawn a number of conclusions. We can do two things with MH17. We can try to prejudify here, get ahead of what's happened. Of course, we have all kinds of ideas. We all see Bellingcat's reports and we see other things in the paper. Beyond reasonable doublet, without any doubt, the JIT should be able to determine who did it. It needs to see how we can get those people prosecuted, how we can get those people tried, and how we can possibly lock them up, depending on the outcome of that trial. This requires the cooperation of all kinds of countries. If the Dutch Government intervenes in this case in any way, without the Joint Investigation Team being responsible for that, it will be harmful. And, I mean that, that's also a matter for ICAO. In addition, although you would like to do so, it is not legally possible to apply it to ICAO, because then there must be two countries that fight against each other. That is not the case. So it can't be legal. But even if it could legally, even in my view, it is really unwise for the reason I mention here. However, this calls for a fundamental debate on the objective. We've been having that debate for a while, but we disagree on that. My goal is that eventually the people can be caught and then brought to justice. So I'm not gonna do anything that eventually gives bodies, people and countries the chance to say: well, you see, they already knew what was going on; it wasn't independent, it wasn't objective, it's politically influenced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u134	The Prime Minister is confusing two research flows here. The first is the research of the OVV. According to the international conventions, the OVV had a legal right to the radar images of MH17. If those primary raw radar images had been available, the rocket would most likely have been visible on it. Professor Van Garderen has confirmed that here in the Chamber. Russia confirmed it had those radar footage. If a country has subsequently not made those radar images available to that investigation, the Netherlands should lodge a complaint with ICAO. That's what doesn't happen. That's different from the whole JIT investigation. I do indeed expect the Minister to wait, in that regard, for questions from the Public Prosecutor's Office to assist, if necessary, or not. The OVV has found that the Russians have not complied with the treaty. Why didn't the Dutch Government intervene in ICAO? In the meantime, has there been a question from the D.A. or the police to go after those radar footage for the judicial investigation? How that happened, I don't need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u136	I'm not even gonna answer that last one. I'm not gonna tell you in public what kind of requests come from the Joint Investigation Team, am I? I do not understand Mr Omtzigt. I know that, like Mr Bontes, he has been very involved in this matter from the very first moment, including the next of kin. I have no doubt about that. I know he's on that subject at least as much as I am and he's concerned about it. What would he think of what would happen if I reported here in public whether or not there are requests from the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Joint Investigation Team or requests to call them? What do you think that means? What kind of reaction would that call for internationally? And as far as ICAO is concerned, that is not legal. Even if it could legally, I wouldn't want it if it wasn't an assignment of the Joint Investigation Team, because it's about radar images. I'm gonna keep repeating myself, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u137	I am sorry, Mr Omtzigt, but this debate has been held very often. I appeal to you. I know that the debate on responsibility is about everything and everything, and so is this. However, it must be shorter. I notice that we are constantly repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u138	The person who reported that no request had been made by the D.A. was the Minister of Security and Justice, Mr Van der Steur. If the Prime Minister says that he will never make a statement about this and that it is ridiculous, he said that the Minister for Security and Justice has made a ridiculous statement to the Chamber. I hope this is not the case. During the hearing in the Chamber, ICAO confirmed that the procedure could be initiated by the Netherlands, because the Netherlands was entitled to the radar images and Russia should not have erased them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u139	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u140	Does the Dutch Government recognise that it can initiate that procedure or does it wish to demonstrate that ICAO was wrong? What does the Prime Minister think of the fact that Minister Van der Steur himself has brought up the fact that the D.A. never asked for radar images?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u141	I really refer to the previous answer. I'm falling into repetitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u143	This isn't an answer, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u144	I refer to the Acts. That's where you see the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u145	I'd like to talk about something else before the Prime Minister sits down. He's been Prime Minister of this country for six years. He always says he's Prime Minister of all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u146	From Mr Van Dijck, too, it is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u147	Of all the Dutch. Now there is a group in the Netherlands that has been hit hard in its purchasing power for eight years, namely pensioners. The Prime Minister has been able to see on the paper handed over by Mr Krol how things have been broken up. Yesterday, the PVV proposed to give the interest advantage of the ECB's policy as it is known, the interest rate is set at zero to the group that is hit hard by that same policy. The Minister of Finance has just received this interest rate advantage for free and for nothing. This is money found. What is the position of the Prime Minister as the Prime Minister of all the Dutch on this sympathetic proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u148	I have often said that the PVV is becoming more and more like the old CPN: higher wages and lower prices. You can not only give away the benefits of the budget, because there are also disadvantages. At the moment, we are missing billions of previously expected natural gas revenues. That is also for a good reason, namely the misery that is going on with the earthquakes in Groningen. That is a very good reason, but it leads to billions less state revenue. What is Mr Van Dijck doing as financial spokesman for the PVV? It hasn't improved since 2012 at the Catshuis. I personally like Mr Van Dijck, but the financial ingenuity there has been reduced. He says: we spend the benefits and we ignore the fact that all kinds of things have gone wrong. He only spends the windfalls. If we buried like this, it'd be a nice place. Then there's purchasing power development. Thanks for the copy. I believe it came from Mr Krol. We see that the purchasing power of older people has remained stable over the period 2000-2015. It wasn't taken. We have always succeeded, every year, over and over, in repairing the purchasing power picture as best we can. If there was room for burden relief, we have given it very consciously to low- and middle-income workers, because it has the most important employment aspects. I'll tell you why the elderly are there for that. Older people have children and grandchildren. They ask only two things: I want my purchasing power to stay at its level and we will do so and I want you to make this country stronger and my children and grandchildren have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u149	I hardly have any words for it, but as Prime Minister, you've been hitting pensioners hard for six years. It is indeed zero nominal, without taking inflation with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u150	That is the development of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u151	It has everything to do with the fact that you are not afraid that the Malieveld is full of elderly people, because it does not affect the economy. You're just focused on the deficit and the economy. The advantage that this Minister of Finance gains because of the policy of the ECB, which even this Prime Minister does not agree with, the advantage that he is being thrown into his lap, does not need to include this Minister of Finance in my proposal. That is precisely what I am giving to that group that is being undermined by that same policy of the ECB. It is not for nothing that I say: he benefits and they are doomed!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u152	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u153	Why should this Minister of Finance benefit from a policy of the ECB which he himself does not agree with, and why should another group, which cannot do anything about it, be on the blister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u154	Sometimes with Mr Krol you see something of the VVD-blood, he comes with a good state. It is not about the number of euros, it is about purchasing power development. What can you eventually buy for what you get? That's what it says right here. Then you can see that the purchasing power of older people has been maintained. Thanks to Mr Krol, that is perfectly clear. The workers have indeed improved a little, but that is also necessary. In a decent, social country, you try not only to maintain their purchasing power, but also to increase the purchasing power of the elderly with the development of prosperity. Because of the enormous problems with the economic crisis, this was not possible, but as a cabinet we managed to maintain purchasing power. We were able to do so with thanks to many parties in this Chamber who could also help us get a majority in the First Chamber and have always insisted very strongly on it, just like the two coalition parties. That is one side of Mr Van Dijk's story. So it doesn't make any sense what he's saying about that. The second side is that it really is a voodoo public finance policy if you only spend windfalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u156	Just for a second. If the Prime Minister here claims that the purchasing power has remained with the pensioners, then he has either got a blow from the mill, or he is staring blindly at some table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u157	It's from your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u158	Everyone knows that pensioners in the Netherlands have been turning in purchasing power for eight years. Even the CPB knows that, only this prime minister doesn't. He's in denial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u159	It's Mr. Krol's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u160	Mr Krol, what do you think of the explanatory statement on your chart?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u161	He's right, but very partially. I would like the Prime Minister to look very closely at the graph again, because then he will see that purchasing power has not remained the same, but has indeed fallen. If you take that off against the workers, who have improved 30 points, then I ask whether that is a balanced distribution. I would say that, as the economy is getting better, older people are also entitled to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u162	We are coming out of the worst economic crisis in recent history. As a parliament and as a government, we have managed to maintain the purchasing power of older people in the Netherlands. It worked. I say this again to Mr Krol. I speak a lot of elderly people, both in private and in my work, and they say two things: I want you to do everything in my power to ensure that I stay as well as I can financially, and we have done so, but I also want you to make sure that my children and grandchildren have a job. This means that we understand very well that we are using the scope for reducing the burden in such a way that it promotes employment, especially at a time when there are major problems, for example with youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u163	I cannot imagine that the elderly who speak Mr Rutte are so terribly different from the older people I speak to. I invite him to sit at the party bureau for an hour, because then he hears really different stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u164	The party bureau of 50PLUS, an attractive offer. We're still looking at it. Mr President, may I suggest that you give the floor to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u165	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance. Mr Grashoff, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u166	No, Mr. Chairman. That's not true. That was on a different subject from what I now intend to interrupt the Prime Minister on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u167	Go ahead. Keep it short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u168	The Prime Minister did not address the whole issue of climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u169	That's what the Minister of Finance is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u170	In my contribution, I asked a specific question to the Prime Minister. It is an important, cabinet-wide priority. It is not about financial policy, it is about a government-wide priority. The Minister of EZ and the Secretary of State of I and M also play a role in this. It is a question of the government's intention to decouple economic growth from CO emissions. In 2015, therefore, it was found that this is not the case. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this has failed and, if so, what will he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u171	I have said before that I am not a French president or a German chancellor. The position of the Dutch Prime Minister is that of the primus inter pairs. We have divided the tasks so that the Minister of Finance will answer that question. We don't have a presidential system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u172	I suggest that we give the Minister of Finance the floor first. You will then have the opportunity to return to that question if it is not answered, Mr Grashoff. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u173	Mr. Chairman. There have been relatively few questions about financial accountability, the state of the economy and the state of the budget. I understand that, because it's going well. Nevertheless, I have to mention a few things, if only because things have been said about them that are not right. It would be annoying if we were to fight each other here with the wrong numbers. EMU debt in the Millions Note indeed decreased by 5 full percentage points in 2015. In this debate, I also heard it a few times in the media, the sale of a piece of ABN AMRO was mentioned as an important amount. It is a failure diverse, but out of those 5 percentage points only 0.4% came from the sale of ABN AMRO shares mainly. The other factors are partly the denominator effect, economic development, the change in the balance............................................................................................................................................................................................ In addition, our exposure to the EFSF, the European Emergency Fund, has been significantly reduced. Moreover, treasury banking has contributed more than expected to lower debt. I can go on like this for a while. So it really falls apart into a number of different factors. The sale of ABN AMRO is a small part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u174	Are you in the middle of an introduction right now, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u175	No, Mr. Chairman. I know you're in a hurry. I skipped all the introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u176	I'm not in a hurry, but I just want it to be a little structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u177	Oh, structured...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u178	Yes. That must be very appealing to a finance minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u179	Yes. If you want to structure it: this is the heading "general economic and financial'. I will finish this very quickly, because, as has been said, very few questions have been asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u180	Good. I shall then give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u181	I'm missing one more piece and I'd like to know the extent of it. That is the revision of the national accounts, which made our income much higher at once. How much did this contribute to reducing EMU debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u182	I didn't break it down, but the denominator effect is 1.1 percentage points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u183	I am referring to the impact of the GDP review, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u184	This leads to the adjustment of GDP and that is in the denominator effect. That's in the 1.1 percentage point, but I didn't break it down here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u185	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u186	There's an interest in how much we're saving on interest right now. Compared to the 2015 Millions Note, we save 0.4 billion in interest. That is indeed the result of the low interest rate climate. It is not, by the way, that I keep explaining to you that the ECB has caused interest rates to be so low. In this low interest rate environment, the ECB is also trying to push inflation up a bit, and to that end it is influencing interest rates even further. However, this is not the main reason why interest rates are so low. We've had this discussion before. Raising the AOW by €300 costs about 1 billion. The PVV has not yet financed half of its generous gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u187	This is entrapment, so Mr Van Dijck has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u188	Well, I thought it was a serious proposal from the PVV, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u189	Yeah, it's a very serious proposal. That is why I have the right to respond to this. The Minister of Finance now compares what ultimately came out with what he had budgeted. I've been looking at the Annual Financial Report. That's the Final Act, the Final Position. From this, it can be derived how much interest was ultimately paid on the sovereign debt. In 2014, government debt in absolute terms was about as high as it is today. However, in that year, the Minister of Finance paid 1 billion more interest on the government debt than in 2015. In other words, on a government debt of 450 billion, he paid 9 billion interest in 2014 and now 8 billion. So he's had an advantage of $1 billion. So I am not talking about an advantage over the budget, but about 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u190	Mr Van Dijck participates long enough in the Committee on Finance to know that this is really totally inadequate. We are talking about the closed year 2015. What happened in there? You make a budget based on all kinds of expectations. They're in the budget on Princess' Day. You can't say: I had a lucky break because the final number deviated from the final number in 2015 in 2014? The lucky one's gonna turn you against what you've budgeted. Anyway, I know Mr Van Dijck understands this, but he's acting like he doesn't understand. Mr President, Mr Van Dijck understands this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u191	I call Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u192	The difference between what has been budgeted and what has been realized is indeed only 0.5 billion. But the difference between what was paid in 2014 in interest and what was paid in 2015 is 1 billion. In other words, the Minister has an advantage of 1 billion less interest in 2015 compared to 2014. That advantage is because the interest rate is lower. The Minister had already calculated a lower interest rate, but it has become even lower. In 2014, the Minister had to pay on average twice as much interest on the government debt as in 2015, so he understands my reasoning; he actually got 1 billion in his lap thanks to the low interest rate. That is precisely the amount for which pension funds and pensioners are disadvantaged. Because interest rates are so low, the minister gets 1 billion thrown in his lap and pensioners are taken away 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u193	No, pensioners are entitled to serious proposals, not balloons like this. Why is this a balloon? If the PVV had seriously wanted a possible interest advantage on our sovereign debt to be converted into an increase in the AOW, that group would have to settle that at the beginning of 2015. We could have gotten our budget on that. You cannot say: there has been an advantage over the whole year 2015 in terms of 2014, so that money is apparently now free. Of course, that money is not free at all, as the Prime Minister has already said. That's just part of a whole series of setbacks and windfalls. This reasoning is therefore completely inadequate. There is really no older person in the Netherlands who gets along with this even one millimeter. It's really quatsch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u194	Okay, but is it also quatsch that pension funds are disadvantaged by too low interest rates? Is it also quatsch that next year the pension of 2 million people will be cut? Is it quatsch that all this is due to low interest rates? Is it also quatsch that the Minister of Finance benefits from this low interest rate because there are lower interest charges on the sovereign debt? Is that all quatsch, or is it true? Pensioners pay the bill and the minister is the laughing third, because he has to pay less interest. It has been awarded to him, but I do not think he should benefit from those lower interest charges while a certain group in the Netherlands is suffering from that lower interest rate. Then it is only fair for the Minister to say: I am giving my profits to that corrupted group. That's the logic of the story. I don't care if it's conclusive or technically correct; the logic counts much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mr Van Dijck, I think you have already had your contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u196	The cabinet policy is different. The government's policy is to ensure that older people are just making even progress. That is what is actually happening this year. Older people are getting over 1.1% to 1.5%. Why is that? Because the cabinet has taken targeted measures to this end. Yes, pension funds suffer from low interest rates; no one is fighting that. This is not a result of cabinet policy, but it does occur. Can the cabinet fully compensate for that? No, because it is pension funds that have their own responsibility and their own investment policy. Every year we look at what the income picture looks like and whether it can be defended. We will do that again in August. We have repaired this for this year, and that is why the elderly are on average above 1%. The PvdA has argued for more wage increases following the report on the DNB study on the labour income ratio. What part of our common prosperity is the labour factor, the workers? The study states that it has been overrated for years. According to this analysis, this has to do with an overestimated income ofzzp'ers. This analysis is not yet established and undisputed. DNB, CPB and CBS will look into this together to further underpin this. We're gonna see that. At the same time, it is a certain fact that in the balance sheet distribution within our economy households are still in the process of restoring balance sheets. This soupes up part of their purchasing power. There are still many households that are in debt or have a mortgage under water. The balance sheet of larger business looks really strong. This does not apply to small businesses, so I do understand the reaction of SMEs in the Netherlands, which, by the way, would benefit from a wage increase, but this aside. It is then very obvious that either investment is being made or wages are being increased. We are not doing this from The Hague and not generically across all sectors, but there is broad support for this area among economists, DNB and part of business, including large business. So yes, space in specific sectors could certainly further underpin the economic recovery. Attracting domestic demand already underpins our economic recovery. This is definitely helping. We will take this into account in the discussions we have with the social partners. I also often speak to them in the run-up to Princess Day, in the preparation of the budget, so I think this is a good theme. I would add that we are not going to impose this; that would be unwise. You really need to look where the space is and it's very different from sector to sector. Much has already been said by the Prime Minister about the serious shortcomings in the three departments mentioned. Let me say first of all that half of the normal imperfections have been eliminated; they have gone from 50 to 27. But serious is also serious, which we do not oppose. On all three themes, it does not apply to the whole of the departments, it concerns very specific functions within the departments, improvement plans have been drawn up and improvements initiated. The Court of Auditors is unbearable. If it takes too long, it gets serious. That's just the way it is. At the same time, you must also realise that some of the problems we are dealing with are not solved overnight. Is it all gone next year? I can't guarantee that. For the Tax Administration we now have an investment programme of everything together over 1 billion. We have taken a five to seven-year horizon for this. There's part of it that's got a huge personal reorganisation, you don't do it in a year. By the way, the enthusiasm for this human renewal is great, so that it goes faster than we had planned. However, it is not something you do very quickly. The same applies to investment in ICT. Here, it is crucial that the other departments should continue to operate while systems are being renewed. There's a hell of a risk attached to this. I don't have to tell the Chamber what risks there are in ICT operations. It will take time to ensure that we do this carefully and at the same time ensure that the matter continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u197	I have just mentioned in my contribution that we have heard this very often. It's not like last year either. We have had several programs, including complexity reduction in ICT. Nine years ago, we had De Hunger's plan of simplification operation Tax Administration. I heard exactly the same story back then about old systems and the legacy. The word "roadmap" was also used and it was said that there would be five to ten years to replace all systems. I have the feeling that we are always back to square one and that the Tax Administration will continue to reorganise endlessly until it falls down without really changing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u198	In part, the operations mentioned by Mr Merkies have simply been carried out. Some of the simplifications in the Tax Administration depend on simplifications in legislation and regulation. The desire at the Chamber to remove complex regulations is not so great. That's what makes it complicated. In part, this State Secretary, with his broad policy letter, has indicated his broad approach to the Tax Administration that he is also going to take a different approach. So it is extremely complicated to successfully eject the old ICT systems. With an ICT system that has gradually, over the years, expanded, expanded, expanded, you can't just say that you're throwing out a particular system. So much more a layered approach is needed. The House should, above all, continue the debate on this matter with the Secretary of State. If we want to evaluate what has happened to previous plans, we must do so especially with the Secretary of State. However, I would like to give the Chamber the following note: if Secretary of State Wiebes now proposes to implement it with the Tax Office within a year, I will intervene. I don't think it's justified to take this extremely complex, high-risk operation through in a year's time. That's not gonna happen. I hope that the Court of Auditors will support me in this careful approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u199	My recommendation would have worked if the Secretary of State had also been in trade union K, because I would have asked him to come forward now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u200	I agree with you; good point, good innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u201	Because then I could have asked him. Of course, I am not concerned that it should be settled in a year. I am concerned that there should be a plan once and that we should not, in three years' time, have to get a new plan from the Tax Administration which says'modernisation of the tax administration, but now really', and which is then monitored again and that it goes on forever. It's about making that program once. That program from nine years ago was about all the systems. That wasn't about a few systems. This was also about the old ICT systems, also called "legacy systems." So we're back to square one. Making a plan once and keeping an eye on it: that would be my recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u202	Thank you for the recommendation. We are not back to square one, but you are right that there have been previous plans that have also covered the ICT issue in a broad way. So now it is important to make the current plan really operational and testable, and to turn it off in time. Account must be taken of the steps to be taken. Every six months, the Chamber receives a six-month report from the Tax Administration. There is always a chapter on the investment agenda. The Court is thus informed twice a year about the progress of rolling out the investment agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u203	The complex discussion about ICT and the Tax Administration seems to be moving in the direction that you should first resolve everything about your ICT issues before you get to system reviews and wise changes in your tax system. Are there any possible strategies where, without doing anything carelessly in one year, you can combine it with a process of system reform, especially if it also involves simplification and changes in your ICT systems? Is it wise to do that in order, or is it wise to draw it in parallel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u204	That is a very good point from Mr Grashoff. Many of the simplifications are possible, even in the current, still vulnerable ITC environment. In fact, they're helping. The Secretary of State is therefore sending a letter to the Chamber very soon about the twenty most complex regulations; complex from the point of view of the Tax Administration. That complexity entails risks. It is realized and requires a great commitment from the Tax Administration. This will therefore be an interesting political debate on whether there is political courage and decisiveness to say: let us relieve the tax authorities on a number of points by removing some of these complex arrangements. We have made this analysis: what are the twenty most burdensome regulations? Then you get simplification, which takes the pressure off the systems and the organization. This could help the whole reorganisation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u205	In itself, I welcome this approach. However, I would like to point out the risk involved. It is, of course, a question of having a kind of joint debate about simplification and, of course, the fragile discussion about the political objectives that you are pursuing. Does the Minister see that such a combination of discussions can take place in a responsible manner? I think that in the Chamber there is a very broad feeling that it should be easier for the Tax Administration to do so, but that the way and consequences of this should of course be closely monitored. Is such a process conceivable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u206	Sure. I think that the letter with the twenty most complex arrangements will enable you to discuss it, because it is not politically neutral. There are also arrangements to which the Chamber may be very attached. There is also a weighting: do you really want to do that, or do you prefer to keep that arrangement and get another arrangement out of it? Last year we also had a discussion with the Chamber on a number of possibilities for simplifying the system. The "appetite," in English, to get to work with it, wasn't that big. Anyway, it's a political thing, and we're just gonna continue this operation. This letter with the twenty most effective arrangements gives insight. Moreover, there is another misunderstanding, namely that this would mean that we cannot do anything about the tax system in the coming years, and that politics must now wait and see. That's not right. On 23 May, the Secretary of State sent a letter indicating the parameters, the buttons on which to turn. It is not that all buttons are now off and are not functioning. There are a lot of buttons that you can just turn on, even while this reorganisation, this investment agenda, is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u207	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u208	I come to V and J, and only to the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Mrs De Vries and others have spoken about this. In addition to the improvement plans already under way, which Mr Koolmees also referred to and the commitments made by the Minister of V and J in November, the Minister of V and J and I agreed on the control function. It is extremely layered and sold. I did recognize a bit of the elements about breeding in Oosting's report. It was also in these kinds of functions. We've agreed that we're going to centralize that control function significantly. These agreements were made only late in the autumn, so they were not fully implemented last year. After all, this too is a reorganisation that requires a movement of people, et cetera. It'll take time. We are also going to ensure that the ownership, as it is now called in modern management speak, of all kinds of services in that large family of V and J, is invested in the sg. So it is really about the management function and also about the financial management. In this way, the control function is strengthened. As the Prime Minister said, in the budget on Princess Day, we will explicitly address the situation with regard to the three serious shortcomings, so that the Chamber does not have to wait for the annual report to be published next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u209	I asked a question about the IRS, but I don't know if the Minister is quite ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u210	I have a number of specific points on the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u211	I'll wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u212	I just wanted to take care of the serious flaws. Then I'll join the DOD. As the Prime Minister said, it concerns the logistics chain, in particular the availability of spare parts. The ibo is more specifically about operational readiness. For example, we are going to look at operational readiness standards: when are we going to consider some of the equipment of the units operationally available? There is a lot of discussion about the type of standards you use for this. That ibo was completed by 1 March 2017. I owed the Chamber that answer. Once again, I have spoken with the Minister of Defence about financial management since the beginning of the cabinet period. If you put extra money into an organization, you also want to make sure that this money is well spent. At the beginning of the cabinet period, however, there was some concern about this with regard to Defence. The financial management function within the organisation has been strengthened and the position of the headmaster has also been strengthened, but much remains to be done. The Court of Auditors has contributed a great deal with its opinions. This concerns the management of the investment agenda, of equipment and of exploitation. There's still a lot to be done there. The Minister of Defence is very aware of this and wants to have the matter in order. I'll be right back at the IRS. A painful issue is the policy changes after the Autumn note. Why is that a painful issue? I feel responsible for this being reported to the Chamber by the end of the year, if necessary and inevitable. That didn't happen here. After a number of years in which it went well and we had the wind well below it, the amount rose last year. There is a lot of discussion between the accounting department of the Empire and the ARK about whether or not there was a policy change. This is mainly about the word 'policywise'. Perhaps Mr Koolmees recognizes these discussions from the time he worked at Finance. Then everything was in order, I hear; I get it. It's mostly with Defense and EZ. 88% of the total amount belongs to those two. In the case of the Defence Department, the contract for the C30 is a transport aircraft; I have also been briefed on investments in the armed forces related to ICT, contracts relating to the F-35 and material projects. Contracts concluded before the end of the year were already planned for the budget, but for the following year. The contracts were therefore concluded before the end of the year. When that happens, you have to deal with it. So it is not true that things have happened entirely outside the Chamber. Only, the Chamber knew no better than that it would fall under the year 2016. There is discussion about this: is this a policy change, isn't it? Did something new happen that the Chamber didn't know? I believe that these discussions should be settled between the auditors and the ARK. We need a clear picture: what is and what is not? The IRF must always ensure that it is also reported to the Chamber. That's the discipline we're gonna bring up. So the bulk of the large amount was in that discussion. As far as I am concerned, we must conclude this discussion quickly. There is concern about the Compliance Act and Accountability Day. Apparently, a press release from our side caused the misunderstanding. I wouldn't have read it like that, otherwise I would have reworded it in the press release "Responsible Day" that would disappear. At least that was the image that suddenly came into being. The only thing that changes in the Compatibility Act is that it still has to be adopted, so the Chamber will definitely amend it out of it... is that there will be some flexibility around the date. Why do we do that? Because in recent years flexibility around the date has been needed a few times. You can pour the law into concrete... I can tell by the faces that you're actually gonna do that. Then we will break the law regularly, so I predict you. But the room is the boss, so I'm following you. If you want to break the law, we're all in on it. Questions have been asked about legality issues in the municipal accounts. A lot of time and attention has been paid to this. From the start of decentralisation in the social domain, a great deal of priority has been given to the continuity of care. After all, there should be no gaps at the expense of those who need care. Therefore, municipalities as well as VWS have provided advance payments to healthcare providers with the personalised budget. This was done with a calculated risk shared with the Chamber, which would later not be clear to what extent expenditure would be faithful and legitimate. These accountability uncertainties are now reflected in the municipal accounts as a whole, especially since 17% of the municipal budget now relates to healthcare expenditure. The General Court writes that the Minister of State could have previously investigated these consequences of the decentralisations and recommends that the ministers of BZK and VWS take the lead with the municipalities and the healthcare providers to find a solution. Moreover, the Court of Auditors supports the line chosen not to artificially extend the existing rules of accountability in order to obtain an approval of the audit report. So we're not gonna push our standards to solve this. VWS and BZK are constantly in consultation with the VNG, the professional organisation of auditors and healthcare providers. Its aim is to achieve a pragmatic and adequate method of settlement. VWS has also taken various actions on the personal budget. The Chamber was last informed of this in the letter of 19 February. On 24 March, BZK further informed the Chambers Committee on Home Affairs on this issue. I have been informed that an AO will take place on this matter. Work is still ongoing on this issue. Following the closure of the 2015 financial statements, in July 2016, BZK will analyse the corresponding audit report of the auditors with the findings reports. It will send the results to the House of Representatives shortly after the summer. On the basis of this analysis and, inter alia, the VNG Information Services Social Domain programme, improvements will be developed, including in relation to the exchange of information within the care chain, the drawing up of contracts and the accountability of expenditure. Some questions have been asked about the IRS. The Labour Party has asked how the number of book checks among SMEs could be lower than expected. She asked if this is why a hundred million-dollar return was missed. This is about checks at the IRS. Indeed, fewer book surveys have been carried out in the SME segment. The focus has shifted to book surveys with greater fiscal importance and risk. So there is really much more focus in areas where greater risks can be expected. This means that more time is spent per research, but also a higher yield is achieved. Not only the number of book checks is therefore a good indication of the quality of supervision. That would be a delay in supervision. The total correction revenue is 809 million. This revenue is 37 million higher than in 2014. The average correction yield in the SME book survey was 31,000 in 2015 compared to 21,000 in 2014. In this you can see that the approach to doing less research and to focus more on the risks means that more time is spent on a study but that its yield is also higher. Mr Omtzigt asked about the renewal of the turnover tax system. I thought his questions were whether they were ever told or why it was never reported, what the system cost and what consequences it has for stopping that new system. The broad agenda, which I have just spoken about, is specifically about tackling these large systems. Priority shall be given to the revenue levy and collection. VAT and car are the second priority. This means that the work on the new VAT system has been temporarily suspended. That's not exactly a waste of money. These are design products that can simply be used again when these work is resumed. I would like to make a few comments on asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u213	The report of the Court of Auditors states that the system has been temporarily suspended and that it has been definitively abandoned. Now the Minister says it's been temporarily shut down. Would the Minister or the Secretary of State wish to return in writing to what has been spent so far and whether it has been temporarily or permanently suspended? So I would like some more information on a VAT system. A VAT system is by definition also a very large system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u214	I thought there was an AO scheduled for June 1st, but I might be wrong. I see that's right. I'm gonna get this information for AO to come to the Chamber, or during the AO if we couldn't do it sooner. However, I believe that this should still be possible. I come to the cost of asylum. Mr Van Dijck has claimed in the 'faits diverse' series that the cost of receiving asylum seekers is 2 billion. That must be corrected. No: we spent 1.8 billion in 2015. Of this amount, 0.5 billion has been paid into the asylum reserve. It will be spent, or spent, in 2016. In fact, the total amount is 1.3 billion. Mr Van Dijck will say that this is still a lot of money. He's right about that. However, it has a humanitarian background that we consider necessary. I thought Mr Omtzigt had also asked for the budget reserve for asylum. It is intended to cover fluctuations in the costs of influx of asylum seekers. As regards the costs of the inflow in 2015, it is known that the first-year reception will be paid from the ODA funds from the budget of the Minister of BHOS. The reception of the people who influx in 2015 is therefore paid out for a year. So that goes on in 2016. On 1 June at the latest, the Court shall receive the Spring Note and the first Supplementary Budget Act. Then I'll inform the Chamber more precisely about what's going on with the expenses. Let me, by the way, look back at the discussion we had earlier on the asylum estimates. I believe it was Nieuwsuur that revealed that the Minister of Finance had reduced the asylum estimates. I can only confirm that. It is part of my work to look at estimates from the ministries extremely critically and, where necessary, to reduce them. At the time, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance blamed me for not having included 100,000 refugees in the budget. As we all know, last year it was 60,000 or 59.000. Right now, we're on a much lower path. We have budgeted for the same number as last year. We just continued the realization of last year. This problem will certainly not arise this year. At least, I'm not sure, but that's the case if the trend stays on this path. Specific questions have been asked about the D.A.'s office. I think the Chamber should realise that, despite austerity measures, the development of the public prosecutor's budget has been a positive step forward. I'll just say it anyway, because even today, in the media, the image is emerging that there has been a huge blow in the public service in the Netherlands. That's what you see all the time. The public prosecutor's budget was 650 million in 2010. It has risen to 700 million in 2015. As the Prime Minister said, we will make further proposals on security in the Spring Paper and on Princess Day. It's not like the D.A.'s office is out of resources. Mr Bolhaar said in an interview that there should be more money because there are new things going on in the sphere of crime. I am very sorry, but if there are new things going on, then that is my view in the broad sense of the word, then we will first examine whether it is possible to shift resources. When crime is involved, we also need to shift resources. If we have to provide new money for every new development in society, the budget is not going to be good. I'm just gonna give that as a thought. Moreover, the Court of Auditors also said sensible things on this point when he said that it is not necessary to solve every problem with extra money. We will of course return to the Spring's note and Prince's Day. Questions have been asked about the expat scheme, the 30% scheme, which the Court of Auditors has looked very critically at. The purpose of this scheme is to attract foreign workers with specific expertise. This scheme provides advance security and has no complex administration. A salary standard of at least €36,889 per year shall be tested. That standard is also derived from the knowledge migrants' scheme and has been established in consultation with the Lower House. I welcome the fact that we have proposed to tighten up this standard and that the Chamber has reversed it. If the Chamber wishes to have that discussion again, it will understand that we are prepared to do so. At least we're going to evaluate this scheme. It is also one of the Court's recommendations to review periodically. We're going to take that evaluation forward with great vigour. This information will come in the course of 2017. Questions have been asked about the risks of guarantees. I am always grateful for such questions, because the risks of guarantees deserve attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u215	Mr Merkies has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u216	There is a lot more going on, because the extent to which the scheme works has not been investigated. Well, that's a surprise, isn't it? The standard is sec a salary standard. If you earn more than that standard, you can use it. At least you expect the Ministry to have checked if it works. Is the Ministry going to look into that during the evaluation? That is still not quite clear to me. And when exactly are we going to get that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u217	I don't exactly have it here, but I expect mid-2017. We are going to look at the usefulness and necessity of the scheme and whether it can be smarter or different. I would add that our business community, which has a particular need for foreign talent, is very contented about it. It says that it really helps to strengthen the Dutch locational environment for well-educated and specific expertise. Anyway, that's only based on what the client says about it. We're going to thoroughly evaluate the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u218	At least the Court of Auditors said that the scheme is not in the top ten of what one wants for the establishment environment. I understand, of course, that a management, especially when there are foreign directors in it, would like to have that arrangement. I have one more question about the evaluation. Is it included as part of this that we are looking at the displacement of Dutch talent? It was specifically appointed by the General Court that this point had not been examined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u219	I shall come back to that in second place. Let me just make sure that the research questions have already been drawn up. I have been standing here, by the way, I do not have the list of literature available that various studies show that the 30% scheme plays an important role in the locational environment in the Netherlands. Then there's the guarantees. The VVD said that they increased again in 2015 and added: that wasn't the intention, was it? The total outstanding risk related to guarantees in this cabinet period is falling sharply. That's what we're really sending. In 2012, it was 258 billion, while we have now dropped to 198 billion. From 2014 to 2015, there has been an increase of 1 billion. It is explained, among other things, by the effect of exchange rates on our guarantees, the IMF and the World Bank, which are in dollars. That risk has increased. In addition, we switched to a new development bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. That has really been an active policy decision. The exchange rate problem makes things good one year and the other year a little less. I think it was Mrs De Vries who said that I intended to go through all kinds of arrangements. She asked if that had happened. Yeah, that's what happened. We've been through all the guarantee and risk arrangements with the departments. Some, which have not been used or not used sufficiently, have been removed, others have been adapted. Risk premiums have been requested for many of them. They are placed in budgetary reserves. The Court of Auditors recently had an opinion on this. It was not critical of the existence of budgetary reserves and of the fact that they are set up for schemes in respect of which a risk may arise at any time. That is what the Court of Auditors thinks, I think, is a very sensible policy. However, the Court of Auditors did have observations on the provision of information to the Court. So we are going to provide a good explanation of the departmental budgets, where these arrangements can be found. We will indicate where a budget reserve comes from, what its purpose is, how it is built up and so on, so that the Court can assess it. As regards the ECB's monetary policy and the risks arising from it, I note that DNB, as a result of the QE programme, which in any case lasts until March 2017, carries greater credit and interest risks. Also, the ECB's decision to replace bonds which have expired indefinitely, which were previously bought to continue rolling, with new purchases, means that those risks are present on DNB's balance sheet for a long period of time. I support DNB's risk policy. She says that we will have to build buffers for that. We have asked whether this can be done through the guarantee scheme that the State already has with DNB. DNB stated on this point that this is about risks arising from monetary policy and that, in view of its strict independence from monetary policy, it does not want to be dependent on a guarantee from the State; it wants to reserve for it itself. I can regret that, because their payments will of course decrease. At the same time, the volume of profits of DNB is increasing further thanks to the expansion of the QE programme. All in all, therefore, the setback for the state budget is limited; not welcome, but limited. I would like to comment on the risks of monetary expansion in the balance sheet of DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u220	We have, of course, already received all this information on our own. DNB is at greater risk in its balance sheet and provides several hundreds of millions. This has an impact on future dividend payments. And the risks are of course greater than the provision; the provision is an expected additional buffer. I do not think that the Chamber should look into DNB balance sheets to find out what has been bought up and what the indirect risk to the government budget is. She should be able to read that in the government papers. I therefore asked for an analysis of the risks associated with monetary widening for public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u221	I am pleased that I have already promised that we would consider this in Chapter 4 of the Millions' Note, which deals with the risks and guarantees, so that is what will happen if Mr Nijboer agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u222	Is Mr Nijboer okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u223	Yeah, I asked about that, so I'm okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u224	I believe that was agreed before, but it is good that we have now reconfirmed it. It better be fixed. The same applies to Mrs Schouten's question. She had a broader question about the risks of low interest rates for the total government budget. We shall deal with this in the same chapter. Each year we have a number of thematic reflections on underlying risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u225	My question was specifically about the effects of the decreasing value of oil and gas reserves on the state balance sheet. How should we deal with the value of these reserves in the future, if we start to pump up less and less?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u226	I have to dig into my memory now. We have asked DNB to carry out an analysis on the financial sector. DNB has done so and made it wider; really society-wide. I have sent a cabinet response, in which I have also dealt with the risks to the budget. Maybe I can come back to that in second term, because I'm digging in my memory right now. In my view, we have gone into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u227	That'll come back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u228	Then there are the policy reviews, the impact of policies. In recent years, discipline has been cited on this point, including in the Chamber. Policy reviews are now also being actively discussed in the Council of Ministers. We have agreed on the quality of this, such as the 20% rule: show how you would want to achieve the same thing or what priorities you would set if you had to do it 20% less. That's a really good exercise. We have agreed that the directors themselves will report to the Chamber in advance what policy reviews they are going to do and what research questions they are putting at the heart of this. Then the Chamber can say it if it doesn't think it's the right thing to do. We have agreed that, if they are delayed, the rulers will report that to their Chambers themselves, so that the Chamber can act on it. In my opinion, the Court's policy reviews are also much more serious. I do not believe that the whole pile has been dealt with explicitly by the Chamber, so there is still a profit to be gained, but in the past they have often been adopted for notification. I am convinced, as a former member of the Chamber, that there will really be a different dynamic, even within the departments, if the Chamber takes this kind of policy review extremely seriously. I think we should hang out here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u229	I acknowledge that things are going much better, also due to the involvement of the Chamber in the question. My observation with regard to the annual report was that only 13 of the 28 policy reviews announced came to the Chamber. I think that's very skinny. Although it is reported that the policy review will come later, less than half will actually be delivered. Then the question is how seriously the departments take this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u230	It's not like less than half was delivered. Eight of the 15 delays have now been completed and sent to the Chamber. It's the 2015 tranche. In 2016, eight more were sent. It is not good that we are lagging behind, because we are already halfway through the year, but the gap has now been reduced to seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u231	In 2015, we still have seven. We are in 2016 and for 2016 we also have a very strong agenda, with new policy reviews, because an article needs to be reviewed every seven years. I just note that more than half of them are not on time, and I would like to draw attention to that from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u232	I certainly pay attention to this because I am system responsible for this and feel responsible for it. At the same time... no. Period. I'm not going to mention mitigating circumstances. I would like to comment on a few more varia. Mr Krol asked a question about the risk of increasing interest rates on public debt. He is right: the low interest rate at the moment certainly presents an additional risk on this point. About in 2015, the rule of thumb was to renew a seventh of the sovereign debt. So it is not that, when interest rates are low, we refinance the whole of the sovereign debt and take that interest rate advantage. Moreover, the maturity of the State debt is still very high. We have made some adjustments to that. However, a seventh part has been refinanced on the basis of the rule of thumb. With a government debt of 350 billion, an interest rate increase of 1% to 500 million euros leads to additional interest charges. Those are huge amounts of money. At the same time, the budget is not completely out of control. But if this situation arises, we will have to deal with it. So there is certainly a real risk. Mr Merkies has asked questions that have to do with the care. He has asked for a responsibility for the enormous overrun of the pgbs at the Social Insurance Bank. Did we throw that over the fence and, if so, how do we do it next year? This is a change from the estimate at the time of the draft budget in September 2014. This is largely about the group of Wlz-indicables. The draft budget has not yet taken into account the decision to transfer this target group, the Wlz-indicables, from the area of the Municipal Law and the Health Insurance Act to the Wlz. They make great use of a pgb. As a result, the budget for pgbs has increased from the Wlz. That's the explanation for that. There really is a policy decision behind that decision that was not included in the initial estimate at the time. Furthermore, Mr Merkies asked about the cuts in the ggz. The cabinet makes growth space available for the curative ggz each year. "Sustainability" does not seem to me to be the right term in this respect. The Court has recently received a letter from the ministers of VWS and from V and J on the problems of confused persons in response to the interim report of the Chasing Team of confused persons. This team has been specifically focused on this problem. I have to refer to that interim report on this point. Mr Merkies also drew attention to the cuts in care for the elderly, which led to more pressure on the emergency services. The signal from TraumaNet AMC that there is too much patient flow on the emergency room takes the cabinet very seriously. Everyone who arrives must really be helped within a reasonable time; that is the nature of emergency services. All parties to the care also recognise that the number of elderly people in the emergency care system is increasing. Moreover, we do not recognize the image that elderly people have to wait for emergency aid throughout the country for hours in the hallway. The inspection says to get reports on this, but does not see an increase in the total number of annual reports. Minister Schippers invited the letter writers who gave this alarming signal to a consultation. That consultation has now taken place on VWS. As promised during Question Time, the Minister will inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr Merkies has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u234	I have one more point, and I have dealt with all the questions of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u235	I've got three things already, so it's gonna be tough. I've got a lot of issues to deal with right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u236	Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to finish his reply on this point. After that, Mr Merkies will have the opportunity to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u237	It's just a small package of SP care. Is the Minister prepared to remove planned additional cuts in care for the elderly? That's a reference to the 500 million. Of course, we will come back to that at Prinsjesdag, because that is an amount that would be in the 2017 budget. Or not! But we won't know until Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u238	I give Mr Merkies the opportunity to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u239	I was just trying out of the Minister of Finance's eye to see if I could be hopeful about that. That would be good for the elderly in this country. However, he holds a poker face. Moreover, I did not talk about austerity but about staying on the shelf of money, that is to say an understatement. However, we see this every year. Every year, we are talking about 200 million overall. Then the question is, how is that possible? After all, it happens every time. How is that possible, especially given the fact that waiting lists and the problems of confused persons?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u240	In all honesty, Mr Merkies is asking me over. If he really wants an answer to that now, I have to come back to that in the second term. So he says: it's not a cut, but there's money left. How can this be because of the problems of the confused people? If money stays somewhere, I am very interested in it as Minister of Finance. So I'm going to dig in immediately. And if he doesn't, he's gonna have to dig it up with the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u241	Which should be behind you right now, so I could bring her forward. The next point is the pgb. I would like to know more specifically whether we are going to be given any kind of accountability. We have, of course, always had to deal with an unintentional overrun of 400 million because of many manual adjustments. By the way, an overrun is always unintentional. We just want to know more about that. Finally, I would like to address the concern expressed by the General Court. The General Court suspects that the problems have not been resolved by the end of this year. What's the Cabinet gonna do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u242	If the Secretary of State of the United States has not yet addressed this in his policy response, I will see to it that the Chamber receives a letter on this matter. Mr Merkies is just asking me over. He is now asking questions about very specific issues from the VWS budget. I know a lot, but I don't know all the details of all the regulations on all the national budgets. That's impossible. We note this question and I ask the Secretary of State for that information. There are concerns about the renewable energy reserve. Part of the resources for renewable energy, the funding, are placed in a budget reserve. There are concerns as to whether that money will remain available. Yeah, that's gonna be available. It is, of course, conceivable that the budget reserve will be lifted in a subsequent cabinet period, after all, we cannot give guarantees as to what future Cabinets would decide, but as far as we are concerned, these funds are really intended for investment in renewable energy. At present, the reserve contains some 1 billion. The spokesmen of the Christian Union and GroenLinks also spoke about renewable energy. We are fully committed to the goals of the energy agreement. That's 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. There has recently been further consultation between the parties to the energy agreement. It has been established by all parties that the objectives of the Energy Agreement are within reach. In the event that the 14% target is not met in October 2016, an intensification of the ISDE scheme is available for the period 2017-2020 in order to meet the target. This was reported to the Chamber in a letter dated 17 May. In 2015, the available SDE budget of 3.5 billion..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u243	This is a bit like the well-known pleasing formulas that come out of the climate problem every time. Each time, facts come up, such as in 2015 the increased emissions of CO instead of reduced CO emissions and a decreasing pace in achieving sustainable energy. That is far from the goals of the energy agreement, which were too low by the way when you look at the Urgendavonnis. Every time we get this back. I also find it difficult to have this discussion with the Minister of Finance. I think it is a major cabinet-wide responsibility and that is why I wanted to interrupt the Prime Minister on this, but apparently another appointment has been made. Can the Minister explain to me how it is possible that there is not yet a pearly sweat on the forehead of the responsible leaders in this government, while each time the actual developments are far behind. are negative, the ambitions are adjusted upwards and the duration is getting shorter and shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u244	A gem on the forehead... I looked with interest at the graph that Mr Grashoff handed out. If you look at it on an annual basis, it's not fast enough. If you know what we currently have permits in procedure for offshore wind energy, then it is clear that the graph will increase rapidly in the coming years, namely if it is built. Mr Grashoff noted that the annual slope was not steep enough, but planned expenditure on wind energy and the permits issued for it indicated a major catch-up that this cabinet had initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u245	Clubs that go over it, up to and including a watchdog in the person of Mr Nijpels, also indicate that those goals are not being met. Now I'm told we'll get them. That can't be true or true, can it? When's that crazy jump gonna be made? Looks like some kind of deus ex machina is expected. There is no substantial acceleration. The ambition still needs to be revised upwards with regard to the Energy Agreement in relation to the Urgenda ruling. It affects about all portfolios including those of this finance minister when it comes to the carbon bubble. I think it's underrated. Every time we get the same mantra back. I can't reach that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u246	I cannot convince Mr Grashoff. There was no question in his speech either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u247	I understand the Minister is using the standard trick that he hasn't heard a question. Of course, he understands very well what the question is. Is there now a realistic view of reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u248	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u249	Or is there simply an ever-deviating departure from what is actually happening and the theory of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u250	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u251	With these short answers, we will be ready in time. I'll be back on the SDE+. The Minister said that the total amount for SDE+ was allocated to 194 projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u253	At SDE+ there has been a difference in cash rhythms for years, leaving money every year. It is also a fine pot to plunder in the budget of EZ. That's what's happened for years. However, it is about money that all citizens of the Netherlands raise through the energy bill for the purpose of spending it on renewable energy. How is the Minister going to ensure that money that is still in that pot due to a difference in cash flow ends up where it should end up, namely in achieving more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u254	We have simply agreed to this. The funds used by EZ at any time to cover other issues in the budget will be put back at a later date. This is also possible because there will be much more expenditure in the coming years. I was just talking about issuing permits for wind farms at sea, and in a number of years that expenditure will increase considerably. At the moment there is indeed a substantial reserve in the budget reserve, so that money needs to be put back. For all these things, a next cabinet will have to deal with this as conscientiously as this cabinet. These funds have been raised for renewable energy and should only be used for this purpose. Yes, this type of investment project does not allow you to plan exactly which part of it will lead to expenditure. You have a budget reserve for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u255	It has happened several times that there were applications that were not accepted, while there was a reserve in that pot. That would be published at a later date. It's all future cases where the money is in the pot at the time. I would say: take what you can take; what we can achieve, we must do so, also in order to prevent that money from being withdrawn for other purposes, because that too has indeed happened. This minister doesn't deny that. Why doesn't the Cabinet bet on spending the maximum amount of money in that pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u256	The objective of me and Minister Kamp is not to take those resources out of the window as quickly as possible. Our aim is to achieve the greatest possible effectiveness for renewable energy. There are now a lot of major projects in the pipeline and they will use a large part of that pot in the coming years; that's what it's meant for. The shifts within the EZ budget are permitted. Of course, the Chamber must be informed about this, but the money will be put back for that purpose in the years to come. I cannot now explain whether projects that should have been awarded have been rejected. Maybe they were just bad projects, or they didn't fit, et cetera. You'll have to step up that with the Minister of EZ. All I know is that we are looking at it this way from the Treasury: it is the budget reserve gathered from people's energy bills and intended to stimulate renewable energy. The resources for this will be retained. It is a multiannual plan, because otherwise we would not have had to put it in the budget reserve. That also makes perfect sense, because it concerns large investment projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u257	I get that. Nor do I doubt the intention of this Minister or that of the current Minister for Economic Affairs that the money that is being withdrawn should be put back at a later date. However, this minister cannot rule over his grave. I note that we are currently increasing the energy bill on the grounds that we are going to invest the money in renewable energy. But in the way we organise it, we are not sure. I hear the intentions well and would like to see them maintained, but we have no certainty. That's my point. We are now continuing to shift money for renewable energy, so we must also have the certainty that it will be used for renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u258	I agree with Mrs Schouten. Moreover, if EZ had not at present covered part of the problem from these funds but had left it in the budget reserve, there would still be the same risk that a subsequent cabinet would decide to use that money differently. I really wouldn't be in favour of that, given the motivation with which we raised the money from the citizens. As Mrs Schouten says, I cannot rule over my grave. The same applies to the discussion on the multiannual budget for defence. We were just wondering if that was false certainty, but we cannot guarantee that another cabinet will not make any other decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u259	I'm very curious how much longer you think you'll need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u260	I'm almost done. Mr Omtzigt asked for the Court's recommendation to report annually on the effects of tax incentives for economical cars. As you know, the letter II gradually reduces tax incentives and restricts them to promoting zero emission cars. We will evaluate this already in 2018. In addition, we will take the CO2 effects with us. I have promised that, in anticipation of this review, I will already inform the Chamber in the spring of 2018 as a mid-term monitoring of the number of zero-emission cars that were newly sold in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u261	Are you almost done, Minister? If that is the case, I am happy to wait until I give Members the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u262	Oh, well. I'm almost done. Mr Nijboer expressed his concern about what would happen if gas were not extracted in the near future. Are the people who have suffered damage in Groningen still entitled to compensation? The NAM is and will remain legally responsible for the compensation of the damage and the structural reinforcement, regardless of the 1.2 billion that we have made available for damage recovery, enhancement, viability and economic perspective. Of course, this amount of 1.2 billion has not yet been exhausted, but some of it has already been used up. However, that is quite separate from the fact that the NAM simply remains liable. The people there who are entitled to compensation keep that right. Incidentally, I do not expect the gas tap to close completely in the short term. Mrs Schouten asked whether we should not take into account the fact that we should leave the gas and work on renewable energy. The Energy Report indicates that natural gas still plays a role in the energy transition and has to play as a transition energy source for the time being. Demand for gas will certainly fall due to the trends mentioned by Mrs Schouten, but gas is still important from a security of supply point of view. I think I'm pretty much done with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u263	The recommendation of the General Court is quite clear: every year give an insight into how much subsidy you spend so that you know what's going on. Other parties have already pointed out that this has led to surprising results for the 30% scheme. Turns out they spent more on it. It may also be that within the stimulus categories are stimulated, which at some point you wonder if you should. Is the government prepared to indicate what incentive, i.e. reduced addition and fuel stimulation, has cost and what effects it has had, or do we really have to wait until 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u264	I'm trying to understand the question. Apparently, we are back to the tax incentives for economical cars. I do not understand exactly what Mr Omtzigt wants now more than Mr Wiebes has already promised to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u265	Over the past two years, the Court of Auditors has proposed that these incentives should be included as an annual grant in the annual report, so that you can see how much money has been spent on energy-efficient cars, by the reduced addition or by half-rate or zero-rate in the vehicle tax, as well as any other tax expenditure is accounted for in an annual manner. The government has never said whether it will follow that recommendation and does not seem to do so now. At least, I haven't been able to find that in the annual papers. Is the government prepared to indicate how much the tax subsidy has cost on economical and/or clean cars and what has been achieved in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u266	I'd like to return to that in second term. Let me see what we can deliver on this point at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u267	I would like to return to the issue of refugees. I was just a little late when that block was on the agenda, but that was really just about the budget. The issue I raised in my first term was to a large extent about the opportunities you can create by looking at education, integration and language in an integrated way. I deliberately point this out in this debate, because it is between the departments of OCW and Social Affairs and maybe even BZK has something to do with it. Does the Minister and the Cabinet agree with me that such an integrated approach is actually one of the very few possibilities to prevent us from welcoming a group of people here generously, but ultimately leaving them on the fringes of our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u268	Before I say yes or no, I really should know more about this 'integrated approach'. When such terms are used, you can hardly say no to them. A "integrated approach" is always good. Then we set up a hunting team and an action plan, and then who's against it? This just doesn't tell me that much. I'm not saying this is silly. I know, however, that we have reached an agreement with the UNG on all these issues at once. It discusses the resources needed to achieve this. That's what all these elements are in there. So there has already been an integration moment, at least in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u269	This is not integrated into the offer of refugees. The Minister can really take that from me. In the offer, it's divorced business. On the one hand, there is integration, with integration requirements and associated conditions. On the other hand, there is education and vocational education. Now people who enter here at an inadequate level are taught the language, after which they are sent a bit into the woods. The Scientific Council for Government Policy makes other suggestions, which are taken up by some rocks. It is recommended to connect with each other. So you need to teach people not only the language, but also a profession at the same time, so that they get a starting qualification in the labour market. That is a concept that we should want with each other, not as an exception, but as a standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u270	I am very pleased, but Mr Grashoff is now holding a debate with the Minister of Finance on how labour market policy, education policy and integration policy work together and should be linked. I just don't think it makes sense to have this debate here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u271	There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u272	Mr Grashoff is now going to do all kinds of things with his eyebrows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u273	I can't believe you can see that so clearly, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u274	Yes, I see very well. I do not think it is appropriate to have a substantive debate with the Minister of Finance on the coherence between elements of labour market policy, education policy and integration policy. We could talk about this for hours now, but Mr Grashoff would really do well to discuss this with the trade ministers. If he invites them together, he can immediately force them to integrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u275	This is really weird, isn't it? It is precisely a proposal which transcends the departments. I will not touch that division of labour between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I thought he was miserable. It is now said that I should not have this discussion with the Minister of Finance. I can't help but start the discussion with the Minister; I would have liked to have her with the Prime Minister. I don't know if he would have gone into it further. He can still do that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u276	This is the accounting debate. Mr Grashoff raises a policy question. He asks: how should we do this better in the future? It really is much more obvious to just discuss this with the trade ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u277	I have another question about the closing block. The NAM is liable for the damage and remains liable for it. What happens, however, if the NAM becomes an empty e.g. via a construction, or otherwise? How is it guaranteed that people will be compensated for damage in ten, fifteen or twenty years if there are still earthquakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u278	The NAM just has shareholders. They can't just walk away. But let me say in a more general sense: we do not abandon the people of Groningen. That's just not gonna happen. So we can now have theoretical reflections on a situation where the NAM would become an empty e.g., but the NAM is still working on winning gas in a responsible manner and at a responsible level for many years. We ensure that there are and remain proper arrangements for those who suffer damage. If necessary, we will also put pressure on the NAM. We're not gonna abandon these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u279	That is clear; the NAM is liable. If anything should happen, the Groningen cabinet will not abandon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u280	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u281	I see that several spokesmen still want to ask questions, but I am going to put an end to this. We also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u282	In view of the time, Mr President, I regret to have to leave this debate. I thank the rulers. My departure saves you time again. The few motions I have signed with will show what I think is still to be done. So I'm gonna leave that hanging over the market for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u283	I suspect a few people will miss you, Mr Dijkgraaf. Is there a need for a second term? I see that's the case. First of all, Mr Merkies has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u284	Mr. Chairman. My prediction of how the debate would proceed has come to fruition. First, the well-managed speeches of the financial spokesmen, then the commercial break, the introduction of the Prime Minister, and then the referral to colleagues who are not there and to whom we cannot therefore ask the question. However, I would like to thank you for referring to certain questions, particularly those relating to care. We're looking forward to getting there. Colleagues sometimes come up with pictures. That's always nice. I thought I'd throw in a picture sometime. That is this; I do not know if the Minister knows this picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u285	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u286	I hear the Minister say that this reflects a satisfaction survey under the SP-chooser. The graph goes up, so that would mean more and more satisfaction. But no, unfortunately this is a sad picture. This graph deals with the increase in child poverty. It has increased considerably to 421.000 by now. Such a number often doesn't say anything, but the increase mostly does. Under Rutte, this number has increased by 100,000. I call this because today we hear the story of millionaires who have risen in income for the third year in a row. I am also saying this to put the story of Mr Nijboer, in particular, in perspective when it comes to the distribution of income and wealth. The cuts are a problem after all. The Court of Auditors pointed this out. Its effects are not clear. In fact, the Cabinet of many measures does not know what they are doing, how much they cost and what the effects are. It seems to me like a surgeon who thinks to cut the fat, but actually with a blindfold to cut off some of the organs and afterwards doesn't even know what happened. These are serious shortcomings, particularly in the Ministry of Security and Justice. I think there should be a report on this. My name is therefore also under Mrs Schouten's motion. I think we should conclude with each other that it has not been a good idea to put the police under Security and Justice. There will be a motion by Mr Koolmees on this subject, including my signature. Finally, I would like to mention the 30% scheme, the scheme for expats. It now costs 700 million. This regulation is getting very out of hand and we should not continue to delay finding a solution. Something really needs to be done about this. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the importance of the 30% scheme for expats has increased to around EUR 700 million;]] [[Whereas these costs are disproportionate to the actual costs incurred;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the need for the 30% regime and to inform the Court of Justice of this before Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies and Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u287	I hope that the cabinet will address the serious shortcomings so that we do not have to discuss them again next year. After all, we are holding a Day of Accountability here because we want to know what the results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u288	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. The Minister of Finance indicated that the review of operational readiness will be available in March 2017. I think the House of Representatives has made it very clear that operational readiness is a concern at the Ministry of Defence. We ask the Minister whether it is possible to speed up that investigation and, for example, to have it ready by the end of 2016. The minister also indicated that "we're going to look at some standards." That almost looks like we're gonna change the definitions a little bit, and it's gonna look a little different. I can't really imagine that. I believe that this should also really be aimed at improving operational focus. I hope the Minister can confirm that. The effectiveness of the policy was quite a critical point of the Court of Auditors. This was not sufficiently clear in all cases, although it is one of the most important criteria for checking whether the tax money has been spent properly. The Minister has indicated that he will remain in talks with the House of Representatives and the General Court of Auditors. That all sounds a little noncommittal. There is a need for more commitment. I also want to know which of the policy articles that need to be examined once every seven years have never been investigated in the past period. Finally, I hope, like the previous speaker, that the various cabinet members will work very hard on the serious shortcomings, that we will make good progress next year and that we will be able to keep up with that as the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u289	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. Accountability is serious. Not everything goes well in a big government. Much is going well, but if things are not going well, the foreman of the cabinet must take responsibility and take the initiative to improve it. We think he should also reconnect to the House of Representatives. In this way, he must give serious form to his responsibility. A few years ago, there were zero serious shortcomings, and now there are three on the core tasks. That encourages urgent intervention from the top. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court has identified serious shortcomings in the state-law key departments of Security and Justice, Defence and the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas these problems need to be tackled very rapidly with the highest possible political priority;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to lead the resolution of the problems in the areas of Security and Justice, Defence and the Tax Administration as final responsibility for government policy, and to make demonstrable progress and report on progress within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u290	I would point out a crucial difference. The annual report of the Ministry of Security and Justice has a totally different tone than the interview with the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office, rather than the interview with the chief of police of the national police, than what the General Court writes, in short: then what almost everyone says. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court has a strong opinion on the operation of the Ministry of Security and Justice;]] [[Whereas the annual report of the Ministry of Education and Science does not reflect, or hardly reflects, the seriousness of these problems which have been identified several times;]] [[invites the Government, to submit an addendum to the Ministry's annual report, to elaborate on the findings of the General Court, to show self-reflection and to have an external audit carried out on the business culture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u291	Dan DOD. If you do not comply with Article 97 of the Constitution, namely that you must be able to defend your own territory, then you must ensure that that is the case as soon as possible. This motion is not only read in the Netherlands but will also be read on Aruba, for example. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 only 59% of all units within the armed forces achieved the objectives set for operational readiness;]] [[noting that, for the first time, the armed forces cannot fully meet the objective of defending the Dutch and Allied territories;]] [[noting that the General Court calls the decline in the employability of the armed forces a "very worrying fact';]] [[calls on the Government to ensure by the end of 2016 at least that the armed forces fully meet their objectives for the defence of the Dutch and allies territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Knops and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u292	There is quite a bit of criticism about the Tax Office, but at least the Secretary of State has acknowledged the problems. The Minister has also made this very clear. In this respect, the Ministry deals differently and more positively with the criticism than, for example, V and J. However, I have tabled a motion because it is a very precise question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ICT problems in the Tax Administration ensure that tax changes are not possible or difficult in the coming years;]] [[Considering that this affects the democratic budget law of the Chamber and that the Court needs to understand what changes and reforms are still and which are not technically possible;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of which revisions of the tax system are still possible and which are no longer technically feasible, to take as a reference the measures contained in the Van Dijkhuizen report and to devote a special paragraph to the technical possibilities for changing the system of supplements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u293	I have two comments to make. I await with great interest the answer of the Minister of Finance to the question of tax subsidies on fuel-efficient cars. Then about MH17. I see a lot of people working hard. However, two things have been said which are contrary to what was said earlier in this Chamber. If you want to know what happened, you want to see the raw radar footage. Russia has illegally destroyed it. Secretary of State Dijksma indicated earlier in the debate on radar data that it is possible to start a procedure at ICAO. You must have had consultations with Russia first. The Prime Minister is now saying that this is no longer possible. I want clarification on this. If that's not possible now, then later, it's said. There's a big difference between ICAO, which is about the OVV report, and the JIT and the D.A. Minister Van der Steur himself wrote to the Chamber that the D.A. didn't ask for the radar images. When I ask whether this has happened in the meantime, I do not expect that this is interference in politics, since the government itself has reported this earlier. I'm just expecting an answer to the question of whether the justice system still wants those raw primary radar images.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u294	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the comprehensive and adequate answer to the questions put by the Chamber. I have three more points, which I would like to draw attention to. The first is the call to the social partners to talk about higher wages in the market sector. I would like to thank the Cabinet for its commitment to this and to discuss it. I hope it also leads to results, because there is real room for it. It is economically sensible and socio-economically fair that employees should have a greater share of what they produce. The second point, for which all the groups have rightly called for attention, concerns the direction, control, of Security and Justice, Defence and the Tax Administration. The cabinet has indicated that it will make even more work of this than in the past year. I have also heard the ambition that next year the serious shortcomings have been eliminated. When I look at the problems, it seems to me to be quite ambitious, but I like to hold the cabinet to them. We will then see what progress is being made in the budget. The third point is the 30% regime. I've already seen a motion pass to reconsider this arrangement. I wonder how the cabinet reacts to that. After all, the cabinet itself has already announced that it will carry out a thorough assessment of the 30% regime. I would like to hear the government's views on this, because we also have critical views on this. Finally, I would like to thank the officials for the tremendous amount of work they have done. We got a bunch of annual reports that you could spend the whole weekend, from early in the morning to late in the evening, with sweet. It was also easy to read. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for the clear judgements, the reports and the investigations which I found very useful and which have been cited a great deal today, and of which I refer to two: the 30% scheme and the research into older people's unemployment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u295	Mr Merkies, we are not going to have another debate here. You may only interrupt if you really have something to ask that has not yet been discussed. There has been a sufficient exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u296	Mr Nijboer specifically mentioned the 30% regime. I'm glad he does. We are both critical of that. I wonder what his opinion is: does he support the call for review?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u297	The PvdA Group considers that, given the effectiveness, the budgetary envelope of 700 million and also the displacement effects, the scheme should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u298	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy grew by 2% last year. That is good news in itself, but the cabinet wants us to believe that its policy is responsible. However, this growth is not thanks to this cabinet policy, but rather despite it. The cabinet forgets to mention the real variables that have stimulated the economy. Last year, for example, the oil price halved, as did interest rates and inflation. The value of the euro fell by as much as 20%. These are variables that drive an economy. Cabinet policy has frustrated the economy rather than stimulated it. What would the economy have been like with an oil price of $100? How did the housing market recover with a double interest rate? What would have happened to purchasing power in the event of 2% inflation? How about corporate investment at a $100 oil price? How about exports with a euro of €1.35? We will never know, but one thing I know for sure: these variables have brought about growth rather than government policy. The cabinet is also in denial, with only one goal: how do we get on the road? Let me get my facts straight. The ministries of V and J and of Defense and the IRS have been a mess for years. That's what the General Court says. That's the alarm clock. This Prime Minister doesn't go any further than: we're doing our stinking best to improve it. However, he does not want to attach any obligation to results, not at all. Pensioners have suffered a different denial of the Prime Minister's lack of purchasing power in recent years. Prime Minister, I would advise you to take a look at the medium-term review of the CPB, in particular Annex 12. In 2010, pensioners lost 0.5% of their purchasing power and 1.6% in 2011. In 2012, it was 1.4%, in 2013 3.5%, in 2014 0.1% and in 2015 1.1%. This is a retired couple with a small supplementary pension of €10,000. Pensioners have been affected in their purchasing power year in, year out, since Mr Rutte was at the helm. Older people's care has also been cut off with rents that have gone up and high own contributions for domestic help. That is not reflected in the purchasing power figures. Another fact is that pensions have not been indexed in recent years. Next year, there will probably be a massive reduction. The Minister of Finance calls our plan quatsch, but the fact is that he benefits from the low interest rate. In 2014, he paid an interest rate of 1.5% and in 2015 an interest rate of 0.7%. In 2014, he paid 8.8 billion interest charges and in 2015 7.9 billion, while the debt was the same. This Minister of Finance thus benefited from the fact that interest rates are low. However, the fact is that pension funds are flooded because of the same low interest rates. Shorts become inevitable. All the PVV is asking is for this minister's advantage to be passed on to the disabled pensioners, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ECB has reduced interest rates to zero;]] [[noting that due to low interest rates pensions cannot be indexed and may need to be reduced;]] [[noting that the low interest rate is favourable to the Treasury by reducing interest charges on the public debt by 1 billion;]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance thus benefits from the low interest rate, while at the same time pensioners have been severely overwhelmed;]] [[calls on the government to use the interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW to compensate for the non-indexation and possibly shortening of pension benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u299	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for their reply. I must honestly say that I was more satisfied with the answer given by the Minister of Finance than with the answer given by the Prime Minister. The picture is that accountability isn't really the Prime Minister's thing. His attitude to me today sounds like "nothing's wrong, folks; it's all gonna be okay." I think that is a testimony of a lack of realism and a lack of sense of urgency, because there is a lot going on and it is indeed a mess with V and J. We are all happy with all the police officers, the guards and the people in the security chain who are guarding our security, but there is also a lot going on. There's been trouble with the police, with the D.A.'s office, with the NFI and with the D.J.I. During the last budget debate, we have also noted that there are many budgetary gaps. The Court of Auditors writes that the Ministry is not in control and that it simply cannot be adjusted. In other words, it has indeed become a mess. All this has happened under the responsibility of the VVD. The Ministry of Security and Justice was of course the flagship of the VVD. D66 believes that the cabinet should now really show that the promises made in May last year and in the autumn of last year are being fulfilled and that the cabinet should report to Princess Day on the progress of implementation. However, we also want the General Court to look into this process, because weird eyes force and because it is good to keep our finger on the pulse so that we know how far we are with the implementation of those improvements. That is why Mrs Schouten will be making such a motion on my behalf. Another point is the unbundling of police and justice. Basically, D66 believes that the police belong to the Home Office and that the Justice Department has a separate task because of the checks-and-balances. To make this clear, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Security and Justice has had serious problems since its inception and is not in control;]] [[Whereas the complexity and extent of the Ministry of Security and Justice is one of the causes of the problems existing in that Ministry;]] [[having noted that the De Graaf motion was adopted in the First Chamber, which calls for the administration of the police to be returned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the next cabinet formation and asks the government to take charge of its preparation;]] [[noting that such preparation is of use for the 2017 formation only if the results are available well before the beginning of that formation;]] [[calls on the Government to make the findings available to the House of Representatives by Prinsjesdag 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees, Mr Schouten and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u300	I was talking about January 1st in my first term. Why did I make that Prince's Day? I did this because during this debate a report was presented from a meeting on 10 February 2016 with the Minister for Security and Justice. In that consultation, Minister Van der Steur promised to make a note to the First Chamber before the summer containing the advantages and disadvantages of the division of police and justice. I therefore assume that the Minister will leave or take over the ruling on this motion to the Chamber because this has already been promised by the Minister of Security and Justice in the First Chamber. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Both this motion and the motion tabled by Mrs Schouten are therefore very clear. In order to show that accountability and control and monitoring of the process are important matters, I assume that the coalition parties will support both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u301	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot going on in this country. It is true that we sometimes forget that when we mainly zoom in on things that are not going well. But precisely because so many things are going well, it is important to see which things really need improvement. That is what this debate was about as far as we were concerned. It is not intended to put salt on every snail, but to find where there is a real need for improvement. The General Court has made it very clear in what areas this applies: in the case of Security and Justice, in the case of Defence and in the case of the Tax Office. But there was a big difference between those three. It has been recognised by the Department of Defence and the Tax Administration that improvements need to be made and that real action is being taken on them. Security and the Justice Department aren't gonna let that go. The Prime Minister was actually very positive. He said that measures have been taken and that they are being worked on. It was almost even better than last year. If there is a serious imperfection, I cannot say that it is better than in previous years, but that aside. It is precisely because the Chamber has no idea whether it is actually doing so much better, even more so: the measures announced in 2014 have not led to any substantial improvement so far. It is of the utmost importance to us that the Chamber should now have a better view of them. That's what the interrupting debate with the Prime Minister was about. The Prime Minister suggested that I said that this could be included in the budget. That wasn't my point at all. We would like to see a separate report sent to the Chamber at the same time as the budget documents on Princess Day. To emphasise that point and because we consider this to be a very important matter, I have the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the General Court concludes that financial management at the Ministry of Security and Justice (V and J), including national police, the prison system and the strengthening of the criminal justice chain, is still not in order and that the control function is seen as serious imperfection;]] [[Whereas the improvements made in recent years have led to insufficient results;]] [[Calls on the Government to have the Minister of V and J and the Minister of Finance report both on Princess Day and on the Spring Note on the progress of the improvement measures and on the extent to which the Ministry of V and J is "in control';]] [[invites the Government also to have the General Court assess these reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouten, Mr Koolmees, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Merkies and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u302	The Minister of Finance owes me some answers. I'll wait for it. I would like to make one more point. I had asked at the beginning of my speech whether the cabinet wanted to reflect on the extent to which it succeeded in building bridges in society where there are still contradictions. I haven't heard that reflection. Perhaps the Prime Minister was able to think a little more about this at his second term, and he can give his own insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u303	Mr. Chairman. I started my contribution in the first term with the question of what will ultimately be the legacy of this cabinet, because this is the last Day of Accountability. I started by noting that the cabinet is leaving behind a budget that is better in order, with better results and some economic growth. It is also a legacy that may consist of three Departments left in disarray: Security and Justice, Defence and the Tax Administration. It is clear that the problems there are so great that they can never be resolved before the end of this cabinet period. The lightness with which this issue is approached does not provide a good perspective for quick solutions. Unfortunately. It is also a legacy in which this climate cabinet will go into history because of a cabinet period in which many agreements were concluded under the motto "paper is patient" but where results were largely unfolding. Once again, it has not been possible to discuss this with the government at a proper level. In the area of refugees... I understand that the interest in my contribution to the cabinet is not that great. Shall I stop? Is that wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u304	No, Mr Grashoff. I think they're listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u305	Then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u306	Yes. They all heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u307	Many refugees were received in 2015. By the way, this was to a large extent thanks to our local government and thanks to a lot of volunteers and good people in the Netherlands who lend themselves to this. However, it has not succeeded in achieving a strategy that learns from the mistakes of the past in how to deal with structural integration. I still have some hope that the Prime Minister will take that up in the second term when he discusses my motion. As far as employment is concerned, I have to say that the cabinet is working on economic recovery, but lacks creativity and real political will to cut back on specific employment problems, with young people and with long-term unemployment. I'm filing a few motions to strengthen this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure the proper entry of status holders into the labour market, it is important to focus on investing in training opportunities, and that guidance in this process is desirable;]] [[considers that it should be based on individual, integrated language and training pathways rather than simply obtaining an integration examination, which governs the language at level A2;]] [[Calls on the Government, in line with the recommendations of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, to make maximum use of integrated pathways of language and training based on the employment opportunities of the status holders;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in consultations with civil society organisations, educational institutions and municipalities with a view to launching a joint approach in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CO emissions increased in 2015;]] [[Whereas, as long as economic growth and growth of CO emissions remain linked, the achievement of the Paris climate targets remains out of reach;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to draw up a concrete strategy for decoupling economic growth and CO emissions and to start implementing them as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of long-term unemployed in the Netherlands is high and is only falling slowly;]] [[Whereas this group needs specific measures to prevent them from never being able to join the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a further, concrete package of measures with clear quantitative objectives as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of young unemployed is still very high and even increased compared to March 2015;]] [[Whereas this group needs specific measures to prevent them from becoming a lost generation;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a further, concrete package of measures with clear quantitative objectives as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-12]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-13]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u308	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance for their first answer. We owe it to taxpayers to account for public expenditure in a transparent manner and to make it clear whether money is well spent. It has to be and can be even better. It is important to get to work quickly on the many clear recommendations made by the General Court. We look forward to concrete proposals and measures from the cabinet. Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer to the last question, which is important to me in the first term. This one lives with a lot of people, especially the elderly I speak with. Does the Prime Minister feel responsible for the damage, pain and unrest caused by decentralisation in the social domain and care in 2015? How does the cabinet prevent us from having to ask this painful question again next year in 2016? The answers to our other, focused questions do not reassure us enough yet. For my encouragement, I shall table three motions. In addition, I would like to refer once again to the two motions of 50PLUS adopted in the First Chamber of colleagues Nagel and Van Rooijen. Since this cabinet is taking a stroll with its central objective of balanced purchasing power development for all sections of the population and thereby failing 3 million pensioners, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the CBS, the purchasing power development of pensioners over the past 15 years has been significantly less favourable than that of workers;]] [[Whereas a more balanced purchasing power development of workers, people unable to work and those who have worked is desirable;]] [[invites the government, at the latest on Prinsjesdag, to make concrete proposals to bring the purchasing power development of pensioners and those unable to work in line with that of workers, on an occasional and structural basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u309	50PLUS does not believe in creating jobs for 50PLUS people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u310	You will have to file your motions, otherwise you will be in short supply of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u311	And they certainly don't fall out of the sky. That's the point. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court of Auditors considers that the policy to combat long-term old-age unemployment is more appropriate and possible to understand the number of older unemployed, the financial importance of policy instruments and the effectiveness of these instruments;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the recommendations of the General Court on this matter as far as possible and as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the government, as far as possible in the upcoming action plan for older unemployed, to ensure that policies work, are effective and efficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u312	I'm filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the General Court has identified difficulties in determining the legality of expenditure in the municipal social domain;]] [[Whereas, according to the General Court, these problems may not have been resolved for the following accounting year;]] [[Whereas the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has an active responsibility under the Municipal Law for problems arising from decentralisation in the system of accountability and supervision of municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse this issue and to determine whether and what legislative and regulatory changes are necessary depending on its outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u313	Mr. Chairman. During Prince's Day, we talked about a " pacifier budget" because after years of pain, the cabinet suddenly handed out 5 billion to voters. "Trickets for the voters" we called it. That is the way politics works in The Hague. That's the political game. We see that happen again and again: first the acid, then the sweet. In order not to let that happen, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, despite objections from several economists, this cabinet carried out a significant package of burdens and cuts in its initial years;]] [[Considering that last year, after these five years of pain, five billion in relief was distributed to the people in the country;]] [[whereas several economists indicate that this procyclical fiscal policy last year is irresponsible;]] [[Considers that the cycle of "first the acid and then the sweet" born from electoral considerations is harmful to our country;]] [[points out that the greatest possible independence of the electoral cycle should be exercised in the budgetary cycles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u314	The second point: 2016. In my first term, I gave a look back at 2015. 2016 should be the year of diversity, a year in which diversity gets a voice. We can see that there has been a huge debate over racism and discrimination in recent days. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in recent days the social debate on discrimination and racism has been stirred up and there have been reprehensible manifestations of racist ideas which have had a major impact;]] [[Whereas this heated debate could provide an opportunity for a broader social debate on the fight against racism and discrimination and to promote our social cohesion;]] [[calls on the Government to use this momentum and, with renewed energy, to make the fight against discrimination and racism and to promote social cohesion a political priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u315	Can Mr Kuzu explain once again his motion on the independence of budgetary cycles? I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u316	Here's what's important. We can see that in a cabinet period the first few years the belt is greatly tightened and that just before elections the belt is released again. We believe that as much independence as possible should be exercised in the budgetary cycle, or at least in the way in which it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u317	That you want to go against the cycle, I understand, but what's that independence about? I ask this because it is very difficult for us to vote in favour of this motion if this vagueness is retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u318	Here's what's important. Let me give you a very concrete example. We see that a year before the elections, 5 billion will be distributed to calm the moods, while economists and a lot of people in the country raise objections, because that is not justified. Then we say: you should not do that because of electoral considerations, but because you should have the best intentions with this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u319	Mr President, I have seen Mr Kuzu in the Chamber at two moments today, namely at the two times when he himself was speaking. This means that no question has been asked and no debate has taken place with the government. In the second term there are now points that may or may not be valid, which I am not going to enter into, but which have not been raised in the first term and in the debate. Would Mr Kuzu give a brief reflection on how he would like to conduct the debate with the government or with the Chamber? Can he give us a brief statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u320	Mr Omtzigt knows very well that we are a two-man group. I just took part in a general discussion on the Middle East. I do need to use my time more efficiently than the time he has. We are doing our best to ensure that we can participate in as many interesting debates as possible and offer added value. Accountability day is such an important moment, where you still have to highlight a number of points. In the context of the size of our group, which is still small, but which is going to grow in 2017, you can be sure that we will take a little more time to hold this type of debate after 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u321	So Mr Kuzu does not think it is necessary to put a question at all to the Prime Minister in this Chamber or to see what kind of answer might come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u322	I have just indicated that I have also been in a general discussion on the Middle East, also a very important subject. That's where I sat next to your colleague Knops. Maybe he can report on everything that's happened there. That was because of efficiency with time and not because we were not interested in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u323	That debate only started this afternoon, and this was also going on this morning. If anyone is gone for half an hour, I understand that, especially with a small group, but Mr Kuzu comes in when he himself speaks and walks away when he is finished in the chair. That does not provide an optimal way to exchange views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u324	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u325	Shall I make a point, too? Mr Omtzigt saw me standing here alone, but I have been in the Chamber a little longer. A general consultation does not take half an hour, as Mr Omtzig knows very well. That took a little longer than half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u326	I think this is a rather sporty comment from Mr Omtzigt. He knows how difficult it is for small groups to operate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u327	I would like to thank Mr Grashoff for this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u328	Mr. Chairman. Security is the core task of the State. This is a central task which this government is very seriously neglecting. This morning, the chief of state, Mr. Bolhaar, pulled the emergency brake. It's five to twelve, all right. We are fighting violently against terrorists and serious and organized crime. I therefore have the next motion. I would like to point out that I do not follow the budgetary cycle, because it is indeed five to twelve and therefore urgent. We already need money to go to Security and Justice. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is seriously neglecting the core security task;]] [[whereas the police and the prosecutors have far too little capacity in the fight against serious criminals and terrorists;]] [[Whereas approximately 10% of the police capacity is affected by the influx of asylum and this is to the detriment of, inter alia, the fight against organised crime;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet reserves more than EUR 500 million for the so-called asylum reserve;]] [[calls on the government to make this budget available to the police and the prosecution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34475-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u329	Mr. Chairman. We have just received a schedule stating that a VAO will first take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u330	That's right. You are right, Mr Omtzigt. We're gonna deal with that in ten minutes. So you do not have to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-5.u331	Okay.
