ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The threat of terror has never been so great. We are at war with ISIS, but our armed forces, the instrument to ensure our security, are in a depravable state. Last Saturday, the separation commander of the army, General De Kruif, stated in the AD that more than half of his vehicles could not be used. The army is suffering from a serious lack of ammunition. Connection systems are still running on Windows XP. Military people even have to search Marketplace for parts to solve problems. It's terrible to see. The military deserves better; the Netherlands deserves better. I have the following questions. What is the Secretary of Defense finally going to do to solve these enormous problems in the army? When does she come forward with a long-term vision for the armed forces, something that General De Kruif strongly advocates? What is the Minister going to do with the strong criticism of NATO, which said that the Netherlands is spending far too little money on the armed forces? How is she going to seduce the Minister of Finance to come up with extra billions for defence? I'd like answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Bontes for the questions he has put. General De Kruif actually said the same thing in the AD last Saturday as I reported to the Chamber earlier, for example in the 2016 budget and in particular in the employability report. It clearly states that we still have major problems with material readiness. I also said this hasn't been resolved for a while. Therefore, the step-by-step progress that can be achieved through, for example, the intensifications in the 2016 budget does not mean that its effects are already felt by operational units. Mr Bontes says that the armed forces deserve better. I wholeheartedly agree with him. That is why I have outlined the multiannual perspective, partly in response to the first and second motion for a resolution van der Staaij. I know that Mr Bontes is firmly in favour of further intensification, and that is exactly what I have the budgetary bilateral with my colleague in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Minister for her answers, but I have the feeling that she still does not really see the urgency of this. General De Kruif has stated before that our army has forgotten the real fighting. You can't do that in these times, can you? The Minister has agreed with NATO to spend 2% of the national income on defence. When is the cabinet going to keep this appointment? When does the Minister show himself to be a reliable ally? When, as my group has wanted for years, will it strengthen defence by an additional EUR 5 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	I do feel the urgency, because I am allowed to work day in, day out with the armed forces. So I have a very clear view of where the pain is. I'm sure he's part of the Army Command, but he's also part of the other military units. I have often had an intensive exchange of views with the Chamber on the problems arising from two decades of targets and successive cuts. Under the leadership of this cabinet, an intensification, a way up, has been deployed. That goes one step at a time. I have also said that the end of these necessary intensifications cannot yet be seen. Mr Bontes rightly states that agreements were made at the last NATO summit in Wales. There's another NATO summit coming up in Warsaw. Here, too, the so-called 2% NATO standard will be discussed. The Netherlands is far below that; I make no secret of that either. It is currently 1.13% or 1.14% of GDP. We will really have to do better, as NATO says, but that also has to do with the financial possibilities that the cabinet has to give at a certain rate. I put it in a debate with the Chamber last week for a reason: if we want to get anywhere near the European NATO average, we need 2 billion. I keep repeating that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	It's all too little too late, what the minister says today. We have to act now. It's not words, it's deeds. We don't need millions right now. We need billions. I come to my last question. The Netherlands is facing an enormous threat of terror. Can the Minister guarantee that the operational capacity of all armies is sufficient to deal with this threat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	The armed forces are deployed on the basis of the so-called employability objectives. That's the level of ambition. It's kind of a weird word, but it's those employability goals that count. Again and again, the Chamber is informed whether the armed forces can achieve those employability objectives. This is not always easy, but the Dutch armed forces are prepared for their tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Minister does not leave behind to constantly plead on radio and TV for more money for defense. The question is what is actually happening in this Chamber. Is the Minister prepared to translate these words, those wishes and the need for them into concrete proposals, for example in the spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	As usual, I have budgetary discussions with the Minister of Finance in the coming weeks, like my other colleagues. They aren't so much about increasing budgets in the Spring Paper, because intensifications are presented to the Chamber in the 2017 budget, so on Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	Last week, we also heard from the Minister how important it is that more money is added for the defence sector. We let that go for a while, in a way. However, in her tone and style, it almost seems as if the Minister has not been responsible for the situation in the Defense Department for three years, regardless of the call for more money. I still have to ask what the Minister has actually done with the resources she has in the last three years. What choices has she made so that an interview as it is now given doesn't have to happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would like to say to Mrs Belhaj: do you have a moment? Three years can't be summarized in a few minutes. It is not for nothing that we have taken the way forward when this cabinet is in office. Very drastic choices had to be made, even at the beginning of the cabinet, partly as a result of previous decision-making. I'm not running away from that at all, because I'm just taking over that responsibility. Do I feel responsible? From crown to small toe; let that be clear. I'm working on this every day. I just told you, I see what's still the pain in the operational units every day. Over the past three years, the multi-annual perspective outlined has led to different intensifications. We will have to continue to take that path forward to ensure that the armed forces can continue to do what they do and that this house can continue to build and rely on the deployment of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	I thank the Secretary of Defense for her answers. Two more series of oral questions would be put to the Minister for Housing and National Service. However, I have just been informed that he is stuck in the First Chamber. There's a lot of calls coming in to see what time he can be about done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	I have just been informed that the Minister will not be here until 2.30 p.m. It's also not entirely certain if he'll be here after 2:30 p.m. I propose that we at least suspend until 2.30 p.m. and then discuss it with the questioners.
