ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Security and Justice, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. All speakers have a maximum of six minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. When you're in the middle of life, it's hard to imagine that there are people who experience their lives as a great burden. Sometimes it's people who aren't or barely sick, but who have done and experienced everything they wanted in life. They have seen the people with whom they have shaped their lives, loved ones, friends, even children, disappear. They are people who experience a sense of severe loneliness, although they are objectively not lonely. They're people who hope every day it'll be their last day. They find their lives completed and want help to end that life in a humane manner so that their last but very important autonomous desire is fulfilled. Those who do not, or have only minor medical complaints, but genuinely suffer from life itself, cannot now be helped by the death wish. This to great disappointment, or self despair of the people involved. The VVD considers, in principle, that those who consider, without external pressure, that his or her life is complete should have the way to help with a self-chosen end of life. Abuse must always be ruled out. At the same time, we must bear in mind the questions raised by many people. What does it mean when people who are not sick are helped to end their lives? How do you prevent abuse? What guarantees are there to ensure that this is the explicit desire of people themselves? These are major concerns that must also be taken seriously. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is therefore essential that sharp conditions are met for dying aid for people who consider their lives to be complete. Abuse must be ruled out. There should be a clear review framework on the basis of which to assess whether life has been completed. The competence and expertise of the aid provider providing death aid should be clearly defined and can be assessed. The support for current euthanasia practice should not be affected. The VVD is happy with the balanced cabinet response to the report of the Schnabel Committee. In the response, the cabinet agrees with our principled view that helping a self-chosen end of life should be open to those who consider, without external pressure, that their lives are complete. The cabinet indicated that it would opt for additional legislation in addition to the current euthanasia law, which would ensure careful practice. We are talking about legislation based on the autonomy of the individual. In the cabinet response, the VVD sees sufficient leads to look forward to the legislative process with confidence. However, the final review cannot take place until there is a legislative proposal. We will not take that review lightly. Precisely because end of life requires extreme care, we need to check for robust conditions. At what time do the ministers expect the bill to be submitted to the Chamber? A possible age limit shall be left in the middle of the letter. It is written about "older people," but as far as the VVD is concerned, no age limit can actually be applied for completed life, although we understand the discomfort felt by young people who say they consider their lives to be complete. That is really a point that deserves further attention. But an age limit for completed life could actually contribute to the feeling that you don't matter from a certain age, something the VVD doesn't want, because everyone matters, whatever your age is. How's the cabinet looking at this? The Schnabel Committee emphasizes that the current euthanasia law already provides ample space for those who state that they consider their lives to be complete. These are people suffering from a build-up of age complaints. In practice, however, a euthanasia wish of people with a build-up of age complaints is rarely met. Does the cabinet see opportunities to ensure that in practice this conclusion of the Schnabel Committee is given more substance? Could it help if the ministries of VWS and of Security and Justice come up with a further hand delivery in this area, in line with the hand delivery that came about euthanasia in dementia in December 2015? I'd like a response. I conclude by knowing that today's debate is certainly not the end of the discussion. But as far as the VVD is concerned, this debate is an important step towards a country in which people who consider, without pressure from outside, that their lives are complete, the way to helping a decent end of life is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	This morning, a national newspaper had a nice interview with Mr. Rutte. He indicated that he found the timing of this debate and the cabinet proposal somewhat uncomfortable. How could it have happened that this cabinet response has been sent to the Chamber at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	I wanted to make it clear that some people have said that it is coming to the Chamber now because elections are coming. That leads to an uncomfortable feeling, and I get that. But I think we've been working on this theme from the VVD for a long time. We consider this issue to be very important. Nothing for nothing has been asked for Mr Schnabel's research in 2013. We got that report in February of this year. The cabinet simply needed time to come up with a balanced response to that report. I respect that. That leads to the date on which that reaction comes out. I understand that that feels uncomfortable, I wanted to name it, but what I also wanted to say is that this is a long journey that needs its time. The response is now coming, with which the discussion is far from complete. There will be legislation, in which we will have a wide-ranging exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	The VVD has been working on this subject for a long time. In 2012, your group colleague, Van Miltenburg, stated in a response of his free will that self-determination is a great asset, albeit that you cannot demand that the government honour your wish to die. When I look at the cabinet proposal and listen to your contributions, I read and hear a completely different story. What has happened in recent years that has led to a change in the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	I don't see that change. The principle of self-determination for people who consider their lives truly complete, who have seen and experienced everything they have wanted to experience, who suffer from life itself, has long been shared by the VVD Group. You must be aware of all the social concerns that exist and all the conditions that need to be met, before you can really shape something like this. It's not for nothing that we've asked for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	I understand that self-determination and autonomy in the VVD are important concepts. But will Mr Rutte acknowledge that absolute autonomy, as Mr Schnabel points out, is actually an illusion and that decision-making is always taking place in a social context, which has a major impact on society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	In my contribution, I have made it very clear that we really need to be aware of what this brings about for people. I said very clearly in that interview today that you are trying to organise and make things possible in a legislative process, but under strict conditions. It is very important that we always look over our shoulder to see if we have included society in that trajectory. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Rutte makes it clear that, if it is up to this cabinet, there will still be legislation in which you can talk about all kinds of conditions and due diligence requirements. But today it is also a very fundamental debate. Mr Rutte mentioned very clearly the principle of self-determination, from which the VVD reasons in this case. If I also hear that there is no age limit, when will there still be limits to self-determination? When can the liberal vision, in the vision of the VVD, say: can we, as a government for the protection of life, draw a hard line here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	The protection is that of course you want to be absolutely sure that abuse is excluded, that it is really about the choice of oneself, that it is not under pressure and that it is quite clear that there is a persistent desire and not an impulse. There are all kinds of limitations and all kinds of conditions that require extreme care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	But now it's very concrete. There are so many situations in society in which people in the brokenness of this existence have to do with loss experiences. You're 50 and you're dealing with a divorce that you hate. Is that a reason to say that I don't need life anymore? And do we have to respect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	We are now going to look very much at the casuism. However, I believe that this can only be carefully assessed in the individual case. I also read this very clearly in the cabinet response. Someone who guides such a process should look very closely: is there not a whim or are we dealing with a persistent desire? I cannot judge individual situations, but I can very well imagine that people who feel that desire very deep and very long and that there is a big difference, I think, between the SGP and the VVD. If we can do that, if we can help someone, which makes him want to get back on with his life, then we should just do it. That is very clear in the cabinet response and I feel very much at home with it. Well, that's definitely what we should do. The big difference between the VVD and the SGP is that by definition the SGP says no, a harnessed no: we are not thinking about that either, because we do not want this. However, we say: yes, if so. And then there will be a whole zipper of conditions to be met. It needs to be looked at carefully, and if there are other possibilities, we must also go down that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	A harnessed no, that's true, but further thinking is also on the agenda. If you say "no" to death, you say "yes" to life and then as a society you have to put something against all those lonely feelings that people have to deal with. How does the VVD weigh that so many people have to do with lack of sense in their existence, with loss experiences and with the feeling that they no longer matter and are no longer appreciated by their family or their surroundings? Then what's the VVD's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	If there's one party attached to life, that's the VVD. We love life and we are very positive in life. We want to give it maximum shape. That's very essential. But it may be, as I have also outlined, that at some point people have seen all the people around them with whom they have shaped life disappear and that they have the loss experiences that Mr Van der Staaij is talking about. They can really think: I don't need it anymore, I just don't need it anymore. If we are able to get someone with an intervention, with help, with attention to say: I want to go on, then that's fine and then we have to do it. But that's not gonna work for everyone. Then I wonder what is more merciful: say "you must go on and I am merciful to you" or "you do not have to go on and I am willing to help you"? We choose the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	The VVD says that there must be clear preconditions. There must be a proper examination of whether the death wish is persistent. But someone who struggles with life or suffers from life, gets a death watch when it's up to the cabinet. Is that the right step, the right term? Hasn't the outcome of the conversation been determined by sending a death watcher along?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	This is a relevant question from Mrs Leijten. There can be a lot of things in a word. I'm willing to see if we can find another terminology that's more appropriate. It is a counselor who explicitly considers whether a medical intervention or social intervention can take away the death wish. Only if you can't, can such a person provide guidance to the death wish that there is. But sure, that terminology is something to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	When studying this difficult theme, it struck me that when people struggle with life, if they may think "my life has no meaning anymore" and want to talk about it, then there is no place in our health care. That's a private matter, it won't be reimbursed. When people wrestle and say "I think I want to die," they get a death counselor, but if they need a life counselor before, it doesn't fit. I like that I sense at the VVD space to look at that. I believe that we should listen to and watch with people who consider their lives to be complete or who think it is complete. We should not say: the government sends a specially trained person who guides that irreversible end. I feel there's room at the VVD to look for a better flight path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's right. We certainly have to send someone specially trained, because it's a complex matter and someone like that has to be able to do a lot. He needs to understand a lot about medical matters as well as social interventions. The terminology can indeed give rise to the suggestion that only one way out is possible, and it should not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. About 25 years ago an essay by Huib Drion appeared: The self-willed end of old people. He believed that older people could find greater peace in it if they had a means to get out of their lives in an acceptable way and at an appropriate time. The desire of people to have a dignified end of life without resorting to unacceptable means or methods has remained valid. For example, the Citizens' Initiative completed Life in a short time collected thousands of signatures. Due to the desire of an increasing group of Dutch people to gain more self-determination when they consider their lives to be complete, a committee of wise men was appointed in 2014. A comprehensive and careful report followed. They took extra time. I would also like to thank the committee for this work. D66 agrees with the observation that the current euthanasia legislation works well and can count on strong support. Many of the people who see life as complete can also be assisted within the frameworks of the euthanasia law. So we do not want to interfere with that law at all, but it remains a requirement that suffering has to a large extent a medical basis, as the Schnabel report also confirmed. In doing so, the current legislation does not offer everyone a dying wish for a complete life, while we were looking for opportunities for these people. That is why I appreciate the brave decision of the Cabinet to give people who see their lives as completed an opportunity. I can already see that a lot of discussion is being unleashed in society, and that is also very good. It turns out that there are a lot of advocates of such a law, but there are also people who express their concerns. I understand that, because such a proposal is very far-reaching. Many important conditions have been mentioned. There must be good care. Older people shouldn't feel redundant. There must be support in maintaining contacts so that loneliness can be avoided. There is a great demand in society: take good care of your elders. I wholeheartedly endorse all of this, but I do want to oppose the idea that a law would be or would create an easy solution. I do not see the law as a solution at all, but I do see it as an opportunity for only those people who want to use it, who do not want any more help than help in dying. I see the law as an opportunity for people who want to die in a way worthy of them. That will always be a complicated, extremely difficult choice, and above all it will remain a personal choice. Someone who has the vast majority of his life behind him has gained enough life experience to determine for himself whether his life is still of value. It is not for others to determine whether someone's life is still valuable. That's up to that person himself. There's no duty to live. Shortly after the proposal was published, there were several stories in the media of people who see their lives as complete. Among them were also people who are still being visited by their children and who have grandchildren who still make them happy. Some have even found a partner at a later age, yet there is little or no perspective for them: life is behind them instead of before them. They suffer from one life that has become too long for them. Medical developments, of course, also cause people to get older, but that is not a blessing for everyone; growing old can sometimes feel like a burden. A 91-year-old lady said nothing new is coming in. A gentleman of no less than 95 years old who is still fit, we saw him yesterday still wary in a television programme, who doesn't want to see the decline. He says: Death is coming anyway, but I want to prevent the last piece from becoming unbearable. I don't need a pill to die, but I want a pill to prevent suffering. He'd let me know before. If one does not want to wait for inevitable death but prefers a self-chosen end of life, there is self-determination. Would such a person be eligible for help with suicide? There does not seem to be unbearable suffering yet, but is that a requirement? And who will judge whether that suffering is unbearable? The Minister is talking about the death aid bill. Can the Commission explain exactly who these are and what exact requirements they have to meet? For example, should they be present at the time of death? D66 considers it important that the cabinet should seek to increase the right to self-determination, but wonders what happens next. There is a clear position, but the further procedure is unclear. I'd like to hear what the timing is. The question of how to proceed has already been raised in my party. We, too, are in the process of legislation on this important but complex subject. And we find that, now that the letter is before us, the social debate we have been having on this for years is becoming very explicit and much more pregnant. It seems that if such a bill is announced, people will think even more about whether they want it or not. A more concrete proposal open to all suggestions could make a further contribution to this. That's why I'm going through with my bill. We do not want to stop thinking about this and invite everyone to think with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs Dijkstra points out that this is also a cause for great debate within the parties. It was striking that the chairman of the advisory committee, Mr Schnabel, who is now also a D66 senator, first said that he felt it should be possible. However, when he started talking and thinking about it, he said that this is too risky, especially for people who are vulnerable and dependent. Is he unique in that? What is the impact in the D66 fraction of such thoughts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have already explained a few times before that the Schnabel report must of course be carried by several members of that committee. It is never just the President who expresses that. I think that is something I know for sure that our party is also being looked at and considered in different ways. But dominant is the idea that we should make it possible for the people who ask this question, namely those who want, when their lives are complete, there is an opportunity to die in a dignified manner with possibly family and others present. If there is no medical basis, the euthanasia law is not eligible. We think it is very important that something be arranged for these people, even if it may be about a group that is not very large. That is still the decisive factor in the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Then what is Mrs Dijkstra's reaction to the point that completed life is sometimes a somewhat misleading label, because many people are quite ambivalent about whether or not they want to die? Mr Schabel has also made this point from the committee. People are dealing with loss experiences. Sometimes it's a big struggle and a lot of tragedy. It is not very clear at all whether people say: yes, okay, it is clearly my life is complete and I want to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	If you ask "what do you think of that?', I'll say yes. That is why you have to look very closely, and I am doing so as well as I can in the legislative proposal to ensure that it is voluntary, that it is a sustainable and well-considered wish and that there is willpower. You have to take care of this incredibly carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	I totally agree with that. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Dijkstra on her speech. I know a lot about that, as will be heard in the contribution of the GroenLinks. Here's what I was wondering. You can arrange this in different ways in such a law. For example, with regard to the age limit, one could say that the life of a 86-year-old is more complete than that of a 69-year-old. Another question is whether it should necessarily be done through a medical route through emergency workers in a more medical way. I'm telling you, my party hasn't figured that out yet. What about the fraction of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	It is indeed a very difficult dilemma how to handle this properly. How, for example, do you prevent the euthanasia law from being eroded and people who do not meet the criteria within the euthanasia law or even go that route, immediately but try to end their life completed by law? You don't want that. That is why we have chosen to include an age limit in the legislative proposal. It is open, however, because an age limit is always arbitrary, but we do so in a lot of laws, of course. Just people of a certain age, who already have a very large part of their lives behind them, are very well able to assess whether that life is going to offer them more. That is why we are looking at this. We also do this in order to ensure that the euthanasia law when it comes to a medical cause, including in the case of psychiatry, still remains the appropriate law to check whether people's demand for the cessation of life can also be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	For example, there are also people who say: I understand that my wish is being judged, but the decision, the act to do it and to say "give me such a pill and I want to do it myself" would actually be the ultimate self-determination. I am now reading the cabinet proposal in such a way that it is somewhat more limited. I'll ask the Cabinet about that, too. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists also agree that it is good to look at several options and not, for example, to tell us now how the law should look?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	We're looking at multiple options. You can also look at penalising suicide assistance in article 294 of the Criminal Code. Of course, there are a lot of possibilities. We, and I have the impression that this also applies to the cabinet, have strongly based us on the trial of law that was annexed to the citizens' initiative at the time. There were also death aid workers in this area. In my proposal I come very much on the medical route and I do not like that, because this is really not a medical matter. I think it is very important that we respect the care and safety when we say: you will be provided with a means. After all, now it's the doctor who has the key to the medicine cabinet. So you have to look at a lot of other laws to see how we can handle this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	D66 wants to make it possible to help with suicide in completed life and has certain people in mind, but if the legal possibility is created now, that means that this will really become an option for a very large group of people, for the vulnerable elderly in our society. If there is the legal possibility, any older person who is literally listed in the Schnabel Committee's report will see himself confronted with the question of whether he or she would like to make use of that possibility at that time or at a later date. How did D66 take that into account in its position on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	D66 is based on the thoughtfulness of such a decision by the people who have this wish. We also believe that it is necessary to check that there is no pressure, that there is no pressure to do so, that it is a sustainable desire and not an impulse and that it has been completely free to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	I understand all that, and I have heard Mrs Dijkstra say that, but yet every older person will be confronted with the question of whether he or she wants to make use of it, at that time or in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Yeah, well, old people are free to think about that. Even now that the legal possibility is not there, I think that older people are already thinking a lot about this, given all the reactions that this creates in society. It is the older people who give us enormous support for the proper management of this. That is exactly what I have just said: I think it is important for a lot of people that the possibility is there and that you can think about it. Right now, this has to be illegal. If you want to do this now and decide at some point by yourself that your life is ready and that you want to end it at an old age, there are so many things you might burden others with that people don't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	D66 wants to build in guarantees, but isn't that an illusion? The Schnabel Committee's report states quite literally that all older people are indeed faced with this question and that the legal possibility will lead to insurmountable concerns in terms of care, safety and possible abuse. Then all the alarm bells will ring, won't they? Then we have to tell each other that this is not the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	It is clear that this is viewed differently by D66. We are much less afraid that no care can be taken in this regard. On the contrary, I think that is quite possible. I think we are now seeing the same arguments as when we started talking about the euthanasia law: even then, there was the view that it was not possible to regulate and that it would be a slippery slope. And what do we see? The euthanasia legislation works very well. There is no reason at all to believe that we would not be able to handle this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. Can someone who experiences his or her life as completed call on the government and neighbors to get help with suicide? This political and social demand was ahead in 2014. That question is extremely complicated and not just about individuals, it affects society as a whole. That is why, under Mr Schnabel's leadership, a committee of wise men was set up to come up with an informed and sensible opinion. The committee did that, unanimously. It noted that a revision of the euthanasia law or the creation of new legal possibilities for suicide aid is not necessary or even undesirable. Unfortunately, the cabinet is now rejecting the opinion of the committee set up by itself. The Christian Union is uncomfortablely surprised by the cabinet response to this report. This concerns both the moment and its content. The committee took its task extremely seriously and delivered an opinion in February this year. The cabinet failed to respond to this before the summer. I understand. After all, it is a question of life and death, but why now this advice? Why is it that a cabinet position is being adopted which is so far-reaching and has so far-reaching consequences, and why is it happening just before the elections? The cabinet proposal has given rise to a lot of social unrest. While the Dutch Association for a Voluntary Life Ending (NVVE) already prepares for this and wants to train death aid workers, numerous doctors, ethicists and columnists make the alarm bells ring. Not only us, but also society has been overwhelmed by this sudden and far-reaching decision of the cabinet. It does absolutely no justice to the sensitivity of the subject and shows a great deal of carelessness. Why did the cabinet choose to set up a wide-ranging committee of wise men, while the cabinet then put aside its advice and set its own political course? What happened in this cabinet? If you let scholars think about completed life, shouldn't you take their advice seriously? The Christian Union is not in favour of the euthanasia law, but understands the opinion of the Schnabel Commission to maintain the current legal framework. We were looking forward to continuing the debate in this Chamber with her report in hand in a nuanced manner. The question is whether this is still possible. Let me zoom in a little bit on parts of the report. The committee notes that after completed life many individual stories are hidden. The words "completed life" often conceal a life with experiences of loss, of declining direction and loneliness. Researcher Els van Wijngaarden also points this out. People often don't want to die, but give to "I don't want this life." Especially for vulnerable people, it is the responsibility of the government to protect life. Protecting human lives is not compatible with facilitating the fulfillment of the desire for help in suicide. If the government does take this step, the committee warns, it could undermine the existing euthanasia law: why follow the complicated route where you have to prove suffering with a medical basis if there is another route? Moreover, the committee argues, a legal possibility will become an option. Older people will see themselves confronted with the question of whether they want help with suicide now or later. Older people can be consciously or unconsciously stimulated by their environment to make such an assessment. The committee also states the following. "From the point of view of the government and the duty of care imposed on the government with regard to the protection of the life and safety of persons, an extension of the possibilities for aid in the event of suicide would raise insurmountable concerns, including from the point of view of safety, security and the prevention of abuse, particularly in view of the need to protect vulnerable groups." Why is the cabinet ignoring this? The cabinet writes that two values must be weighed: mercy and protection of life. Those are two values of the Christian tradition that are dear to us. According to the Cabinet, weighting of these values leads to the situation in which suicide aid is justified. However, my group cannot possibly see how this protects life and what is merciful about giving up vulnerable elderly people and putting their feelings of safety at risk. I've seen people suffer deeply from life. We can't solve that with a law. The cabinet's proposal cannot and cannot be the answer to this. It does no justice to the value of life and not to the complexity of problems faced by people. The Christian Union asks the cabinet to revise its position: take back the cabinet response and get started with the opinions of the Schnabel Commission. Then we'll talk again. Is the cabinet prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	I see that Mrs Voortman wishes to interrupt, but I suggest that Mrs Dik-Faber finishes her contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	The Christian Union believes that life is given by God and that life is valuable and protective, also a life of high age. It is sad to see that many elderly people feel that their lives have become meaningless. That's not a spontaneous idea. It is a thought that arises in a society that hardly appreciates old age anymore, which sees care for the elderly as a cost and in which there is less and less time to really see each other. The Christian Union calls on the Cabinet to take into account the recommendation of the Schnabel Commission on the prevention of completed life. She specifically mentions the prevention of loneliness, the enhancement of self-reliance and a revaluation of old age. No more than half an A4' is spent on this in the cabinet letter. There's gotta be another way. I realize that we cannot prevent all the situations in which people experience their lives as completed. At the same time, it is poignant that it has come to our society that older people see themselves as superfluous and as a cost. The good thing is that we form society together and can do something about it. Politics has a responsibility in this too. Finally. We differ on the possibilities of helping suicide, but hopefully we can agree on our commitment to a society in which older people feel seen and appreciated, and to a society in which they receive loving care and attention and in which they can participate as they wish. That's the society we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	Of course, if people say that they want to die because they think that care is not good, this cannot be done at all; indeed, more investment should be made in care for the elderly and more must be done to combat loneliness. But Mrs Dik-Faber quite rightly points out that there are also situations in which people really suffer from life and that these situations cannot be prevented. I would very much like to hear from the Christian Union what we should do for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	I hope that GroenLinks, together with the Christian Union, will reflect on ways to change our society and our political policies in such a way that people will not experience their lives as completed. Indeed, there is a group that suffers greatly from life. The government also has a duty of care for them, but the route proposed by the cabinet is not my route. I don't want to give up on people. If we were to make suicide possible in a completed life, that would mean that any older person would feel that he or she should give an answer to the question whether he or she would like to make use of that possibility. We will then confront every older person with that question. A legal possibility will become an option. That affects the sense of safety of the elderly. That is exactly what the Schnabel Committee points out: the legislative proposal raises insurmountable concerns in terms of safety and the protection of the elderly. I see the problems, but I am committed to the Schnabel Committee's report and I agree with her advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	I think that there are also people who give the presence of such a possibility a rest. Those people will then know that there is such an option, which will ensure that they know that they should not choose it now. So I do not share that point. My question, however, was specifically about that group of people. Mrs Dik-Faber just said that this cannot be avoided for them, with any investment in care or loneliness. What does the Christian Union do for that group? I'd love to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'm so sorry the government can't solve all the suffering. We can't do that. I will take up the Schnabel Committee's report again, although I do not think I need to quote it again. I have already said it in my response to the interruption of D66 and just now again: these insurmountable objections. There may be people who aren't being helped by the government. But this subject must remain uncomfortable. This is just an uncomfortable issue of life and death. We can't solve everything. I think we should just be honest and acknowledge that, if we want to solve one thing, we are creating another, much bigger problem. The Schnabel Committee points that out. I don't want to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	I would like to thank Mrs Dik-Faber for her specific response. It indicates that we cannot solve it for that particular group, which I believe is the subject of this proposal. I think we can do that, namely by ensuring this carefully in a legislative proposal. What exactly should that look like needs to be discussed even further in the legal process. I think that is precisely where the differences between our groups lie: do you want to help that last small group or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	GroenLinks now also indicates that it wants to take a good look at the framework conditions: this must be given a good embedding in our society, it must not be abused and so on. However, we now have a report from a committee of wise men, from a committee that has looked very carefully at it. That committee says that this is not real, that this will lead to insurmountable objections. So it is not real to want to build in these conditions. My conclusion is that we cannot help everyone and that, if we want to do so, we will have a great social problem on our hands. We don't want to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	I thought: let me give Mrs Dik-Faber the opportunity to finish her story. She started out very sharp and I thought the nuance might come later, but it didn't come. I shall go back to the beginning of Mrs Dik-Faber's speech. She used great words towards the cabinet and said that the cabinet is careless. Let me outline the situation. The cabinet has set up a committee, the Schnabel Committee. That committee took about two years to deliver an opinion. It's a thick and impressive advice. The cabinet then took ample time, namely seven months, to seek and weigh the advice. It's written a very nuanced letter from 11 pages. It has adjusted and weighed and chosen a certain starting point. I understand that the Christian Union will never want to share that point of view, no matter what happens, because it feels differently in principle, but it is a nuanced letter. And then Mrs Dik-Faber says it's careless. Can she explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	Yes. I find the timing extremely unfortunate. That was exactly what Mr Rutte said in the media this morning. I would have preferred social debates on this and the cabinet to have listened. I would like to point out all the newspaper reports that show that opponents and opponents are taking advantage of each other. Society has really been overwhelmed by this attitude of the cabinet, a position that has turned 180 degrees in relation to the opinion of the Schnabel Committee. Why all of a sudden? How did that happen? That is completely unclear. Society feels ambushed; we also feel ambushed. I wanted to make that clear in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	It's just what part of society you're looking at. In my view, there is unimaginable support for the proposal made by the cabinet. I found that remarkable: there is extremely much support. However, I do think that we should also be aware of all the objections that exist. I find that carefully, instead of telling you unilaterally from your own paradigm how the world works. What about the care from that point of view? How careful is it to say here that we live in a society that hardly appreciates old age, in which the elderly feel redundant and feel cost-effective? How careful is that? What truth is that? It's a truth I certainly don't recognize. I'm sure there are people who feel this, but that's not our society, is it? "A society that hardly appreciates old age" I find rather big words. I think it's very careless, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	They're big words, too. I am very shocked that those words are in the Schnabel Committee's report. We have read a summary of the report from Els van Wijngaarden at www.medischcontact.nl. It says how older people look at themselves, how lonely and redundant they feel and how much they feel, partly because of the political debates in the Chamber, that they are a cost. That scared the hell out of me. I think that the task for us, both for the Chamber and for society, is to figure out how to prevent this. I am sure it will not apply to all the elderly, but the Schnabel Committee recommends that we proceed with a revaluation of old age and to avoid loneliness is really an apple that we cannot leave behind. Els van Wijngaarden does the same thing. I want to put that here. I believe that we need to make much more effort in this regard, and I hope that the VVD will support the Christian Union in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have indicated in my contribution how important I think it is that everyone matters, regardless of their age. Older people matter in this country. The VVD is the last party to write off groups of people. That's out of the question. That's why I was really touched by the word "improperly." I think it's careless that it's being rubbed at me. The VVD also thinks it is extremely important that we help people where we can. If there are opportunities to solve social problems, which removes the desire to die, we must make use of them. If there's a medical cause, we need to see if it can be removed. When people at the end conclude that they cannot be helped nor need to be helped and that they want to die, how merciful is it, then, the term "merciful" also used Mrs. Dik-Faber to stand by and say: sorry, am I not helping?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	Once again, when it comes to the position of the elderly in our society, I am not blaming Mr Rutte. I simply quote from the Schnabel Committee's report and from the summary of Els van Wijngaarden's research, which states their position in our society. Let's look at what we can do to prevent older people from feeling redundant and lonely. This is a task for all of us, for all political parties and for society. I shall answer Mr Rutte's other question. I've already told Mrs. Voortman. These are questions of life and death. They're already complicated. I acknowledge that we cannot solve everything. If we move on to this, if we open the way of aid to suicide in completed life with the group of people that we cannot reach through policy, then that will mean something to our society. This raises insurmountable security concerns. I also mention the risk of abuse. I quote again from the Schnabel Committee's report. These are matters that concern me very much. For us, this is really an impassable path and we know that it is supported by the broad opinion of the Committee of Wise Men that has worked on the proposal of the VVD Group. I think I said what I wanted to say. I can't add much more to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	I will go on about the point that society would have been attacked by the cabinet response. If the Christian Union feels mugged, this does not mean that society feels mugged. If you put your ear to the people about who it's about, I don't know other than that it's a very topical discussion. That discussion never really went away. The Dutch Association for a Voluntary Life End has never had as many members as at present. That's not for nothing. That's because it's a very deep desire of many people to direct themselves on how they end their lives. I would like to go back to the reasoning of the Christian Union about the group of people whose Christian Union says that we cannot solve everything and that there is not an answer to everything. Then what does the Christian Union do for those people who suffer from life, who suffer every day and have incredible trouble getting through their day, who no longer want help and are alone for years, despite the fact that friends, family and acquaintances come every day? What does the Christian Union do? Does she look away, does she notice that this is part of life and looks a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	I note that a number of political parties are pressing for legislation on suffering. And I just can't. It just doesn't work to remove suffering from legislation. Once again, I repeat, I see the group that suffers from life. I've seen up close how people can suffer from life and beg their children to be helped in their dying wish. But if the government takes that step, the government that is called upon to protect human lives, if the government says it allows aid in suicide, it means something to our society. This means that suicide aid becomes an option, that all older people face this demand. That means their sense of security can be compromised. There's no way to rule out abuse. There may be unspoken pressure from society to take that step. These are not my words, but the words of the Schnabel Committee. That's what I want to tell the Labour Party. That is why we do not want to take this step. We may be able to help that small group, but it means incredibly much to our society. We do not want to risk that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	Two things. Of course, it is impossible to lay down suffering in a law, but that is not the point at all. The point is that those who want to keep their own autonomy and direction are not in any case imposed all kinds of obstacles that they must continue to suffer while they themselves have lost the value of life. But the remark that something is happening in society and that everyone will have to ask themselves the question later, isn't it a kind of denial of the current situation that every older person is currently working on the finiteness of life? Every older person wonders what the end will be for him or her. It is precisely the fact that there is not the possibility of doing it in his or her own way at a time when he or she is ready for it that causes a great deal of unrest and uncertainty for an incredibly large group of people. I think that the Christian Union is getting over the question of this group of people. It confines itself to a group of which Mrs Dik-Faber then looks away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	It is striking that a social party such as the Labour Party attaches such importance to the autonomy of people, based on the absolute autonomy of the elderly, whereas that is an illusion. I think our parties might feel the same way about this. That is why I find the conclusion of the Labour Party so striking. I believe absolute autonomy is an illusion. There is only such a thing as relational autonomy. The choice of a person is always made in a particular context, in a social context and in the context of family members and friends. If the government makes an individual's choice possible, that means something for the whole of society. That is why, with the Schnabel Committee's report in hand, I do not want to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	Of course autonomy is always relative autonomy, but people, given their autonomy and self-determination but also their environment, will always manage and weigh their situation and their circumstances. There's a group of people in our society that you really wouldn't want to overlook anymore. Those people view their surroundings and wigs and weigh what life brings them daily, yet they decide or find that life has no value to them in that way. At the moment, we are preventing that group of people from directing their own lives in their own way. I note with pain in my heart that the Christian Union is looking the other way for this group of people and saying: we cannot influence everything in life. She can't either, but she can make sure that people like them make their own choices, at least not being hindered by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	I feel pain in my heart too, but I don't look away from those people. I don't obstruct people at all, but making it legally possible for people to receive help from the government in suicide has consequences for the whole of society. These consequences are insurmountable and will face serious objections. My group does not want to go down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. The question of a dignified end of life rightly concerns many people who have reached a difficult stage, the final stage of their lives. The CDA sees this issue as well. We fully understand people who are in this difficult situation and who are faced with these essential questions. It's difficult, but at the same time it's very valuable to start the conversation about the final phase of life with your neighbors. In order to be able to conduct the political debate carefully, two years ago, a broad multidisciplinary committee was chosen to appoint people with the necessary standing to advise on a number of aspects relating to the question of suicide aid to people who consider their lives to be complete. The Schnabel Committee has succeeded in delivering a very comprehensive, well-founded and broad-based opinion. Compliments to this Committee of Wise Men are therefore certainly in order here. The Committee strongly supports the fact that the current legislation on euthanasia already makes much more possible than many people think. Just in the event of a build-up of age problems, people can end their lives by doctors. In its conclusion, the Committee of Wise Men states that it sees no need for the government to facilitate assistance in the suicide of healthy elderly people by non-doctors. For the CDA, therefore, the main question is what kind of society we want to be with each other and the standard role that the government plays in this. The debate should therefore not be about extending legislation, but about the valuable contribution that older people make to society and about the fact that older people still matter and deserve a valuable place in society. The Schnabel Committee also points out several major risks if the government is going to facilitate help with suicide by non-doctors. The committee says that regulating suicide aid has implications for society as a whole. For example, the Committee writes that an undesirable effect may be to further strengthen the already negative image of older people. I quote: 'In the light of the debate on the ageing of society, the cost of pensions and the greater recourse that should be made to family care, it is not imaginary that old people, when they become dependent on care, or fear that they will become, decide to end their lives, for example not to burden their children.' The Schnabel Committee also points out that the government must protect life and therefore make an effort to prevent people from robbing themselves, let alone others, of their lives. Healthy elderly people would feel consciously or unconsciously encouraged by their environment to make a trade-off, as the Schnabel Committee also says. The danger and fear of abuse play an important role in this. As a result, older people may no longer feel sufficiently safe. The CDA supports the Schabel Committee's line. The legislation we now have on euthanasia is careful and balanced. The cabinet's proposal throws that care and balance overboard. That leaves me with a question to put to that cabinet. Why did the cabinet decide to set up a wide-ranging committee of wise men, and then to move them away fairly easily, whereas that committee has written a very comprehensive, well-founded and sound opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	It's actually quite a nice, balanced and nuanced contribution of the CDA. But today I read in the Dutch newspaper of the group chairman of the CDA: "The debate on Completed Life is characterized by polarisation. The cabinet caused this by putting aside the opinion of the Schnabel Committee." I have just said that I think the cabinet has come up with a very well-balanced response, which is characterized, after a long thought, by 'yes, unless'. There are ifs and buts and the framework conditions need to be further developed in legislation. The CDA, on the other hand, says today a little more nuanced, but rather in the press: "No, there's no talking about it and it shouldn't be on the table in cabinet negotiations; no, no, no." Who's polarizing now? The one who says, "No, you can't even talk about it," or the one who says very nuancedly, "yes, if and then we go down the road to see if we can shape it in all kinds of careful conditions"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	I do not recognize the picture Mr Rutte sketches, namely that all this should not be discussed further and that it should not be put on the table or anything else. In my view, it is important that we have a careful debate together on an issue that is wide-ranging in society. It is true that the cabinet has really attacked us by taking such a big step in such a short period of time, when we have had this kind of debate carefully with each other for many years. You're right, you don't want that kind of polarization. That is what my group chairman was referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	Then may I interpret it as follows? Where the cabinet, as well as the VVD, says "yes, if, with a lot of framework conditions and quilting and weighing, we have a long way to go with each other and following legislation," the CDA says "no," but there is still one. So thinking doesn't stop and when legislation comes to the Chamber, the CDA also wants to think with us about whether the "no, unless" can turn into a "yes," where our "yes" can of course turn into a "no" if we can't fill it out because we can't fill in the cross-compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, I can't agree to that. That's what I've just argued. According to the CDA, the Schnabel Committee has really given very careful advice. The committee has said that there is sufficient room for manoeuvre within the current legislation. The CDA agrees with that opinion of the Schnabel Committee. We are against the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's a lot of words to get back to the starting point after all, namely: no, and we're not talking about it anymore. Well, that's a little disappointing, isn't it? I also think it is for a party that is somewhat nuanced in life for the rest of the world, perhaps a bit too short. But I'll leave that on Mrs. Bruins Slot's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Rutte really does not do justice at the moment to the degree of balance and the breadth of the opinion of the Schnabel Committee. That committee has examined this very carefully over the past two years, and has also argued that the current euthanasia law leaves sufficient room for manoeuvre. At the same time, the Committee says that we should have a social debate together on the value and contributions of older people in society. That's what the CDA agrees with. On the basis of the opinion of the Schnabel Committee, we believe that we should continue the social debate. However, that is not the step the cabinet is taking now, in which new legislation is advocated. The Schnabel Committee has made this very explicit: the current law is satisfactory and no new legislation is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u64	The CDA agrees with those conclusions of the Schnabel Committee. It is also a question of whether you are bound by the advice if you ask a committee of wise men to think about a subject. Let me not discuss this with Mrs Bruins Slot at the moment. When the report came out, it turned out to be nothing for a certain group of people. I am referring to the people about whom we had a bit of the idea that the Schnabel Committee would seek a solution for them. I am referring to those who certainly do not feel badly cared for, worthless or whatever, but who find that they have reached an age where life has nothing else to offer them and that they do not want to wait and see. They have had a very valuable and rich life. For those people, the report didn't offer anything. That was also the disappointment we expressed at D66 at the time. The VVD and the Labour Party have joined. There is now talk of a cabinet robbery with this proposal. So I have to be honest with you, I don't quite understand that. I will ask Mrs Bruins Slot what the solution is for these people. What does the CDA offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u65	What Mrs Dijkstra is describing has been precisely the task of the Schnabel Committee. That was exactly the commission's mission. The Schnabel Committee has studied this for a very long time, for two years, has talked to people and has been talking to the whole field. The committee's conclusion was that the current legislation on the review of termination of life, the euthanasia law meets the problems that people have. It is also recommended that we continue to discuss how we deal with older people in society. In this analysis, in answer to the question that Mrs Dijkstra is now asking me, the CDA agrees with that answer from the Schnabel Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u66	There is a growing group of people for whom this is a problem. I expect that group to grow, because we're getting older. There is a generation, mine, coming from people who have made their own decisions for a lifetime and have directed themselves, and are very used to doing so. What Mrs Bruins Slot is saying now means that she accepts this. She says: sorry for those people, but they have to choose their own solutions. These solutions may have a much greater impact on society. Because sometimes someone is looking for solutions, where I always find it very annoying to mention examples, other people are affected by the way life ends. I think that's much worse for society than giving space to people who think their lives are complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u67	I share with Mrs Dijkstra that it is extremely important to talk to each other in society, but also here in the Chamber, about a worthy end to life, about how people want to shape the final phase of their lives. We set up the Schnabel Committee two years ago. That was a fine decision of the cabinet. That committee has been asked precisely for that group of people to check whether the current legislation also satisfies that group of people. On the basis of two years of study, the Schnabel Committee has come to the conclusion that this is the case. That's what the CDA agrees with. I can see D66's looking at that differently. But that's how it's experienced by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mrs. Dijkstra, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u69	I note that the CDA, like the Schnabel Committee, forgets that people without complaints with a medical basis cannot go to the euthanasia law. That law is very good, but it can't be in there. If you want to make anything possible out there, the CDA won't go along with it, because those people have to figure it out for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u70	The Schnabel Committee indeed supports the statement that the current Test Life Abatement Act meets and that it is also important to discuss the value of the contribution of older people to society. It also states that further steps are needed in the area of the euthanasia law as regards the provision of information and knowledge about doctors. This requires further work to ensure that what we do within the current euthanasia law is done carefully. The CDA disagrees with D66 when it comes to a new law. We are not arguing in favour of this, also because the Schnabel Committee says very emphatically that this is not necessary and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u71	Existential loneliness is the loneliness that people can experience when they have lived everything and have had a beautiful, rich life, but now feel that it has been enough. Mrs Bruins Slot continues to say that the current legislation complies with this. But if a doctor has to check with the current euthanasia laws in his hand, he also looks at the medical conditions. From that vision, a doctor looks. Research by the NVVE also shows that a large part of the people who feel existential loneliness do not even report to the general practitioner. How does Mrs Bruins Slot judge this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u72	This very much affects the position of the elderly in society. I used a quote from the Schnabel Committee's report, a quote that struck me, saying that older people sometimes feel marginalized in society, because they feel that they don't matter anymore. In my opinion, we need to make sure that we make older people feel valuable and participate in society. We really need them. That is an important debate that we really need to have better alongside this debate. We can't just let the elderly stand aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u73	When it comes to the appreciation of the elderly, the Schnabel Committee's report was more nuanced. Indeed, it has been argued that there are people who feel that older people are not appreciated. At the same time, however, it was argued by several experts, if it is correct, that page 155 is correct, but I am not sure about that. However, my question was about existential loneliness of people who have had a rich life. In my opinion, this term does not even appear in the Schnabel Committee's report. What does the CDA do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u74	The background to the establishment of the Schnabel Committee was precisely to look at this problem. I have already mentioned it several times: the conclusion of the Schnabel Committee's report was that the current legislation is satisfactory, albeit a number of things still need to be improved. That's what the CDA thinks is a good way to continue the conversation about a worthy end of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u75	The Schnabel Committee has indeed said that there is more room in the current euthanasia law so that it could be better used. But the committee has also said something else: there is a group of people with a death wish that is now outside the euthanasia law, a group so small that it would not have to change the euthanasia law. On that point, I would like to ask Mrs Bruins Slot a question. The KNMG has stated in its view on the death guidance that in the report "It's actually a manual "It's written that every year 2,500 people with a death wish who are not eligible for euthanasia choose to die consciously, so stop eating and drinking. How does Mrs Bruis Slot feel about this when she reads this? Is she gonna look away for that? Does she think that society or society should solve this itself? Does it deny the situation of those people who are so desperate that they prefer this death over staying alive and suffering from life?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u76	It is good to hear that Mrs Wolbert has looked so carefully at the opinion. The opinion highlights the various aspects. If people are in their final stages of life and are about to die, then there are several possibilities that can be fulfilled. There is palliative care, with palliative sedation. Some people choose not to eat and drink anymore. Others call on a doctor for euthanasia. Those are considerations that people make themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u77	Now a number of possibilities are mentioned which are actually not real. If there is no medical necessity and people are not in a palliative phase, then there is also no palliative care or palliative sedation possible. I am simply asking Mrs Bruins Slot: how do you feel that every year 2,500 people who cannot be helped within the euthanasia law, which you say offers all the space, choose to die in this way? Then you cannot look away and say: the euthanasia law also offers these people with such a desperate desire to die, enough space? That's just not true, is it? Then you'll look away, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u78	In my view, the Schnabel Committee's report shows that the various issues underneath have been looked very closely. On that basis, the CDA also bases its position. I therefore find it inadequate, also to the Schnabel Committee, to blame the Schnabel Committee for doing so indirectly to Mrs Wolbert, and all those medical ethicists and lawyers who have really thought about this from different points of view, for looking away. I really do not think that this is enough for the many experts who have exchanged views on this issue with many parties in the field for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u79	Of course, I am not the only one who finds that the Schnabel Committee on this group of people, who fall outside the euthanasia law because there is no medical basis, concludes too easily and too lightly that it is only a few people and that therefore the euthanasia law should not be amended. That was one of the first remarks of many people, especially those who had hoped that the Schnabel Committee would respond to these people. But that's not even my concern. I am concerned that because of the fact that the KNMG itself finds that it is about such a large group of people, you must have an answer from the CDA. There are, I say to Mrs Bruins Slot, also in her constituency, people who belong to that group of 2,500 people who decide to stop eating and drinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u80	It is incredibly valuable to have the social debate about a worthy end to life together. However, the Committee points out very clearly that there is still insufficient knowledge in doctors and patients of the possibilities of the Test Life Abort Act, of the euthanasia law. It is really important for us to increase our knowledge so that we can proceed in a careful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u81	Of course I agree, but this figure comes from doctors, it comes from the advice of the KNMG itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u82	You made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u83	I wanted to make that correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u84	That is what has been done here. Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. The proposal to create a new legal framework in which people will be helped in their self-chosen deaths leads to a lot of discussion. As many as I have struggled with this complex and profound issue. The right to self-determination is a great asset, especially when an individual has a death wish. For my party, this is very heavy. But there is also the realization that moving out of life is not a matter of course. Even if you're not religious, putting an end to your life or helping people is something unnatural. We're trying to avoid suicides together. Therefore, a new standard for suicide aid is a major step. What does it all do? What does it mean for our society if we push this standard? The report of the Committee of Wise Men is a thorough report and a search for the right to help with suicide in a completed life. The conclusion is that it is wise not to extend the law at this time. The Committee sees more benefits than benefits in the case of enlargement of the law. There are legal complications, but also social consequences. The group with a desire to help with suicide which does not fall within the scope of the euthanasia law is small and the impact on the pressure on the entire group of older people can be great. What did the ministers decide not to go along with the Committee of Wise Men? Which organisations have been consulted in recent months? I am struggling on many fronts with the government's proposal, firstly because there is no age limit in the letter of 12 October, while the citizens' initiative and the examination of the Committee of Wise Men are using it: it is about the death wish of the elderly. Is the new law going to apply to a 36-year-old woman, for example, who is dragging herself through life? She's not sick, she's not mentally ill, but she finds life hard. She can make it known deliberately and without pressure from the outside that she wants death aid. Does she like it? I notice that a question like that sticks down my throat: can she die? Death as an option clicks strangely for me, given the lust for life that I see around me and the need for survival that I also see in older people of old age. Yeah, the body's getting worse, and so is life. The world is changing fast and it's all not equally understandable anymore, but life is often worth living. For older people who no longer feel that way, ministers are now going to train a dying aid provider. It checks whether the judgment that life is no longer worth living can end up in the irreversible. However, if people with this existential struggle want to talk about this struggle without having the direct option of death on the table, there is no room for that. That assistance shall not be reimbursed. Then the signal is: this is a private matter and it does not belong in health care. People aren't sick. That hurts me. It hurts me that we are developing into a society where people who struggle with life get a death aid provider, but not a life aid provider. We're not gonna pay for that kind of help. What are the Ministers' views on this? We can see that the euthanasia law is in full development. The number of euthanasia requests accepted is increasing. We can also note that one and more careful action is being taken. Doctors formulate answers to the question of how to deal with dementia and psychiatry. It also looks at the element of the accumulation of age complaints when determining whether a euthanasia request can be met. It's getting clearer and clearer. The development of this practice shows that the euthanasia law leaves much room for mercy and the right to self-determination. It seems to us wise to allow this development to continue and not be put at risk by the introduction of a parallel law which will have a major impact on careful euthanasia practice. Do the Ministers have any idea how the two laws should work in conjunction? Doesn't one law make the other redundant? Should people with a death wish first report to a doctor who tests whether euthanasia is possible? If so, can these people only report to the death aid counselor after that? It is clear that determining a death wish for completed life is not a sinner. People need to be able to decide autonomously. But to what extent does that death wish stand on its own and how consistent is it? Man is a relational being that relates to his environment. What are the factors involved? Is the desire to die absolute and permanent? Is it irreversible, or can it change as soon as something changes in life? And how do we determine that there really hasn't been any outside pressure? Is that to be judged? It is striking that Els van Wijngaarden in her PhD research into people who consider their lives to be complete comes to the same conclusion as the Committee of Wise Men who have looked more at the legal side. It notes that suffering from life certainly exists, but that this is accompanied by marginalization of existence: these people have a deep sense of superfluousness, because reciprocity with society has fallen away. And the fear of dependence is great. Els van Wijngaarden finds that expressing the desire to die is not a taboo but that speaking about why you come to that wish is a taboo. Both the Committee of Wise Men and Els van Wijngaarden claim that this is a small group of people with a death wish that does not fall within the scope of the euthanasia law. Not studied is the impact on the whole group to enable help with death as a result of struggle with life. It is predicted that this pressure can increase for the whole group. Would it not be wise to first investigate why people are suffering from life and what other things are possible than providing the irreversible solution? Are the Ministers prepared to do this research and await the further development of the euthanasia law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report of the Schnabel Committee and the cabinet response. The cabinet has taken the time to come forward with a response. That is right, because the debate on death aid for elderly people who consider their lives to be complete deserves serious attention in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. In February this year, the Schnabel Committee concluded that nothing needs to be changed in the current euthanasia legislation. What this cabinet is proposing is not in line with that advice. It is true that there are elderly people with a legitimate desire to die without the necessary presence of urgent medical grounds. They would be people who were not helped by the current legislation. Our group agrees with that. We're getting older. Today's medical and technological progress is creating an increasingly large group of people who are going to be very old. This is nice for some people, but others experience it as an unbearable burden. They can't make life the way they want it to be. They suffer from life because of a complete lack of self-determination or because of the feeling that they are simply done with life and that they are only waiting for death every day. One example is Mr Pieter Maarten Jiskoot. He is 95 years old and physically okay but due to an eye disorder he is no longer able to read. And that was something he loved most. Another example is Els van Duin, born in 1924. She finds the surrender of her independence the worst of all. For these people, help from death counselors is the only way to maintain one's own direction over life. Sometimes this means that there will be a self-chosen end and sometimes the thought of that possibility is enough to live on. This debate is about self-determination to live and self-determination to die. Whether you're old or young, whether you have a disability or not, every human being can be there. GroenLinks believes that every person should be able to choose whether he or she no longer wants to be there. You can't be forced to live on. GroenLinks believes that older people who consider their lives to be complete have a legitimate desire. The direction of the cabinet proposal seems well thought out. The procedure must be careful and transparent. By this, the cabinet means the establishment of death aid workers with the corresponding training and legal review by regional review committees. The cabinet also wants to set an age limit. One might wonder whether a proposal based on self-determination with such limits is not too close in advance. Take such an age limit. On the one hand, it is very logical to say that it really has to be older people who consider their lives to be complete. But is the life of a 69-year-old by definition more complete than that of a 60-year-old? You may also wonder if the route of a completed life must necessarily be a route with medically trained aid workers. Is someone without medical education by definition unable to provide good guidance when it comes to life and death? There are also voices in favour of an end-of-life pill such as that available in Oregon. That would, of course, be the ultimate self-determination. GroenLinks also asks these questions and has not yet decided what the answer to them should be. We're open in this. Does that also apply to the rulers? Is there room for exploring various possibilities on which this could be secured in the law? Or is it already: we have now sent a cabinet response in which we have indicated what the conditions are; this should be it and otherwise not? GroenLinks is also curious about the further planning. How does the cabinet see it? At what time does the Minister expect to be able to take what steps? As I said earlier, we are getting older and although loneliness can affect everyone, the number of lonely elderly is unfortunately very high. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, loneliness due to lack of care or attention should never be a decisive factor in the choice of a completed life. Such loneliness is an issue for which we as a society can and must offer a solution. There can be investment in more hands on the bed. Customers and their relatives can be heard more often and better when assessing nursing homes. It can be ensured that caregivers are under a much less high workload, so that they have time to have a real conversation and have a cup of coffee with our elders. We think it is important to think carefully about the organization of care, including these kinds of issues, now and in the future, but we also like to have a worthy debate on medical-ethical issues. GroenLinks sees the establishment of care for the elderly and the right to self-determination over the end of life as two totally separate things that we both need to treat in a secure and loving manner. GroenLinks welcomes the recognition of the concept of "life completed" by the cabinet and the more prominent role that self-determination takes. When it comes to our lives, our most valuable assets, it does not fit the government to impose restrictions on the choices we can make about them ourselves. GroenLinks therefore sees this cabinet response as an important step towards self-determination. For the debate on the citizens' initiative of Uit Vrije Wil and beyond, there has been a wide-ranging debate on this subject. Now is the stage of political debate, which ultimately results in legislation. GroenLinks now and after the elections likes to think about the precise implementation of a law that regulates self-determination for people who consider their lives to be complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u87	Madam President. The government's intention to open the door to suicide aid for people suffering from life itself has touched the SGP, but also me personally. It is my firm conviction that the life of every human being as a creature of God is valuable and precious. Those who do not share this Christian point of departure can also raise serious objections to the way in which the cabinet now intends to take action. When life becomes difficult, we must not give up people, other people, to death, but to attention, love and good care; that is what I call mercy. In Greek antiquity it was Hippocrates who solemnly promised: "I will never prescribe a deadly remedy or give advice to anyone who, if followed, will lead to death." That was in pre-Christian times. We also find a lot of lost wisdom in the Schnabel Committee's report. The committee gives the urgent opinion in a clear and unanimous report: do not get started! I find it incomprehensible and very disappointing that the cabinet is taking up this sound advice without contradicting the fundamental criticism and putting forward such a far-reaching proposal in the wake of the cabinet. How did the cabinet actually come to this unexpected position? Which organizations have been spoken to? Where did the cabinet find support and support, except for the NVVE? The crucial argument of the cabinet is that the autonomous should be able to decide whether and when to leave life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u88	In my opinion, many more people are therefore not only in favour of the N.V.V.U.V.U.S.A. to ensure the possibility of completed life in the law. There's been a lot of polls on that. Mr Van der Staaij's idea that only one organisation is behind this is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u89	I asked the cabinet at which organizations support and support was found, except for the NVVE. This is known from the NVVE; it has been lobbying here for years with incredible intensity. The Schnabel Committee has also spoken to many other organisations, which have expressed their reservations. There are undoubtedly organisations with a more nuanced view, but my question to the Cabinet, which takes such advice aside, a board can of course always say that it has received an opinion but that it follows a different route with whom all has been spoken in order to support and motivate that opposing position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u90	Does Mr Van der Staaij then assume that the cabinet only speaks to organisations before it takes a decision? I can imagine that the cabinet is also looking at what is going on in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u91	Sure, but as Mrs Voortman knows, organizations are made up of people. This also applies to the NVVE; I spoke with Mr Jiskoot yesterday in a broadcast. There have undoubtedly been heard all kinds of people and I find it interesting to hear that too: which people has been spoken to? A crucial argument of the cabinet is that the autonomous person must be able to decide whether and when he wants to leave life, but who digs deeper finds that behind this so-called autonomously elected person is often a huge vulnerability. Then you come across loneliness, the feeling of not being a liability or a liability to your own children, or the fear of costing society too much. Has the Cabinet allowed those silent crying to work on its own? Why isn't much more focused on combating the underlying loneliness and on re-evaluation of old age? The former Minister Borst realised in 2009 that the introduction of the euthanasia law while the palliative care was not yet in order was "of course not the right order." My call is, don't make this mistake again. Even if, unlike the SGP, you do want to choose the route of the cabinet, you should not do so now, while there are still so many problems experienced in caring for our elderly in their well-being and now it is necessary to re-evaluate old age. First of all, there is a huge task. Anything that is permitted by law is likely to become normal at some point. I fear that our society may find it normal or even natural that people leave life when they grow old or have difficulty finding a good life. If that becomes normal, it means that people who do not choose to do so must actually defend themselves if they choose to live instead of dying. I think that is an incredibly important and far-reaching point. That is why I ask the Cabinet whether it sees this huge risk of being often not so open, but subtle, pressure on vulnerable people to choose to die and that, as it were, this is going to be in the culture. What is going to happen specifically to protect those vulnerable people and to support a meaningful interpretation of the night of life? The SGP would find it extremely undesirable if a sort of tolerated situation were to arise now because a legislative proposal has been announced and is in preparation. Can the cabinet therefore promise that the enforcement of existing laws and regulations will remain in full force? The sloping plane, it exists. We see it here, in the debate on euthanasia and suicide aid, alive before us. After the Netherlands became the first country in the world to legalize euthanasia, it is now the first country to allow self-chosen death in a completed life for people at a certain age. However, anyone who consistently continues on the path of autonomy knows that this age limit will turn out to be as soft as butter and that the call will soon be that young people too should be able to put an end to their lives, or people with disabilities. What hard boundaries does the cabinet see? I'm closing up. For the SGP, this debate is not a debate like so many others. This is about life and death. An important exchange is in danger of being converted. "Human life possesses value within itself, regardless of the purpose, usefulness or capacity of that life," the Schnabel Committee writes. That is what our legislation has been based on for a long time, for centuries, with or without Christian roots. That was a broad shared value. That value is at stake. The most fundamental task of the government is to protect the lives of citizens and to offer special protection to those who are vulnerable. That is what is at stake now, and that is why I am making an urgent appeal to the cabinet: take this proposal back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Van der Staaij just indicated that he feared that inclined plane. In the U.S. state of Oregon, people can take a cure home if they want to choose a worthy death. It doesn't show that people feel forced. In fact, a lot of people say: I have this medicine, but I don't have to use it now. What practical example is Mr Van der Staaij basing himself on the fact that this leads to a slippery slope and that people feel compelled to choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u93	Many of the situations mentioned in other countries are linked to all kinds of medical reasons. There is a lot of confusing and different information about that. I know one thing. I had a discussion with someone from the NVVE myself. He said: if as an older person I think I'm a cost to society and if I think I'm a burden to the family, I think I should have the right to put an end to it. I've been so impressed by that. I find it incredibly confrontative that such a thought can be made. So what is the response of our society to that? Do we accept that and say: indeed, if people think so, should we respect it? Or here's what we're gonna say. You're not a burden, are you? Surely you can expect and count on society to support you? A cost for society? Your life is worth it. If we let that go, if we agree, under certain circumstances, that one's life is no longer meaningful and no longer worthwhile, then I think that is a very moving reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u94	My question was specifically about the experiences in Oregon. There, people have been able to choose a worthy death for 20 years. Mr Van der Staaij does not go into that. I'm sorry to hear that. I invite him again to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u95	I've already said that I've read several things about what's going on in Oregon. It's often very difficult to compare this one-on-one. I have read what has been discussed in the Schnabel Committee's report and over time I have talked to a great many people in our society about this, including those who say they want to have the right to put an end to it. Each time, like Mrs Van Wijngaarden who writes this in her report, I was struck by the ambivalence that lies underneath: the feeling of loneliness, the feeling of "no longer matter" and the difficulty of dependence. The story of the people I have spoken to is a different story than the story of the rational self-conscious people who autonomously say "it has now been beautiful and good."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u96	It is therefore Mr Van der Staaij's expectation that this will lead to a slippery slope. We can at least agree that this does not depend on concrete evidence. In fact, there is evidence that this is not the case, such as the situation in Oregon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u97	I told you, I think Oregon is too easy an example. It's too easy to say it's all cake and egg there. I do not see that in the Schnabel Committee's report either. In my view, this sloping plane is already very clearly on the agenda. This is not a fear of the future. At that time the question was already raised whether people who are terminally ill should not be able to take one step, so that euthanasia should be made possible for them. At that time, there was already concern that this would lead to an extension to other categories. That's what you're seeing now. Then where does the protection offered by the government end up by, as it were, standing on the side of life and saying: we do not want to accept that people are going to ask for their end, but rather to oppose it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u98	The last words of Mr Van der Staaij were a nice little bridge to the question I would like to ask him about the protection of life. Mr Van der Staaij quite rightly pointed out that life itself, as a unique value, is worthy of protection. We also read this in the Schnabel Committee's report. Perhaps it does not feel that way for Mr Van der Staaij, but I fully share that with him: life is intrinsically protective. In the letter from the cabinet I read something that appeals to me very much, namely that if someone concludes for themselves that life for him or her, for whatever reason, has no value anymore, something really changes about the value that you might attach to that person's life. Does Mr Van der Staaij recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u99	When someone feels that he no longer has any value, that often also says something about relationships with others. It is also others who can give him that sense of value. We're not done saying that all human life is valuable. It's cheap if you don't live up to that with deeds. That means you have to take people seriously, you have to listen to people and stand next to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u100	Let's talk about these actions. I think that Mr Van der Staaij also finds the VVD far more on his side on that point than he would initially think. If for someone who says that his life is complete and that it doesn't have to go on, by means of interventions, extra attention and organizing things, that value returns to him, we certainly have to do so. But we are also dealing with people who are very old, who have seen all the people with whom they have given their lives, so former colleagues, friends, family members, die and who are left alone. Suppose that there is certainly time and attention for them and that they certainly still have activities, but that they no longer care about them. For them all this then has no value, because the people they found valuable have all fallen away. We all know these examples. If these people ask for help to end life, what is Mr Van der Staaij's merciful response to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u101	The merciful answer is that we want to be near to those people, that we do not want to lose you or you, because you or you are of value to us. But the other way around, it also applies in such a situation of loss experience. Mr Jiskoot's example comes in all the media, so I can mention his case here openly. In recent years, this was also done by the NVVE. Mr. Jiskoot said he wanted to swallow that pill in 2010 when his wife and daughter died. That is such a concrete loss experience, which is also very intuitive. We also read in all reports how heavy loneliness and a grieving process can be for a very long time. But what's a death aid gonna say? That that person should wait a while first? What doesn't a death aid worker have in his house to judge all that? I'd almost say you should be God to judge that. Surely it is a superhuman task to determine who has the right to put an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u102	That it is not easy, I think I made it very clear. It's not easy. There is not just a law tomorrow with a few preconditions with which we have arranged things. It will be a long process of wiggling, roads and looking at preconditions. What if a person says for all kinds of reasons that he doesn't want to go any further? He's sure, he's thought it through very well, he's had all these loss experiences and he doesn't see any opportunities to put his life back together. Did I understand correctly that Mr Van der Staaij's answer is to stand with that person, put his arm around him or her and say: but I think you should go through, because I think you are valuable? Is that the only answer, if that person himself says: thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij, for being here; I appreciate your presence, but my life will not be given any new meaning, I really want to die?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u103	"I think you should keep going," I think it's a bit blunt. I wouldn't just say that to someone like that. First of all, I would like to listen very well and for a very long time to such a person. Experience has shown that, if listened to very long and well, it already means something to people and does something for them. I wonder what kind of society we've been in. We save neither costs nor effort to ensure that people can grow much older and live much longer, while at the same time we as a society say: what is the point of these high-age people with their lives? We have an assignment in that. That's a tricky task that a lot of people are struggling with. It's a serious problem. It is our mission to explore how we can make more sense of this as a society. The government can't do that alone, it's a mission for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Chairman. In front of us is a complex issue about the self-chosen end of life. I welcome the fact that ministers are choosing to make a separate law and not to amend the current euthanasia law. The current euthanasia law is mainly a care law; the proposal for completed life is not. In the current euthanasia legislation, there must be hopeless and unbearable suffering on the basis of a medical basis. The desire for euthanasia must be carefully defined if self-determination is to be reduced, for example as a result of dementia, because otherwise the possibility will be lost. In the case of completed life, there is insufficient medical suffering, but there is an active desire to die. Furthermore, we believe that the discrepancy that the Schnabel Committee notes between the letter of the law and the current euthanasia practice should not be overlooked by all the attention that has now been paid to the debate on the self-chosen end of life, partly because the same conclusion was already drawn in 2010. Ministers have picked up a social issue that lives in particular with the new generation of pensioners. It is mistakenly thought that it is only a small group of people, while a much larger group feels involved. This proposal is currently leading to a debate which is likely to get overheated here and there, and that is a pity. We understand the fervent desire for self-determination that many people have. For example, they no longer believe that God decides about life and death. A self-chosen end of life is then imaginable. The same applies to the opposite. Believers should not feel hunted if they do use medical care and nursing until the end of their lives. A much-heard, explicit desire of many people is that they certainly do not want to become dementia later on. There are also many who do not want to be nursed. With a self-chosen end of life, they want to get ahead of it. Moreover, it must not be forgotten that they can start to think differently once it is done. It is more about the peace they experience because a self-chosen end of life by the time it is done is legally possible. We also see people coming to the end of their lives, as a result of social considerations, for example, if partners want to die together after a long and happy life. The social aspect is, moreover, the most vulnerable aspect. My group still has a lot of concerns about this. What if we're not sure? What if social failure or social pressure strengthens or creates the desire for a self-chosen end of life? You can't do that. However, I would like to point out that it does not help a worthy debate about a self-chosen end of life if we bring in the failing nursing home care. Recording in a closed ward of a nursing home is by definition intense and disenchanting, even if we all set up new buildings, put star chefs in the kitchens and put eight loving nurses around each bed. In the light of this discussion, however, it is not appropriate to close the eyes completely to the deterioration of care for the elderly. The risks of social failure when it comes to the self-chosen end of life are mainly in the field of well-being. Loneliness can be a sustainable phenomenon. But in any case, it is reversible as well. It's not the end of life. There is the question of self-chosen end of life. That is why it is also a social issue. I once spoke to a 94-year-old man in a nursing home who jumped off his bench and shouted that he should have done it twenty years earlier. He got back on his feet. He had been lonely for 20 years and now he had all new friends. He just left a card and went to play billiards that afternoon. He could go on like this for another 20 years. I do not claim that the nursing home is the panacea against loneliness and many would be horrified by the idea alone, but for others it is. That's why they're, or were, so important to society. After all, we can't look into someone's head. One thing my group knows for sure: the elderly must never, ever, feel too much in our society and choose a voluntary end to life for that reason. Unstated doubts, the absence of desirable social contacts or feeling too much should never creep into them. Then a legitimate desire to create the legal frameworks for a self-chosen end of life for those who want to leave life in a dignified manner would at the same time mean a social bankruptcy. We as a group are therefore not yet ready to indicate whether we are in advance or against a new law. After all, the law is not yet there either. We want to think about it longer and talk to more people. We will actively contribute to the legislative process and later, once the law is in place, determine our final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to these ministers and to the cabinet. I am glad that this discussion is taking place. You can't handle a subject like this carefully enough. After all, this is an irreversible matter. First of all: 50PLUS is a programme of elections that we support, subject to conditions, the cessation of life on demand in the event of unbearable and hopeless suffering, even without a medical basis. Of course, this can only be done under very strict, as clearly defined conditions and due diligence criteria as possible. It is a tough requirement for 50PLUS that the assessment and guidance should only be carried out by a doctor. In our opinion, it is best for a doctor to assess all medical and psychosocial factors separately and in conjunction. This seems to be a difference from the government's approach, which does not, in fact, make this demand to the so-called 'death-aid worker'. Why this distinction with the euthanasia law? Can the rulers explain in detail why they seem to make this choice and are they prepared to accommodate 50PLUS? In addition, 50PLUS explicitly asks whether the law stipulates that the doctor to be deployed should never be his own doctor. This can be particularly important for residents of institutions. I'd like to hear a response to this. A direct link between the cabinet proposal and the policy on care for the elderly is not a choice. Of course, good care for the elderly contributes to a decent and happy life, and there is still a world to be won, I say out of full conviction, but there will always be people who want to decide for themselves that their lives are complete. We have to respect that. With these proposals, the government is really not going to encourage anyone to choose death. But let us also have respect for people who want to end their completed lives in a dignified manner. That is what this proposal meets. Of course, possible abuse should be fully taken into account in the further development of the legislative proposal. Maybe the Minister can tell us how she thinks she can rule out abuse. Perhaps the proposal of 50PLUS to always employ a doctor as a death aid provider can contribute to this. The fact that some people label this proposal as an incentive for older people to end life says more about how part of society thinks about older people than about the genuine intention of this cabinet. Let us not push the elderly into the corner of the defenseless. Let's not confirm the image that they're all vulnerable and immortal. Most elderly people are very capable of making the ultimate decision about their own lives and deaths. It is precisely that decision that we need to protect with clear legal frameworks. Let us be clear: no one can determine for others what the value of their lives is. With the VVD I ask: why do we link this to an age limit? That is, in principle, incorrect. I read that, in principle, the law should apply to everyone and that the law should not be limited to the elderly, but that the desire is mainly felt by people at an age and that therefore it seems obvious to limit the system to people who have reached a certain age. The cabinet talks about objective measures to prevent improper use or abuse. I agree, but how do the ministers see this? Is it possible at all to pursue fully objective criteria on a subject such as this, where each individual situation is different? How do these ministers intend to deal with violations? Do they take this with them in the bill? What measure of punishment is envisaged? To sum up, the cabinet has shown courage by taking a stand in this way. It is good that this discussion is taking place. 50PLUS is willing to think with it to complete the bill. In what way and when will the cabinet proceed with this proposal? When can we expect something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. It is good that this debate is taking place. It is a complicated debate and it is a major issue. After all, the debate is about a complete life. The question when life is finished is about dignity and self-determination. This is about life and its meaning. It is about the growing issue of loneliness and social isolation of our older people. It also has similarities with our health care. All in all, they are subjects that every human being has to deal with. I quote: "Madam, 85 years old, life is hard. There's nothing funny in life anymore, she says. She can sleep very badly and so sits in her chair all day waiting for the day to come. She hardly comes into the common spaces because she sees and hears so badly. She says the nights are the worst. She's often lying in bed crying." So what's the solution? For us today, the next question is even more important. What is the role of the government and what is the role of the government? As far as we are concerned, the solution is not in line with ending life, helping with suicide or facilitating suicide. There is gloom in the Netherlands. That gloom must be broken. Instead of constantly talking about money and other material matters and considering care for the elderly as a cost, we should look for happiness. I would almost say: go from gross domestic product to gross national happiness. Society is becoming more individualistic and the sense of community disappears. Older people are more often left to their own devices and increasingly feel lonely. We need to get rid of that. The Schnabel Committee concludes that the current system is working well and that an extension of the legal possibilities for aid to suicide is not desirable. And the committee concludes that such an extension could call into question the core values of safety, care, testability and transparency. In that line we recognize ourselves. That is a clear statement from the committee. Instead of further exploring the government's route, efforts should be made to restore the dignity of life and not to take life with dignity. Fight against the social isolation of older people. Provide better care and support. Acknowledging the value of society's silvering. The question when life is finished is ambivalent. What feels complete today can change tomorrow. "No minimum age," the government says. Is 50 years enough? Is 60 years enough? If it's enough for yourself, is it enough for your neighbors? Is it enough for your loved ones, for your children? The Netherlands is already at the forefront internationally in the field of euthanasia. Do we have to move further? As far as we are concerned, suicide aid is not, in principle, a political choice. We therefore believe, in principle, that the government should not go beyond the existing frameworks to enable suicide. I'm rounding up. In the case of military missions, it is an unwritten rule that there should be a large parliamentary majority. We are talking about people's lives. 76 seats do not feel like a sufficient mandate. Euthanasia is also about human lives. That is why today I would like to call on the government, as well as all the other political parties, not to be calculated to look for majorities in both chambers, but to make real progress on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet response to the Schnabel Committee's report has created a great deal in society. That will continue after today's debate. My group firmly believes that this is good and necessary. In response to the report, the cabinet threw a big stone into the pond by deciding not to follow the committee's advice. At least, it does as far as the point is concerned not to change the current Wtl, because it is sufficient. The conclusion that there is more possible within the Wtl than the current professional practice shows is also shared by the cabinet. It is precisely on the issue of completed life that the cabinet takes a different path. The cabinet does not share the Schnabel Committee's conclusion that a small group of people would fall outside the current law and that for that reason the law does not need to be amended. In its response, the cabinet has sought a solution that meets the autonomy of those who wish to die. The Labour Party also considers this to be very important. It is important to be able to effect autonomy by people for whom life no longer has any meaning and for whom it has become too heavy a burden to live on. These are people who, despite the attention and help of others, do not want to live anymore. In order to be able to direct their own end of life, they will generally need help from third parties. But that's illegal now. The question is how can the desire of this group of people, who suffer hopelessly and unbearably from life, be met without a medical basis to be given more direction over their own end of life? The cabinet considered that it should develop a separate legal framework in parallel with the Wtl. The Labour Party can well follow the choice of another legal framework. Suicide aid, based on the right to autonomy, is based on a different starting point than that of the Wtl, where the mercy of the doctor is the starting point. It is also about another group of people, namely those who have a consistent, considered and voluntary desire to die, because they feel their lives are complete. The unbearability and hopelessness of suffering also play a decisive role in this, but the medical basis is the missing element. The Labour Party notes that, in general terms, the Cabinet then presents a picture of criteria for ex ante review, and what they look like. The process after an agreement has been reached, and the documentation and ex post review with an approach similar to that of the Regional Review Committees, are also outlined in the Cabinet's letter. The Labour Party's group appreciates the government's desire to provide more insight into this, but at the same time is particularly keen to see its concrete impact in the new law. I say again: the Labour Party supports the direction taken, but the further development is crucial for my party. We like to think along with that. I will conclude with a few questions to both directors. The first question concerns the observation, both by the Schnabel Committee and the Cabinet, that doctors are far from making sufficient use of the possibilities offered by the euthanasia law. The cabinet refers to the code of practice on the website of the regional review committees. But do the rulers now feel that this has increased the knowledge of doctors about what is already permitted under the euthanasia law? On average, a general practitioner is confronted with a request for euthanasia once or twice every two to three years. How can the quality of the evaluation process and the knowledge of doctors be further improved? I ask both ministers to do so. The cabinet discusses this in consultation with the KNMG and examines what can be done better in the training courses. What's that gotten you? Is that enough? What else are the directors thinking about improving the implementation of the Wtl?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u108	"Wtl" stands for "Law reviewing termination of life upon request and assistance in suicide."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u109	Excuse me. Yeah, popularly put, the euthanasia law. The Schnabel Committee and the Cabinet also note that citizens would also be helped with better information. A written euthanasia request has been issued. There's information on a website and a patient brochure has been written. But in the support of the Labour Party there is a strong question of whether we know whether this information will also reach the people who are less well-spoken and who do not know the way. Is it going to be the people who are becoming increasingly behind in our computerized society? My group would like to know whether the rulers recognize this issue and what solutions they are working on. I'm rounding up. As the last speaker in this debate, I can say that much has been said today on an extremely difficult subject. I personally believe that we have succeeded in doing this in a careful and good way. I would like to thank my colleagues for this. I hope that, in our society and here, in the Chamber, we will continue to talk about this in a respectful manner and, above all, genuinely interested in everyone's view. It is only in this way that we should have a debate on completed life. This is felt and closely monitored by many in our society. For the Labour Party, the direction taken by the cabinet is an important step in the right direction. If the bill is in due course, we'll talk and rethink and follow many conversations. That's good, because that's the only way we're gonna get through this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u110	The election programme of the Labour Party, which has just appeared, says that we want to give death aid to people who think their lives are complete, but that this desire to die cannot be removed in any other way. That's an important condition. I wonder how the Labour Party, in that light, assesses the Cabinet's letter. It only contains half an A4's text on the recommendations of the Schnabel Committee to prevent people from experiencing their lives as completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union cites our election programme for the 2017 elections. The Labour Party also stated in 2012 that it was in favour of extending the possibilities for those who would like to receive help with suicide without a medical basis. The cabinet says the following about the conversation with people who have indicated that they want help with suicide without a medical condition, people who would now fall outside the euthanasia law. In my opinion, the cabinet is quite right to say that it should be a conversation with people who are well equipped to do so. In particular, it should consider whether there is no problem or a question which can be resolved in a different way. I think that's right. It must be a testable wish, but it must also be a careful consideration and a persistent desire. I fully agree with that. Whether that is put on half an A4's or on three A4's in detail and widely spoken, that doesn't matter to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u112	The Schnabel Committee has made a number of recommendations, such as acceptance of old age, revaluation of old age, prevention of loneliness and improvement of the self-reliance of older people. I do not read much about this in the cabinet's letter. It's really only half an A4's. Will the Labour Party work together with the Christian Union on a policy to prevent people from experiencing their lives as completed? Can I assume that the Labour Party will never agree to a law-completed life if the government does not also make full use of policies to prevent people from experiencing their lives as completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u113	The Christian Union is now laying down two things as a kind of contradiction. If you do one, you can't do the other. I think it should be and-and. I want to ask the other way around. Suppose we live in a dreamed society, where everyone gets everything to support, care and love and everything you can think of, and that there are people who, despite all that love and care around them, say that they think their lives are no longer worth it, would the Christian Union then show the mercy to help these people? That's the reverse question. It's not a contradiction. Both are possible as far as the Labour Party is concerned. We want to have the opportunity at all times to accommodate people with a persistent, deep desire to put an end to their lives, but who are now outside the euthanasia law, with a separate legal framework for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u114	The Christian Union sees a merciful government as a government that is committed to a revaluation of old age, to acceptance, to preventing loneliness, to better care and so on. Does the Labour Party agree with the Christian Union's proposal to use targeted policies to this end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u115	This debate is about the ethical and moral question of whether we believe that the government has a role to play in removing obstacles to people who find their lives and suffer from life. That is the essence of this debate. When that question is raised, the Labour Party says that we support the course taken by this cabinet and that we are interested in the legislation which regulates the possibility of aid for suicide without a medical basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u116	The Citizens' Initiative Completed life and suicide aid in a completed life and the opinion of the Committee of Wise Men is about the elderly with a desire to die. The age limit of 70 is then mentioned. However, the cabinet does not mention an age limit. The VVD states that it considers that there should be no age limit. There is no such thing in the euthanasia law. How does the Labour Party view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u117	In any case, that is a point that has not yet been fully discussed within my party either. I note that this is left in the Cabinet's letter. At the same time, I note that this is probably not for nothing. On this point, I would like to await the legislative proposals and see exactly how they are put into the legislative text. In the meantime, I shall continue the debate in my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u118	I think that applies to all parties. However, I think this is important, because the social debate has always been about the elderly. The Schnabel Committee also deals with the question of how older people feel positioned in society. Els van Wijngaarden's PhD research is also about this. If we let go of that age limit, should the Labour Party not say that minimum research should be carried out on what it would mean to us as a society as a whole if aid for suicide would be possible for all ages?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u119	My experience is that an answer to medical-ethical issues is never actually obtained by doing research, but by entering into conversations with as many people as possible with different views. As I said, the Labour Party wants to take the time to do so. I'll stick with that for a while. I don't see how an investigation would lead to a better answer than a good conversation with people in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u120	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u121	I'm struggling with that, too. I asked how the government sees it and how it weighs its impact on society as a whole. I'm assuming we'll get an answer to this. It would, of course, be a fundamentally different discussion if we were to discuss the border for years about a completed life of the elderly and we also see people from this group expressing their desire to let go. Legally, of course, there is something to be said for this, because an age limit is arbitrary. That would lead to a different discussion. For the PvdA, would the moment when we get and deal with the bill be the right time to release the age limit, or should we rather know it through a social debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u122	What we need to know is not for me yet. You asked me about the position of the Labour Party. I have said that I cannot answer this because we are still talking about this internally. Talking about ifs and buts and their scope and weighing should lead to a decision that is in balance. The Labour Party is not ready for that. I'm sure that conversation with us will be extended. After that there will probably also be a broad debate in society and of course we will be focusing on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-26-tweedekamer-3.u124	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 45 minutes, until 1:15 p.m.
