ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	This debate was requested in June last year. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Siderius of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it has been a while since this debate has been requested. But this has happened at the right time, because school advice must be issued before 1 March. I think we're perfect on time. School advice at the end of primary school is very important for the future of a student. Research shows that teacher and mee have the best view of the child's development, while the Cito test is a snapshot: eight years in primary school are the film and the Cito test is the picture. We've agreed that a teacher's school advice is leading. If the student still makes up for the Cito test, we have the possibility to adjust the school advice upwards. That's a good way to work, thinks the SP. We give the teacher the confidence and the student can still seize opportunities with a higher school level with a high Cito score. Yet there is pressure in this way of working. Primary schools and parents are in the middle of a clinch. Of course, that's not crazy. Parents want a high school level for their child and switch on a battery to test firms to support them. They'll see the money roll back in the register. But the opposite also happens. We saw that last Monday. Schools trying to arm themselves against mature parents, by taking IQ tests from students. Bringing forward the school advice should have destroyed the test dictatorship in the Netherlands, but unfortunately we see the opposite happening. Isn't it time we looked at this and also looked at how we can at least contain this test culture a little bit and put a stop to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mrs Siderius says schools arm themselves against mature parents. Okay, I get that from her. But the striking thing about the article added yesterday by Mr Grashoff to today's debate, to which Mrs Siderius also refers, is that it shows that this is not the cause. Schools do it because they are insecure about the school advice. How does Mrs Siderius feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	I think that's a problem. The teacher can give the best advice, looking at the development of the child in the eight years that the child attends school there. I think the teacher has the best insight into that. But hiring schools for IQ tests now also has to do with parents becoming more empowered and thinking that their child can do more. A teacher feels differently about this, after which a discussion arises, in which one needs all kinds of tests to see what the level of the child is. I'm really scared that parents are gonna say, "I'm gonna get a desk too." So we end up in an upward spiral of keys, keys and again keys. We need to find a way to stop it. I know that's a very difficult task, since you can't do that by law. That also has to do with giving trust to a teacher and putting him or her in a good position. I think that's our assignment today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Short follow-up question, Mrs Straus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am glad that Mrs Siderius points out that schools and teachers are still taking some steps. How can we help give better advice in which parents recognise each other better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	Teachers, of course, simply need to be properly trained. That's one. Two is communication. That is also an important aspect. We have seen examples of parents and education. Often it turns out it's on communication. This way, parents only get some sort of concept advice in December. Then that discussion must be fought out in two months' time. You would actually want to talk about the future much sooner, for example in the sixth or seventh grade. Then you'll have time to quietly come up with some advice. I think you'll stop the discussion between parents, schools and teachers from getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Siderius thinks I am very frequently on her side when it comes to combating all kinds of weird tests and things in education; there are too many examples left. However, we must also be careful, in the sense that tests can sometimes make sense. The NIO key is an example of this. It's been used in education for years. Many schools in the past did not use the Cito final test but the NIO test to support their advice. Is the SP in principle against supporting an opinion with tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	No. I can imagine you'd want to know where a child is. What's the level? I think we've gone a little crazy in the Netherlands. The other day I was at a school where people had calculated that a child during the eight years of elementary school will be tested 95 times. Then it is about the Cito-key but also about keys in all kinds of other areas. Then I wonder what we're doing. I understand that in the seventh grade, you can see where a child stands, where it is according to the teacher, and how that can be reconciled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	Okay. I can't answer anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	There is a great deal to be said about it, and I will, of course, do so in my contribution. It is about the role of tests, about why there should actually be an opinion and about the system as a whole. Now I'm really interested in this test, which the article in the general newspaper was about. That test, as Mrs Straus said, is intended for the teacher to support his advice. I agree that this should be communicated with parents and so on, but let us take a very good look at what we are going to do today. If we were to say 'it's really bad, because it's a test', we might throw away something that's valuable. Is the SP willing to look at it with that nuance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Sure. I would like to say two things about this. If it's necessary, of course it should be possible. However, we do not want every student, for example in the eighth grade, to take such a test. If it's necessary, if there's any doubt, it's possible. As far as the Cito test is concerned, we have seen in recent years that schools were going to focus on the Cito test and prepare their students for it. However, you want to make the Cito test as good as possible is not the focus of education. You want the child to gather knowledge and get to the best appropriate educational location.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	I keep hearing Mrs Siderius talking about that teacher who needs to be put into position, but that teacher was long in position, in a much better position than he is now. Now he's on his own, while he used to be able to back up his advice with the Cito test. Does Mrs Siderius know about the Amsterdam study from a very long time ago? In this context, they have worked for a while without a Cito test. The study showed that 11% of all opinions were over-advised, resulting in sitting down, draining and so on. Why over-advisation? Because those teachers, without the basis of the test, are apparently not up to the parents, or are themselves too positive about their students. I was a teacher; so was I. Then things are not going to be right; you need that objective advice. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	I don't know the research in question. So the answer must remain yours. A teacher sees a child for eight years, in all facets, not only in terms of intelligence, language knowledge and so on, but also in terms of social development. It can also involve external factors. How are things at home, for example? The home situation can influence how a student takes the test. A teacher can take those kinds of factors into account in the final school advice. And mind you, at the moment, the school still has to reconsider the school advice when the Cito score is higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think that's a very thin answer. Many parents, of course, also see all kinds of problems. They say, for example, that the school advice given does not suit their child or that it is not clear how the school advice is produced. Then the teachers, whom Mrs Siderius is so eager to put in a position, are facing the parents. Mrs. Siderius is dropping the parents. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	What is Mrs Siderius' opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	Could you give me a brief answer, Mrs Siderius?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's a nice question. We don't drop parents at all. We do not want parents and teachers to face each other. We do not want all kinds of test firms to be hired, and then we want these tests to be carried out. In my opinion, we must ensure that the trust in the teacher and in the parent is strengthened, that they are put in a position to do so and that the conversation starts. I notice that in a lot of schools this happens quite late. This is only then dealt with in the eighth grade, when you would really like schools to talk to parents much earlier, for example in the sixth or seventh grade, so that they can come up with a constructive school advice that both parties can support. We would like to see the test culture stopped. I would also like to ask a few questions about the school advice itself. The SP has already asked several questions about teachers of primary schools who were confronted with placement methods in which only single school advice could be given. An advice mavo/havo or vmbo/havo is no longer possible. Teachers say that part of the pupils are estimated just between two levels. They want to give the student the benefit of the doubt. I can't do this right now because of agreements between school boards. The teacher and the student are the victims of this. The SP would like all students to have the opportunity to flow in at the highest possible school level, even if there is doubt. Our proposal is to make it impossible for schools to agree that only single opinions should be given. I know that the Secretary of State also thinks this is a good idea, but if he doesn't want to embrace it now, then my party will at least put forward a proposal to stop allowing the placement methods to state that only single opinions can be given. I hope, of course, that my colleagues will support this. The SP would also like to see secondary schools exert pressure on primary schools to share information on specific pupils for admission from the apprenticeship tracking system, educational reports or test results. As far as we are concerned, the school advice must be leading. The SP is getting signals that this is still happening. There is a motion by GroenLinks to amend the law, so that vo-schools can only receive any information after the admission of a student. The Secretary of State wants to start a new investigation first, but in our opinion it is all about a snail's walk. Is the Secretary of State prepared to simply carry out the motion? Finally. The SP irritates itself green and yellow by the test culture in education. First we had the Cito dictatorship and now it turns out that schools themselves also have IQ tests taken. The laughing third parties are the educational consultancy firms, which make big money out of this. What's the Secretary of State gonna do to control this a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has been on the table for more than three years now. A lot has happened in those days. It would be wrong to judge the cabinet only on reduction of charges. The cabinet must be assessed as fully as possible. You could also look at the 100,000 extra unemployed, and so I can go on for a while. In our opinion, this principle also applies to students. This assessment must also be as complete as possible. A student is more than just a Cito score, more than a snapshot. Each child is unique and a versatile being. It is therefore a good thing that the teacher's advice is now leading, because teachers have a more complete picture of the student. They've seen the student up close. The mandatory final test, a Cito test or not, can function fine as a kind of second opinion. We believe that education should offer equal opportunities to all. It shouldn't matter that your parents are low-educated, poor or born abroad. That is the inclusive society we stand for. In this context, we have previously raised the issue of the possibility of lower school advice for children with a migrant background and children with low-educated parents. Can the Secretary of State say whether such differences also arise when adjusting school advice after a review? If not, will the Secretary of State have this examined in the review of the law, which will follow later? Depending on the answer, we will decide whether we will table a motion on this point. Finally. Both the inspection and Parents & Education have received complaints from parents. I find it interesting that more reports arrive at Parents & Education than at the inspection. How does the Secretary of State explain this? How school advice is produced would be unclear. Schools would indicate in advance not to reconsider. How does this relate to the law? Vo-schools would take the final test into account. Will the Secretary of State involve parents in the formal evaluation of the law? In the letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber, he also writes that he transfers almost all the concerns of the Chamber, parents and schools to the evaluation of the law. Is the Secretary of State going to involve parents in this and, if so, how? On this point, too, we will listen carefully to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. The left-wing parties, led by the PvdA and D66, have tried to present the Cito final test as a teaching-to-the-test instrument that does wrong to the teacher's school advice. In June 2015 it appeared that secondary schools still allow the Cito scores to be taken into account when hiring new students. We have warned about this a number of times and said that it is logical that this should happen. Primary education does not have a final standard, which does exist in secondary education. There we have a nice system of national exams and school exams. That creates a civil effect. The level of knowledge and skills of, for example, a VMBO diploma is guaranteed. This creates confidence among employers, in follow-up studies and in society as a whole. In primary education, we don't know that. The Cito test, as we knew it before the socialists came to power on education, gave further education, the children themselves and the parents an objective appreciation of the development of the pupil during the eight years of primary education. A beautiful apprenticeship tracking system. The Cito test was therefore a wonderful and child-friendly alternative to the exams we know everywhere. The Cito has collected a wealth of experience that is even appreciated internationally. Everywhere the Cito is praised, except in that wailing Netherlands where the educational field is dominated by D66- and GroenLinkstypes who everywhere see damage to the delicate child soul. For what is more harmful in the eyes of those equality fundamentalists than selecting, identifying and discriminated against students on the basis of learning behaviour, learning performance, perseverance and so on? However, this is part of education. "Teaching to the test," it's called. I never understood why that teaching to the test is so perfide. "Practising for the exam" I always said myself when I was a teacher in Rotterdam-Zuid. Just practicing for the exam, Mr. Van Meenen. And the students appreciate that. With the de facto abolition of the Cito test, secondary education lacks an objective assessment of the student. The teacher determines and does so too often from a, by the way, overpositive judgment. Sometimes this is because the parents exert pressure, sometimes because the teacher himself is reluctant to disappoint children. Especially many starting teachers succumb under the pressure of the parents. I refer to the research of Gaikhorst, University of Amsterdam, 2014. It's all human deficiency. It is logical and therefore understandable that schools seek refuge in alternatives, such as admission examinations and IQ tests. After all, wrong matching with further education, that is serious. Wrong matching leads to uncertainty, to a chaotic learning line, to drain, to stay seated and thus to disappointment and to delay the development of talents. Staying seated and draining are very damaging for the student. That's bad for the child's soul. This leads to disappointment and a chaotic learning line. No one is served by that. For what is happening now, we have now warned you several times. When we shift the decline time of the final test from February to April, secondary education itself starts testing and inventing ways to assess the level of the student. That was always widely denied here, among others by Mr Van Meenen. I pointed out the entrance exams at the time. He denied there were any. Well, they exist everywhere now. More and more primary schools even have students from the 8th grade taking an IQ test. They want to be stronger with those critical parents. The PVV asks the Secretary of State to accept his responsibility and simply acknowledge...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr Beertema, your input gives Mr Van Meenen a reason to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	Oh, but I'm almost done. May I finish my speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	I see that Mr Van Meenen agrees. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	The Freedom Party asks the Secretary of State to accept his responsibility and to acknowledge that there is a very poor political solution to this problem. The PVV proposes to bring forward the moment of purchase as we knew it in February, possibly March. The only thing the PVV wants is for further education to be given as complete advice as possible: the school advice, below which is the objective image that provides the Cito test. The PVV will say it again every debate: State Secretary, acknowledge and fix your mistake and bring forward the take-off moment of the Cito test; it simply cannot be more politically poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr Bertema's speech is, of course, full of contradictions. He says the apprenticeship tracking system provides a lot of information about the students. That is exactly what is left, and that is precisely why this law has come about, namely to make all the results of the apprenticeship follow-up system lead and not that one snapshot at the end. That is what the debate is about. Mr Beertema, of course, makes this a caricature again. Yeah, he did warn about entrance exams, but I did, too. Apparently, he thinks those exams are still there, but such exams are in violation of the law. How does Mr Beertema view that? Does he think it is excellent that the law is being acted upon or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	It wasn't my law, but of course you have to obey the law. I'm trying to explain to you, without falling into caricatures like you did at the time by talking about kindergarten examinations and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	Let's try to do it through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	At the time Mr Van Meenen presented the kindergarten test, a very simple sound with pictures and a small conversation, as a blood-sweat-and-tear exam to which kindergarten children go shudderingly. That's the caricature he makes. I hear Mrs Siderius talking about test dictatorship. Those are the caricatures, and we would be the populists. That's what I wanted to say. The Cito has provided an excellent apprenticeship tracking system. At the end of the 8th grade we have an excellent Cito test, which takes extraordinary account of all kinds of conditions of children, such as when the dog or rabbit dies and so on. There are all kinds of ways to compensate for that. Mr Van Meenen is making it a caricature. I'm gonna distance myself from that. We had a wonderful system. That's been ruined by all the parties here. I think that's a shame. I propose a low-policy solution by simply bringing it back. Then there is the school advice of the teacher and of the school, which is worth a lot, in which that poor teacher is supported in his own uncertainty and in his uncertainty towards the parents by a beautiful, objective test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr Beertema draws on his years of experience in the MBO, but apparently he doesn't really have a good idea of what happened so far at the end of the primary school. That's where the Cito test really turns into an exam. That was also the intention at first. How does he look back at the Cito test as a real graduation? He himself said in his speech that he was not, but that was what we were on our way to. Does he think that there should be a final examination for primary education, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	I believe that there should be an objective final standard for group eight of primary education, so that we no longer allow students, as was often the case in Rotterdam-Zuid, to move to a VMBO school without file from group eight and only after six months it becomes clear that they have a language disadvantage of three or four years, with which those students are disabled for the rest of their lives. I'd like to avoid that. I want us to know what a student can and knows, and on that basis we can make a plan for secondary education so that we can also develop those talents. Mr van Meenen and the other parties do not want this to happen; they want it to happen and they have created all this uncertainty. That is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	Keys are part of education and it is therefore good that the Cito test has now become an objective second opinion. It is disappointing that Mr Beertema still does not see that. It offers children more opportunities, because education is so much more than just that test about language and arithmetic. The school advice says much more about eight years of primary education. It is also disappointing that Mr Beertema still underestimates the teachers. How does he assess what is in the State Secretary's documents, namely that the differences between the school advice and the final test score correspond to previous years? There is no big difference between the result of that test and the final opinion in previous years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	A clear question. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then there is a clear answer for the PvdA's lady. Then how does Mrs Ypma explain that secondary education is so desperate for objective standards, which it does not get from primary education? That's why these IQ tests are done and that's why those entrance exams are arranged. Schools in secondary education are penalised if they place pupils at too high a level because they then have to drain to a lower type of education or they have to stay in place. That's hopeless for a secondary school. Those schools just want information. And thanks to Mrs. Ypma, they're not getting any objective information right now. Mrs Ypma says: well, that language and math is not so important; there is more in life like sustainability and hugging for azc's. That is all very important, but for me language and mathematics are very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u36	Unfortunately, I do not get an answer to my question, so I shall repeat it: how does Mr Bosma judge that? I would be happy to answer his question myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u37	I didn't intervene just in time. I think that Mr Beertema's question can be put very well to you in your term, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u38	I look forward to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u39	Let's make a deal like this. You will now have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u40	In that case, I would like to ask again how Mr Beertema considers that this difference is not so great at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u41	I think that's a big difference. You also received the messages from the elderly organisations. You also know, because that's why you're standing here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u42	I didn't get those messages, but Mrs. Ypma might.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u43	Sorry. Mrs. Ypma has received them. We have received them all: all these complaints from parents who fear that the teacher's advice is too one-sided. They do need an objective basis, which Mrs Ypma does not want to give them. I find that disappointing. We had a very nice system. There were hooks and eyes on them, but let's try for God's sake to smooth those hooks and eyes and improve things with small steps. That's how we do it in life, and also in education. But no, that whole Cito test had to be abolished. That's why we're here now. And next year we're back here, because this isn't going to pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u44	I would like to place a second interruption in this one term, Mr President. I would ask Mr Beertema not to misrepresent things. The Cito test still exists, but it is no longer decisive for the transition from primary education to secondary education. Does Mr Beertema agree with me? And would he take back what he said, namely that the whole test has been abolished? That is a completely wrong idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u45	The Cito test, as it existed popularly, as it was experienced by all parents, no longer exists; it has been abolished. This is now an ex post test, which can at most be used as a support of the teacher's judgment, or not. What happens after that is completely unclear. We now actually have a very expensive instrument to give just a little plus or minus to the final judgment of the school. That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. I always like to listen to Mr Beertema when he lists a whole list of D66, the Labour Party, the SP and the CDA, who fortunately have made a number of things better in education. He doesn't think so, and he can. Tens of thousands of children and their parents are under the spell this month: the choice of high school. It is an exciting and important step for these children and often also for their parents. That's a step that includes school advice. Where is the child best in his or her place? Only one thing should be at the heart of this, and that is the child. Unfortunately, it isn't. It is not the child that is at the heart of the issue, or at least too little..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We might ask ourselves why there is actually an opinion. Is that because it's necessary to tell a 12-year-old what his future looks like? Or is that the direct consequence of our system, of the establishment of secondary education? It requires a choice to be made for one of the three tubes, as I would call them. That is a fundamental problem that is actually still under the question of how to make the best transition. Try to imagine that there is no advice or Cito test and that a child is simply taken into further education, with everything he has already done in primary education, and that we continue to develop. That is a imaginable situation, but it does require reflection on the current system. I've tabled a motion on it before. It's accepted, too. We're gonna think about this order. This has to be done mainly from the point of view of education, but it will and must be done. The child must be at the heart of offering opportunities, rather than reducing risks to schools. For D66 it is important that the transition between primary and secondary school is not a leap in the deep and the strange, but that the transition is warm. I can see Mr Beertema's horror. This is about the child and not about the advice an sich or a figure. Involve parents very well. Take them into the child's development, so that the advice is not a surprise for them, but a logical consequence of eight years of primary education. What steps will the Secretary of State take to promote this? We can see that things are not being experienced that way at the moment. This debate has been requested following reports that the Cito test is still being used by schools as a means of selection. In the meantime, we know that secondary schools also require intelligence tests or the entrance test from the seventh grade as an alternative. My group has serious objections to this. We have no objection to these tests being carried out. I have just said something about it in the debate on the interruption. This type of test can help the teacher to provide the best support for the advice and to include the parents in it. Three years ago, a bill was passed in this Chamber to ensure that the future of a child is not determined by a single test. Why do high schools like to make that honking data so leading? Where does this distrust in school advice come from? Maybe a secretary of state has the answer. Has he consulted with the VO Council about this? If not, will he do so immediately? Can we just do this? Is the Education Inspectorate supervising this? Is she gonna take where that's necessary? Is there any possibility for parents to report improper selection to the inspection? A cause for this selection by secondary schools may be in the financial incentives, making it more attractive to select children with the least chance of falling out rather than offering opportunities to children. Does the Secretary of State see this potential risk and what does he do about it? The importance of a good choice of schools has to do with the intransigence of our education system. I've called it the shufflebox model before. Once you're in a particular type of education, it's almost impossible to go to another level. That is why my group is calling for broader bridge classes and double opinions and recommends that we do everything possible to promote these issues in education. Now it's school advice at 12:00. That should change with regard to D66. The transition from primary school to secondary school is exciting enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u47	I have a question for Mr Van Meenen about the mixed bridge classes. Like Mr Van Meenen, the CDA has also made a warm plea for this. Does Mr Van Meenen think that it is also up to politics to intervene in education in such a way that vo-schools are obliged to offer only broad bridge classes, or that financial benefits are linked to them, which are not linked to schools that choose to offer one direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have already said in my contribution that you must seriously ask yourself whether you should maintain the system as we know it now. After all, this choice at a young age, that early selection, must take place in a model that also works very much in the boil and causes social backwardness. However, as long as the system is as it is, with vmbo, havo and vwo, I do think that there should be incentives in the system to promote more broad bridge classes. As far as I am concerned, this can be done in all kinds of ways. I think an obligation goes a long way. This means, for example, that we should say goodbye to category schools, which can also have their value. If you have a good story and you come out with the parents of your school, it's sometimes quite defendable, but now that's too often a choice based on efficiency. The life of a school director I also speak from my own experience If he chooses children who have been pre-selected on the basis of single advice, he is considerably easier. That's just not enough for kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'd just like to clarify something. Does Mr Van Meenen now suggest that a category mavo or a category gymnasium per pupil should be paid less than a school community in which broad bridge classes are offered? Let me get this straight. I would like to make that very clear, because that would mean that Mr Van Meenen would opt for a new 'The Hague mould', for'makability thinking' and for 'perverse' incentives by giving schools the choice to offer these broad bridge classes for money and perhaps not because it is best for those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Rog is tearing up a lot at the same time. As far as I know in the current model, category schools, and especially gymnasia, are receiving less funding than large schools. There are very good reasons for this. For example, education on vmbo is simply more expensive than purely theoretical education on a gymnasium. We're going to a new funding model. You can see how you stimulate the setting of broad bridge classes, but when you say that every school should have broad bridge classes, you say goodbye to these kinds of schools. However, I am convinced that they also have value for students, so we have to be very careful. Let us not forget that there are also students who benefit from a simple advice and are exactly where they should be. So let us be very careful about that. You can say that where it could happen, namely in broad school communities, it does not happen. There's the stinger. That is not enough for students, and I want to work on it, like Mr Rog. I am against any perverse incentive, as Mr Rog knows, so we are going to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's great. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I am somewhat reassured by this last interruption debate with Mr Van Meenen, for which I am grateful. Only since 1 August 2014 it is no longer the snapshot of the final test but the school advice leading to admission to secondary education. That's for some schools and for some people to get used to. However, that school advice is based on the broad development of the child, also looking at learning outcomes in groups five through eight. The CDA believes it is important that we trust the primary education where teachers have followed and supervised children for eight years in their development. For children who appear to be able to take a higher level on the basis of their final test, a review clause is laid down in the legislation, and that is extremely valuable. The CDA feels it is undesirable that secondary schools still allow the Cito test to be taken into account in their admission policy. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is also undesirable for primary schools under pressure from parents to carry out all kinds of additional tests, entrance tests or intelligence tests. I say that the tests themselves are fine and it is fine if schools believe in them, but not with that pressure and only with the aim of supporting the highest possible level, where the primary school comes to a different conclusion with regard to overall development. Does the Secretary of State share our view that schools cannot be obliged to do so? How does he appreciate the fact that according to the article in the daily newspaper, some schools feel compelled to do so by parents? Some of the schools indicate that they have doubts about the accuracy of the school advice based on the performance of the pupils and suspect that higher school advice has sometimes been obtained under parental pressure. This is, of course, very undesirable, especially for the students concerned. It is good that this point is taken into account in the evaluation. Thank you for that. The CDA is also pleased that the initial figures do not show that the school advice differs from the opinions given in previous years. In fact, the system we have organized seems to be working. What is striking is that the trend of less multiple school advice, which has been visible for some years, has continued from 30% in 2.1% to only 16% today. My group also thinks that this is undesirable. This is a development that worries us. Especially in the Netherlands where we select students relatively early, they can benefit from multiple school advice, so that they are given the chance to follow a higher type of education or can start in a mixed secondary class. Unfortunately, there are vo-schools that are putting increasing pressure on primary schools to come up with a single advice, or that agree in partnerships, or municipal, or in governing between primary schools and vo-schools. We do not think this situation is right. I ask the Secretary of State if he can confirm that there can be mixed school advice in all schools in the Netherlands and whether he can indicate how he has carried out Mrs Ypma's and myself's motion. In that motion, the Secretary of State was called upon to explicitly communicate to primary schools that mixed opinions are permitted. How is he going to ensure that all teachers and school leaders in primary education feel free to provide pupils with mixed school advice that is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u53	That was the end of your speech, but Mr Grashoff would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u54	I very much agree with Mr Rog that it is worrying that these multiple opinions are becoming increasingly widespread in the broad bridge classes. Well, that has a connection. The question is what we do about it, although the eternal dilemma is to what extent you impose something and to what extent you allow something. The Secretary of State has already made it clear that he considers it undesirable, but that legislation and regulations do not oppose it. We know that collective agreements have been reached in regions, which means that an individual school can hardly escape these agreements, because that means that it is out of the question. Does Mr Rog agree with me that perhaps it is time to draw up a rule for this and, if necessary, to amend our laws and regulations a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u55	As far as mixed advice is concerned, I have sent out a very clear signal. I believe that every school, teacher and school leader should be able to come to that mixed advice in freedom. As far as I am concerned, it is very undesirable that there should be fewer and fewer bridge classes. I believe that we have drawn attention to this before, but Mr Grashoff went a little further than I did. I think the Secretary of State is gonna work that out. We will continue to discuss this in March of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u56	Does Mr Rog agree with me that these regional agreements need to be brought to an end because they have a form of compulsion and are therefore contrary to the freedom to come up with a school advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u57	I am very much in favour of appointments and a warm transfer between primary schools and vo-schools. I am very much opposed to an experienced or a real containment of primary schools in order to arrive at mixed school advice. I repeat that every teacher and every school leader in the Netherlands must have the freedom to come up with mixed school advice if he or she considers it appropriate for a particular student.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. In the debate on this subject eleven months ago, it seems like a kind of déjà vu.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I often hear from colleagues that education can no longer bear the test and that it demonstrates that by imposing tests, politics cannot have confidence in education. Now I have to say that education itself is introducing a new test. During the previous debate, the issue was that secondary education would like to double check whether the advice of the primary school is in order. Now primary education itself is going to introduce additional tests, because one is uncertain about one's own advice. I've been a spokesperson for my party for three years now, but I don't understand any of this. Not only does education have no confidence in politics, but not only do schools have no confidence in each other, but apparently schools also have no confidence in themselves. The compulsory apprenticeship follow-up system and a final test in each primary school are intended to ensure that pupils enter secondary education at the right level after primary school and that it is visible to the pupil, parents and teacher at the level at which a pupil is present throughout the primary school period. When I read in the Parents & Education letter that these advices are often not in line with expectations raised by the school earlier, I understand very well that parents are angry. I would be, too. School advice should not be the opinion of one teacher at one time at the end of primary school, but an opinion based on an eight-year career. If schools get serious about this and include parents in it, the students simply get good and appropriate advice. Last year it was concluded that schools could learn a lot about how to handle the data from the apprenticeship follow-up system. Is in the absence of these skills the cause of the need for extra security in determining the school advice, I ask the Secretary of State, or does he see any other cause? The result of the final test comes in after the opinion. If a student scores better on the test than the school advice, the opinion should be reconsidered and the level adjusted upwards. In this way the final test is the second objective given, in addition to the school advice. Apparently, there are problems with that order. Primary schools seem to feel so insecure that they will also take other tests in addition to the final test. Sometimes they do not want to change the advice upwards, even though the student scores better. VET schools sometimes indicate that they cannot or do not want to place a student to a higher level after registration. How does the Secretary of State feel about all that? Is the latter, so it is no longer possible or willing to place it at a higher level, just something that plays in large cities, or does it also play in regions where there is no shortage of places in secondary education? My question is: could it be a solution to putting the finals and school advice more side by side? That is what the VVD really wanted, but given the majority in the Chamber, we have finally chosen a different solution. Otherwise we will have two tests at the end of primary education and then, in my view, we will have achieved the opposite of what we were actually aiming for. Another problem identified in the transition to further education is that schools do not want pupils with dual advice. These are advices such as havo/vwo or vmbo/havo. We have already expressed our support for double school advice here in the Chamber on a number of occasions. The Secretary of State emphasizes this openly and actively. He has changed the way the inspection was conducted at this point, which was an obstacle. Despite this, we are still getting signals that regional placement agreements focus on single opinions. How many of these reports have been made over the past year? What kind of issues were involved and what has happened to resolve them? What is the Secretary of State doing to prevent agreements from being made in regional placement methods which are not in line with this legislation? Trust is the key word in this discussion. As far as we are concerned, it should also be much more so that both schools together take responsibility for the proper connection between primary and secondary education. I would like to see more on behalf of the VVD. It is in the interests of the pupil and the parents, but also in the interests of the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. Education is there to offer opportunities. Opportunities for children to find out what they're good at, to find out what they like and to practice what they still have to learn. It is important for the Labour Party that all children are given the same opportunity to develop regardless of where they were born, regardless of the school their father visited or the work their mother does. Thousands of teachers are committed to this every day, with passion and pride for their profession. In our children's careers, the transition from primary school to secondary school is a very important moment. Unfortunately, that selection is very early. In many cases, children at the age of 11 already have to make a very precise choice as to the level at which they are about to flow into the labour market. To apply for secondary education, children are advised by their primary school. Luckily, we've already adapted that in the law. Because schools have been able to follow their children for years, they can also see what's inside. Maybe it doesn't come out completely yet, but it's in there. That is why the school advice has become leading. This advice should be reconsidered and can be adjusted if the final test shows that a student is capable of doing more. That's my first problem. The school advice should be reconsidered by a school if the final test shows that the student is performing at a higher level of education than the school advice. Last year this occurred in 23% of pupils. They were eligible for such a review, but only 4% of those pupils were affected by the fact that the opinion had been amended. What's hiding behind these numbers? What does such a review look like? Why does it result in an adjustment of the opinion for only 4% of pupils? What is the background of these students and their parents? Is there equal opportunities in these cases, regardless of the socio-economic or socio-cultural background of pupils? We would like to guarantee equal opportunities and the opinion should be revised upwards for most children. That has to change. All children have the right to education that is in line with their level and ensures that children can develop even further. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that there is always a conversation between parents and the school when the Cito test is higher than the school advice and that parents are reminded of their rights, namely the right to object to the school advice. My second objection has often been mentioned here and concerns the fact that agreements have been made in some regions that only single opinions should be given. I have tabled a motion stating that it is not allowed to do so, and I would like the Secretary of State to do so. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what he's going to do to get these appointments off the table between school administrators. In what way can the Secretary of State encourage schools to provide less single advice and more multiple advice? I'm worried about this. Some children benefit from delaying the selection time for the specific level of education, so that there is more time to explore and explore talent, opportunities and interests. Does the Secretary of State intend to investigate this further, or is he even prepared to amend regulations? Thirdly, we see that there are still schools which also rely on the Cito test data for admission. The law doesn't allow that. In the letter from the Secretary of State, I read that in almost all cases children are admitted on the basis of the school advice and that almost always schools act in accordance with legislation. Almost always? Schools must always act in accordance with legislation! Unclearness must be removed, but if the law is deliberately not followed, action must be taken. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State must leave no room there and the inspection must take place, because thresholds must not be set from all kinds of personal interests. This should not be seen as a grey area. Children should be given opportunities and education on earth should be given them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u60	I think Mr Beertema would like to ask you another question. We owe it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u61	Oh, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u62	I hear Mrs Ypma saying that 23% of children receive wrong advice. Is that advice too high or too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's an advice that's too low. 17% of children receive advice that is too low a full level and 6% receive advice that is half a level too low. I'm saying this out of my head because I don't have the numbers on me, but I think they're the right numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u64	Then the parents have the right to be placed in that higher school type. But if it's the other way around, what happens? What percent is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u65	I know that Mr Beertema and I have different principles. The principle of the Labour Party is that education on earth is to offer children opportunities and therefore they should always have the benefit of the doubt. That means that the teacher can best assess what the child can do and what the child has in him. If the teacher is wrong and the child is underrated, for example because of the level of education and the background of parents, this must be restored. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, children always have the right to get what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's how we remember the Labour Party. It's just win-win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's a comment, not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u68	The Labour Party gives the benefit of the doubt. For my party, the odds of students are paramount. We must do everything we can to ensure that all children receive the education that suits them. Education that challenges them to do what they themselves thought impossible, education that allows children to dream and that helps them to make their dreams come true. That should never, ever, be hindered by school administrators, teachers or the PVV, who, for whatever reason, are sometimes more important to schools than to children's interests and opportunities, for their own sake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u69	You've made clever use of an interruption, Mrs. Ypma. Well done. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. We often talk about the transition from primary school to secondary school. That's an important transition, but he seems to be suffering from overweight. That's not good. For pupils and parents, school advice has become increasingly important. This is largely due to the increasing rigidity in the columns within secondary education. This makes the choice more and more difficult. For secondary schools, school advice is extremely important and seems to be growing. In fact, they are partly calculated on efficiency, both in the substructure and in the superstructure. I call this the 'early selection clamp': the settlement system in secondary education provides an incentive for schools to assess pupils at a safe level. The more careful you allow, the easier it is to meet efficiency requirements throughout the school career. This is a subtle process in which the law and rules are not always in flagrant conflict, but in which a culture of mutual distrust arises. And then the parents. They naturally have the desire to ensure that their children receive the highest possible level of education. In the meantime, they know that this is what you have to do with the school advice of primary education for secondary education. You never know; maybe that primary school has been too careful, maybe there was pressure from secondary education. And so all kinds of tricks are pulled out of the closet. That distrust in that triangle, between parents, po and vo, leads to a lot of hassle. Parents who have an extra IQ test taken at a time when I say it's not meaningful and not good for the child. Po-schools that are already responding to that and are going to do so because of a lack of self-confidence themselves. That's a weird thing. Vo-schools who prefer to include those Citoscores and at least look at those scores with argus eyes and then consider having a serious conversation with primary education because it is too easy to advise. That keeps each other in balance, and that is a bad balance. This is at the heart of the problem. We have to establish that the government itself is partly responsible for that story. This has to do with the regulation of return requirements in secondary education, which we are dealing with, and with the fact that we leave a great deal of freedom to education in order to keep itself further locked up in those tubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u71	I hear Mr Grashoff say what I have heard before in this debate. These parents are so much blamed by the gentlemen and ladies politicians. They make a huge reproach on all parents in the Netherlands. Those parents would be looking for ways to place their child as high as possible in the education system. I'd say, what are we getting into? It's up to the parents to decide how they want to deal with this, isn't it? They're their kids. Who is Mr Grashoff to be so critical about that? You are not talking about this at all, Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks. That's what these parents are about. They're responsible for this. If they find ways to do that, they should, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u72	I don't blame these parents for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, I don't blame them at all. I have said that there is a situation of distrust between parents, the po and the vo around the school advice. That's what I'm actually saying. I don't dispute parents' freedom to want what's best for their kid. Of course not! It would be very strange if we were to challenge it. I think that's a very logical commitment on the part of these parents. But in the present system, this, combined, leads to undesirable things. That's what I was gonna say. If I have been able to clarify that with this, I am glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u75	It is true that Mr Grashoff and his colleagues from the left here in the Chamber have made sure that objective judgment has disappeared, which has made these parents extremely insecure. That's what created these undesirable situations. Mr Grashoff must not now talk about undesirable situations, because they were caused by him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u76	This is something I disagree with. There was a discussion on this in the Chamber. It has been said: a snapshot of a key is not objective, but a snapshot that is translated into numbers for a key. Such a snapshot is not objective at all. The teacher in primary education is much better able to make an actual judgement based on his or her knowledge of the student for eight years. In doing so, he can take all test results, but also the content of the apprenticeship tracking system. In this way he can release a beautiful, good and comprehensive advice on the student. If there are still questions about the quality of school advice from the po, it should be our commitment to better enable teachers in the po to give that school advice in a good way. As far as I am concerned, more attention should also be paid to the training of primary school teachers. How can you judge students in a good way? Then we're going the right way. However, mistrust is of no benefit to anyone. In previous debates, my group has expressed all its concerns and a number of solutions have been identified. One of them is the elimination of underbuilding efficiency. That has become a little less, because there has been a very slight change in the regulations. But it is still the case that secondary schools are taken care of when a student goes down a step or a step up during his years in the substructure. It doesn't matter if you call that -0.5 and +0.5, or 0 and 1. In fact, we do the same thing, it's just called something else. At the same time, there will still be a minor in the inspection if a student remains in the substructure. These are things that we really need to stop doing, because it nourishes a situation in education that is not useful, not for education itself and certainly not for the pupils. It means that in the course of this debate I will at least table another motion to remove the wrong stimulus from the system. I'm way out of time, Mr. Chairman. I come to the Klever motion about not sharing the educational report in advance. The Secretary of State doesn't want to carry out that motion yet, but I think it could. In fact, the Secretary of State says that there is some reason for this. In addition, the knowledge of this information is valued by schools. That is true, but the information may as well be provided after the placement and admission. We see the advantage of that. My group welcomes the Secretary of State's efforts to promote the broad secondary school. This broad secondary class, including that multi-level advice, is an important and necessary means of mitigating what I call the "early selection clamp," precisely in our secluded education system. Both are therefore of great importance. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will make a firm commitment to both the multiple advice and the maintenance of the broad secondary class.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u77	With this, you have run out of time, Mr Grashoff. Mrs Siderius would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u78	I would like to ask a question about the Klever motion. Do I understand correctly that GroenLinks is going to propose today that it should already be regulated by law that vo-schools will not be able to see educational reports before admission is final?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u79	Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u80	That GroenLinks thinks so, we already figured that out. Do you want to start legalizing this right now? I think that's the difference with the Secretary of State. He noted and expressed the need for in-depth research. As far as the SP is concerned, we're gonna take care of that right away. I would, of course, like to do that with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes, of course. But this is a little bit of questioning about the familiar road, because the Klever motion asks for it. We still think so. I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u82	That's good to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u83	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u84	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are discussing this issue. It is also a good time, because Mrs Siderius was right to talk in many schools in the coming weeks about the advice for children at primary school going to secondary school. So perhaps it is also a good thing that we are considering this in the House of Representatives. This is an important moment. 200,000 students who are now in grade eight are going to secondary school next year. Of course, that's an exciting moment. The transition from primary school to secondary school is an important step. At the same time, I think it is important to note that this should never be decisive. You have to be careful to make final statements for children at such a young age. Soon I will say something about the value of the advice: a single or double opinion. A number of spokesmen have asked for this. I think it is important that in secondary education children do not swim in fiends. If they develop again, we all know the late bloomers, then it is important that education is flexible enough to offer them opportunities. I do not want to dwell too long on how and why the legislative amendment we agreed with all of us three years ago. I also have the impression that the essence of that law is still shared by a large majority of the Chamber; perhaps not entirely by Mr Beertema, who asked a number of critical questions about this, including the timing of the final test. This is certainly a theme that is taken into account in the evaluation. At the time, however, it was an important choice to amend the law and to ensure that the idea of the final test as a kind of entrance exam for secondary education, a snapshot, is released, instead, to look more closely at the professional judgements of teachers and to value them more. These teachers have often experienced the children for eight years in primary school and are therefore much better than that snapshot able to come up with good advice. The new frameworks were in force for the first time in 2015. In March 2015, I informed both bass schools and secondary schools about this. Schools have the space to give multiple advice. I want to highlight that the general picture is that it went pretty well. A number of spokesmen already referred to the letter on this subject. This shows that there are not entirely different opinions. At the same time, a number of spokesmen rightly address some of the bottlenecks that can be identified after the first round of reductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u85	I do not want to dwell too long with the Secretary of State on the past, but I must say something. What have we really done with this whole exercise when we hear Mrs Ypma of the Labour Party say that 23% of the so-called professional advice is not too bad, because it is professional advice that is wrong? How many percent of the Cito keyboards were wrong? I'd like to put that question to you. This gives an indication of the quality of the transition from primary to secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u86	There is a discrepancy between the school advice and the final test, formerly the Cito test, which schools could voluntarily take. Even in the past, schools were not obliged to give one-on-one advice on the basis of the Cito test. It was also possible to deviate from this point of view. However, experience at the time showed that the Cito test was used as a kind of entrance exam. Schools said: "The advice of the primary school? I'm sure you do, but you can't get in until we have a Cito test score of at least that much." That's out of control. That's why that's changed. This is without prejudice to the fact that the final test, which is still being taken, can be regarded as an objective second criterion, as a kind of second opinion. On this basis, a school needs to take a closer look at the opinion it has adopted and can come to a review. Some of the opinions have done the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u87	We all agree that the old system had gone a bit crazy here and there, but the Secretary of State is actually not answering my question. Why did we not then choose to fight the excesses of the beautiful system we had and to polish that system with small steps and make it better? That didn't happen. The Secretary of State has chosen to throw it strictly overboard and instead to work with a system in which 23% of the opinions are wrong, which is almost a quarter of the votes. Then it is logical that this has created uncertainty and uncertainty, which is why we are debating here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think Mr Beertema and I disagree on the diagnosis. We disagree that 23% of the opinions are wrong. In 23% of the cases there is a discrepancy between the school advice and the score on the final test. That doesn't necessarily mean that the school advice is wrong. The final key is a snapshot. He may lead to an adjustment of the school advice, but sometimes there are very good reasons not to. A number of speakers have raised issues which I believe are simply not being properly applied. We have received signals from parents, from education and from inspection that the essence of the law is not being complied with. Let me give two examples. There are secondary schools that wrongly use other information when admitting pupils, in the placement decision. That's not allowed. So I think you should maintain that in those cases. There are also schools that say in advance: no matter what the final test indicates, we are not going to reconsider our opinions anymore. The law is very clear about that: that is the intention. I believe that we should act in cases like this where schools run counter to the law. It must be clear: if the law is not complied with, the inspection will take place. In my view, the inspection has taken up the signs of non-compliance with the legal frameworks it has received over the past year. We're not gonna wave the heaviest means right away. We first spoke to the school board and the competent authority. Where there has actually been an infringement of the laws and regulations relating to admission to secondary education, the competent authority has been requested to address this. In the vast majority of cases this has happened. If that does not happen, then an executive repair order can be given. At such a moment the inspection says: now you adjust it! If this does not happen then it can be dealt with by means of financial sanctions. As far as I am concerned, it must be clear that the law is the law and that it must simply be implemented. I therefore call on all parents and schools to report it to the inspection if there is a feeling of non-compliance. I will contact education and the parents when these kinds of signals are sent along that route, so that they know that those signals reach us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u89	The Secretary of State just said some very important things, which I very much agree with. It is clear that parents should report to the inspection. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform us again as a Lower House, for example in about a year's time, so that we can keep our finger on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yes. I think that's very relevant. We will have a more fundamental discussion next year around this time. After all, when the law was adopted, we said that we would not wait four or five years for an evaluation, but that we would do it in the meantime. We can then look at the situation on the basis of two rounds on the basis of the new law. Then we can consider whether it is necessary to adapt or update the law on parts in order to make them work even better. I will certainly take this point with me. Many of the concerns expressed by the Chamber may not relate to the category of 'unlawful or illegal', because in those cases it is clear and can intervene in the inspection, but it is much more about how the law takes shape in schools and how it is handled in such a way that it is best for children. I share Mr Van Meenen's remark that, even if we are talking about systems and about legislation and regulations, we must always be careful that we place children in a mess. We must always consider what is most important for individual children, what gives them the most opportunities and how we can ensure that the purpose of this law takes shape. One of the most important points is the discussion on single and multiple opinions. We must be careful to say that it is good that there will be more multiple advice. They will then become an end in themselves. For children, however, it may be very good to get a double advice when they are between Havo and Vwo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u91	The figures show a decline in the number of multiple opinions. I'm okay with figuring out what's behind it. I do not want to trivialize it, but sometimes it may be that primary schools in parts may get a bit better in providing good advice. For example, we do not see that they have become more cautious across the board. Let me give you an example. The number of full VWO opinions has increased in recent years. This may also mean that schools that previously gave children a HAVO or VWO advice are now more self-consciously opting for a full VWO advice. I do think that we should keep our finger on the pulse, especially since we also noted that school boards in some regions made the agreement last year only to work with single opinions. Then the question comes around the corner to see if giving a single advice is in the best interests of children. This is because it is easier for schools or because underbuilding returns play a role in this. Last year we took a very important step in terms of returns, an argument which was always put forward by vo-schools. We have adapted the inspection frameworks, which means that the faults or penalty points have been removed from the system in the event of a possible discharge. There is still a positive incentive. In my view, we must retain this incentive because we must also challenge schools to make the most of children. However, there can no longer be a school in the Netherlands that is being treated negatively because he gives children a chance with a double advice. In my view, therefore, vo-schools no longer have any reason to make this kind of arrangement with primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u92	The Secretary of State is now moving on to the underbuilding efficiency. However, I would like to mention the agreements between primary schools and vo-schools on merely giving individual advice. The Secretary of State says somewhat disguised that this might be undesirable, because we want to give children opportunities of course. Is the Secretary of State therefore prepared to go further and say that this is no longer allowed in the methods of placement? I've got a few in my hands now. It just says literally: primary schools only give simple advice. It shouldn't be possible anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. Look, a new face!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u94	I've been here for two hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u95	I don't think I've changed my judgment at all. I simply find it undesirable that this is agreed in advance and that multiple or double opinions are categorically rejected. I want to do a number of things in this area and that starts with informing primary schools. I did so last year in connection with the Ypma/Rog motion. I want to say to primary schools: no matter what your boards have agreed, if you think that a multiple or double advice is best for a child, then you are always entitled to give it. That's what it starts with. The second thing I want to do is to remind the schools that I think it is undesirable that this should happen and that it should be good, including with the new inspection framework in mind, not to make such agreements in the future. The third thing I would like to do is to make this a very clear point in the mid-term review of the law. I would like to say in advance that, if there is reason to do so, we should and should be able to amend the law on this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u96	It will continue to inform, wait and evaluate at the end of the year. At least that's not what the SP wants. I think we should simply say that we no longer accept this, that it cannot be recorded in the placement methods and that we are simply going to change that. The Secretary of State did inform us last year. Some of the schools have really not responded to that. And we're gonna do that again for a second? Of course, that doesn't make any sense. In the second period I am going to table this proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm going on to the same point. It is to be appreciated that the State Secretary wishes to issue a clear profit warning in any case. But isn't it clearer to draw a clear line now? The undesirableness is widely shared here, by the Secretary of State and by the Chamber. At the very least, there is reason to note that there has not been an all-in-a-minute reaction to this undesirableness by stopping this kind of agreement. It might then be obvious that we will be in a few regions for another season with this type of arrangement. Can't we cut it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u98	I've been clear about the unwelcomeness. I would like to see the approximation of legislation and regulations go hand in hand with the evaluation of the law as much as possible. In this case, we are already doing that evaluation much faster. I also want to prevent us from entering a process in which we are going to change legislation every six months or every year. That is not clear for schools and it only leads to more confusion. I have just indicated that I find the categorical exclusion of multiple opinions undesirable. I hope for a little better education, but if we still see after this year that this has not happened, I think it is right to resort to a heavier instrument, but not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u99	A formal legislative amendment is a long process with everything on and on. I can imagine that the Secretary of State does not want to change the law for every problem identified. But is the right to give multiple opinions de facto not enough ground to say that the exclusion of multiple opinions is simply not allowed within the existing laws and regulations? I ask the Secretary of State to respond immediately or in the second term. If the Secretary of State now says clearly and clearly that this should not be done, perhaps there will still be a group of schools going to court to pursue this, because this would not be right, because the Secretary of State would have misinterpreted this. But I don't think that's gonna happen. I therefore wonder whether a sharp and clear interpretation of the laws and regulations is not simply enough to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u100	Just as strictly legal: the law does not prohibit this. However, the fact that it is not prohibited does not mean that it cannot be in that other category of 'we find all this very undesirable'. The law requires primary schools to be free to give advice. Primary schools are therefore always entitled to give a single advice, even if agreements have been made at administrative level not to do so. I'd find it interesting to let it come to that. For precisely that reason, I say to primary schools that, apart from all administrative arrangements, they must give the advice that suits the child best. If such a situation would lead to a conflict, I believe that if a double opinion were given, a primary school or the parent of the child would end with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u101	Here, the fact that primary schools make the agreement with vo-schools that there will be single advice, even if they have the right to give multiple advice. The teachers then simply do what their school has agreed with the vo. The CDA wants these teachers and school leaders to be in a position to make independent assessments. I don't care if it's governed by law or otherwise. My point is that we make it very clear that every school is always free to do this. How can the Secretary of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u102	I fully agree with Mr Rog. He says it in slightly different terms, but I was just trying to walk along that same line: it's really up to elementary school itself. Last year Mr Rog also made this point, together with Mrs Ypma. I think it is right that, in the weeks in which the advice at primary schools is drawn up, we should make it even more clear to the school leaders and teachers that they should ultimately start from what is best for the child, regardless of the arrangements made at administrative level. Sometimes it's simple, sometimes it's multiple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u103	That's a fine conclusion from the Secretary of State. He lets primary education know that it can also give multiple advice. We are all in favour of this. However, such multiple opinions should be introduced into a computer system. The secondary schools built that computer system together. Only single opinions should be included in this system. What is the Secretary of State doing about this? That elementary school can give multiple advice, but that doesn't work in practice. The Secretary of State has just made a fine undertaking that parents will have to report things that are not in accordance with the law to the inspection and that the inspection will then take place. To what extent is this also covered by this category?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u104	The fact that it has a certain computer system is not my problem. It is not the problem of children who have multiple advice. The law is clear about this. When a child knocks on a plural advice at a secondary school, the school simply has to respect that advice, regardless of the system it uses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u105	Should the parents of that child, who in practice has a problem, even though it may not be a legal problem, report to the Education Inspectorate to call in additional support forces? Or do they even have to go through the legal route to get them right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u106	In this case, I would start with the inspection, because it is simply about the enforcement of the law. If there is a multiple advice, the school has to respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u107	A year ago, I asked for clear communication to schools that they have the right to multiple advice. It's a good thing the Secretary of State repeats that here. However, I do not want it, as the Secretary of State has just described, to come to a conflict. Is there another way to avoid conflict, but to ensure that primary schools can provide multiple advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u108	We do a lot in the field of communication. That starts with putting teachers and primary schools in position. They must give a professional opinion on the advice of a child. This requires school leaders and primary school administrators to keep their backs a little straight towards the vo or the drivers there, who may think it would be better or more convenient for them, for example because of the computer system, to get as many simple advice as possible. This also means that they have to sell no and not go too easily with it. It is therefore very important to communicate that they are about judgment and that they should not go too easily in other desires. However, I would also like to approach it. That has to comply with the commitments made. I will do this on an individual level but also at the level of the industry organisation, the VO Council. I think we'll come a long way. In cases where the inspection has contacted associations or regions after complaints and has pointed out that this is not in accordance with the spirit of the law, we see that the placement methods have been adapted. We've moved on for another year. I would be very surprised if, by now, not many more regions have already understood what is meant. If there is unwillingness, then we cannot rule out conflicts in advance. Maybe that should only happen once to show how the law is interpreted by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u109	The problem is that the children are the victims. So I'd like the Secretary of State to step up a little bit. Perhaps I will also ask for a ruling from the Chamber on this matter. Pupils with multiple advice have the right to be admitted at the highest level of that advice. High school has a duty to place those students there. For example, if someone gets a HAVO/VWO advice, he has the right to try the vwo, because the teacher sees that in him. The school therefore has a duty to place the child at that level. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u110	I disagree with Mrs Ypma on that point. A HAVO/VWO opinion is not a vwo opinion. It's a Havo/Vwo advice. This does not automatically entitle you to be placed at the highest level. The same applies to the duty of secondary education. Mr. Chairman. A second question raised relates to additional information, which should not be taken into account in the authorisation decision but which should be used. Vo-schools should not allow any other information to be taken into account when placing pupils at a certain school level. If the vo-school bases the placement decision on information other than primary school advice, then that school is in violation. As I have just indicated, the inspection will take place in that case. Some schools have indicated that it is undesirable that no additional information should be exchanged at all. This is the thrust of the motion referred to by Mr Grashoff, which also hinders the warm transfer of pupils. This is another point, I think, which has not been completely closed down in the law. I understand exactly what Mr Grashoff is saying, but I also think that the law on this point provides sufficient tools to prevent the abuse of supplementary information. In that case, the law provides a basis for intervention by the inspection and there is also a title for parents to ring the bell at that time. I think it is too early to put a complete ban on this at the moment. I also think that a warm handover will help students. Transfer of information on their abilities and interests and on the learning styles of the primary school to the secondary school in which they have applied may also be useful. My proposal is to give this point a very important place in the evaluation that will be completed at the end of the year. If it is really necessary to adapt the law to that, then I think that is the time to implement the Klever motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u111	Let me begin by establishing what we agree on, namely the warm transfer. Now the question is whether the warm transfer has anything to do with the admission. Isn't that where the cut is being made? In my opinion, that is the case. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? It is only when admission is involved that there is a warm transfer and the logic of the transfer of information in this context. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to look very closely at the current state of the law. As I understand it, Article 42 of the WPO speaks of a receiving school which must have an educational report and can be interpreted in such a way that it is the school that has been admitted in the meantime. Otherwise there is no question of a receiving school, but of a school that may become the receiving school. If this interpretation of the law is the right one, then there is no need to amend the law at all. Then there can simply be a clear rule of interpretation, in which one gets an educational report, but after the student is admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u112	There are sometimes cases where non-sharing of this information leads to a misplaced placement. Let me give you an example of learning path support. In some cases, the primary school is very capable of giving advice on this. However, I also regularly find that a primary school gives a child a VMBO advice without learning path support, while the receiving school considers that support is important and would like to give it to the child. Mr Grashoff knows as well as I do that not every VMBO school provides learning path support. Then you get the weird situation that a child placed might need extra support and that the school will find out too late. It is one of the examples that I say we should be careful not to go ice over one night to put a ban on it right now. I share your point and I really want to see if it can be done and perhaps it can be done within the current legislation and regulations you are referring to. I will also make that a major point in the evaluation that will be completed at the end of this year. However, we must be careful not to throw things away here in this Chamber that we will regret later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u113	The Secretary of State cites an example of which I can see the reasonableness, but that is already the exception contained in the Klever motion. So with each other we already had the understanding that there could be exceptions in these particular situations. So we do not disagree on that. So the motion doesn't ask for that either. Does this not mean that the obstacle can be removed by carrying out the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u114	It was one of the examples. I can mention a few more. I am more than willing to support the idea under the motion, but I would really like to see, if this leads to a legislative amendment, which I believe is necessary to put an end to this practice or at least to prevent abuse, or to do so at once. Otherwise, we will continue to work on the law every time, while it is extremely important for both primary and secondary schools to have a clear transition from A to B. I also think it is important that we have clarity in this respect and that we should preferably have one change, where we take a number of things instead of having a discussion over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u115	I'm just gonna get on with it. I understand very well that the Secretary of State prefers to change and lay down more things legally at the same time instead of doing that three times with small parts. If we regulate this legally, can the Secretary of State promise that it will be settled by 1 March next year when the school advice is to be issued? At least this year it won't work anymore. Let us agree that we are going to do it, but then we must also make sure that we are going to see whether we can record it in November or December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u116	I have to temper the expectations somewhat, in the sense that the evaluation can be here at the beginning of 2017. It is therefore not possible to change the rules a month later, also because this Chamber still has to give its opinion on changing the rules and on the evaluation. Moreover, it is not just this Chamber that has to decide on this; the Upper Chamber must also do so. It's been over for some time. However, I think it is important, if you change anything about this, that this should be done in good time so that schools can anticipate it. I admit, in view of the order of things, that we will anticipate a bit of some of the pain points indicated in the House of Representatives. This is one of them, but we just had a little debate on multiple and single opinions. That's one too. That way we can keep things parallel. If this is to come out of the evaluation, then we do not have to start thinking about how we want to do it, because then we will be one and a half years away. Then you can book some time. It is not arranged for 2017, but it is possible to arrange it for 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u117	To be honest, I think that's a bit of a shame. We now know what the bottlenecks are. The question is whether the Secretary of State can bring forward the evaluation. The Cito tests take place in April and May, so before the summer recess. Perhaps the Secretary of State can instruct the Ministry to get to work in the recess, so that we can make a decision already in September or October, because then the route can be started. Is that another possibility? Otherwise it will be 2018. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u118	Of course, we must not waste any time. I really want to speed up. At the same time, a number of Members of Parliament have asked for a number of things to be included in the evaluation. I have to go to schools, look at underlying ideas, ask why there is a shift between multiple and single advice, and see if there are any differences between the adjustment of advice to a socio-cultural background. It takes some time to do that in a good way. I believe that this process can be completed by the end of 2016 and that we can discuss it at the beginning of 2017. If we use the normal route, then we will have the debate at the beginning of 2017. If that is a reason to change things, we are going to think about legislation and regulations. Soon you'll be one and a half to two years away. During this process, I see an opportunity to do some preparatory work. However, I cannot promise that the evaluation will be completed after the summer. Questions have been asked about the basis of the school advice. Mr Rog pointed out that, according to reports, primary schools would take more often IQ tests from students to support the school advice. Mrs Straus also mentioned this. What does that even say? It is very difficult to make final statements about this too. Sometimes it can be very good that a school uses test results or tests of this kind to provide an expert basis for advice. That's what they did in the past. There's nothing wrong with that in my eyes. Maybe it doesn't have to be an automatism. A school could also choose not to take generic IQ tests. Some children are clearly on the basis of the tests and tests already in the apprenticeship follow-up system, while some children still have doubts about this. Then you can use the IQ test more focused. This is the freedom that I hope primary schools will take more and more and more in the future, and that they will also be aware of it. What does that say about elementary schools? That was a question from Mrs Straus. Well, I think there is some uncertainty here and there. Where schools have been able to hide behind the finals in the past, they are now being asked for a more professional judgment. Schools may still be searching and collect additional data for this purpose. Mr Rog asked whether I share the view that such an IQ test cannot be made compulsory. My answer to that is yes. I don't think parents can oblige schools to do that. Sometimes you come a long way in good consultation and a school can make that assessment, but here we assume the school's professional judgment. I do not think that primary schools should be obliged to do so. It is certainly not the case that a vo-school may use the IQ test to make a final placement decision. In the context of the multiple or single opinion, I indicated that I would bring the rules of the game to the attention of schools in primary and secondary education. This is part of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u119	I thank the Secretary of State for his explanation. I fully agree with him that schools where they have doubts about an individual child about what is best for school advice should use something extra. I'm in favour of that. That's fine. What we also see is that sometimes structural use is made of the IQ test. It is suggested that this would be because schools are indeed uncertain. We had the central final. Of course, that is also a standardized test. Next year's evaluation will be carried out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider to what extent the timing of that central final test plays a role in the need for primary schools to use additional tests to support the level? If we bring these two closer together, the final test might be that basis. Then the schools will no longer have to resort to additional tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u120	This is one of the key points of the law that we adopted three years ago, and I think it is appropriate to take a critical look at it, as we take the other key points of the law into account. Shifting the moment of decline undoubtedly has a number of advantages, but perhaps also some unintended effects. We need to take a good look at that. Another point, also in the category perhaps not illegal, but perhaps not quite at the level we would like to see, concerns the review of the elementary school advice after the final test. When the po-end test is completed at a higher level than primary school advice, the primary school should reconsider its advice. I would just like to make it clear that this does not necessarily have to lead to an amendment of the opinion, but there are signals about schools that say in advance that they do not want to change the opinion in any way. I have just said that we can act more strictly on this. I think we should look closely at how this review is carried out. Mrs Ypma and I also believe Mr Kuzu asked about the 4%. This 4% is out of the total of all children, a very large proportion of whom have received advice that is higher than the final test. A very large proportion have passed a final test which corresponds to the school advice. If we look at the category of which you say: for them the law prescribes that there should be a re-examination, which is about 23% of the total.................................................................................................................................................................. Here too, we must be careful not to jump to conclusions. On the one hand you can say that it happens too little, but on the other hand, if we all think that the final test, the old Cito-key, is a snapshot, then it can happen that it goes higher and the school still thinks that it has really good reasons to actually see the test as a snapshot. There may be many reasons why the opinion should not be amended. Mr Kuzu specifically asked for the evaluation to include the socio-cultural background. Do we see any differences in that? Do we see regional differences? Mrs. Ypma asked to involve the parents. She also asked whether we should not involve the parents in such a review. The law doesn't prescribe that, but in general, I always think it's okay for parents to be involved in drawing up school advice for their children. This applies not only to the review, but also to the 23% tail, which will then be reviewed in June, but also to the large group of children who will receive advice in March. I have a strong feeling that the schools where things are going well and where there are hardly any discussion with parents or tensions about the school advice are also the schools that parents involve at a very early stage, so that the advice for their children in group 8 is not a surprise, but much more in common and good consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u121	Indeed, I asked for a number of elements to be included in the evaluation to be carried out. In his answers, the Secretary of State repeated my questions, but my question is: is he going to do it now or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u122	Then I haven't been clear. I wanted to make a commitment to Mr Kuzu to include these elements in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u123	Then it'll be noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u124	To finish... I see Mrs. Ypma running to the microphone, but that's more your thing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mrs. Ypma is my thing, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad I'm your thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u127	Did I give you the floor yet? Yes. You have the floor, Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u128	Very nice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and I are pretty much on the same page. I would like to hear if he wants to include the socio-economic backgrounds of parents in that evaluation. The Secretary of State also states that the law does not prescribe parental involvement. Does he agree with me that there should always be a conversation if the results of the Cito test are higher than the school advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u129	I think that's wise. This is not only sensible for the Cito test, but also for all other opinions. There must be good communication between the school and parents on the preparation of advice and on the reasons for updating the final test in June or not. However, Mrs Ypma also asks whether I can guarantee that this is happening everywhere. I can't. I can bring it to your attention and I can talk about it with the schools and point it out to them. The law has no formal requirement on the basis of which a review is to be carried out. I don't have a title for the inspection to intervene if it doesn't happen. However, it certainly seems sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u130	We agree on that. We both think it's wise. However, can the Secretary of State not make an extra effort to ensure that every school that engages in conversation with parents when the Cito test is higher, in order to offer children maximum opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u131	I think I can meet Mrs. Ypma. We have discussed all kinds of issues that we say are not mandatory by law, but are actually about implementation and the way in which such a law vibrates. It is then about simple and multiple opinions, about the involvement of other tests and the independent judgement. If we are going to inform the primary schools, I think it would be a good idea to bring this point to the fore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u132	I have two completely different points, but for the sake of efficiency I call them both in one interruption. If I understand correctly, the question in the quickscan about the placement process has been put particularly at the vo-schools. Answers are given to the more formal question of whether cases have complied with law and rules. On the problem field we are discussing and the relationship between po, vo and parents is missing the parents and the po-schools. Does the Secretary of State intend to explicitly involve these groups in the further investigation so that we can get a better view of the stakes that are taking place? With my second point, I may be on slippery ice, but I'll mention it anyway. Suppose all the findings show that po-schools are not yet sufficiently equipped or have not yet sufficient self-confidence to deal fully with that school advice. What if they can't stand up to parents and vo-schools, after we've been able to tap out all these weird excrements? Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider further facilitation, both in terms of education in relation to the pabos and in facilitating primary education, so that that position can be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u133	The first question is about involving parents. The answer to this is: yes, parents and primary schools will also be involved in this evaluation. If the evaluation reveals that this is a major issue in primary schools, that they do not have sufficient strength to make that professional judgment really sound, and that also means independence from the pressure of parents or secondary education, then that is certainly a relevant point on which we need to find an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u134	I have one short question, Mr President. Perhaps that will prevent me from tabling a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u135	Those are words to my heart, Mrs Siderius. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u136	I'm still playing with the legal anchoring and the timeline. Is it possible for the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber about the possible timetable? When exactly is this evaluation coming? When could we talk about that? When could the legislative amendment be introduced and when could it apply? Perhaps it is also possible for the Secretary of State to write in the same letter what his intentions might be to amend the law. In this way we can think about it for a moment and I do not need to make a motion on this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u137	I think this is a good idea. I'll give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u138	Fine. We have arrived at your concluding words, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u139	We've had one year and we're at the beginning of 2016, a year with a new round of advice. They will be drawn up in the coming weeks. In May there will be the final test and in June there will be a review. I think it would be good if we continued to monitor developments closely and evaluate this at the end of 2016. In this evaluation, we will also give a serious place to the vast majority of the points that have been reviewed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u140	Thank you. This brings the Secretary of State to the end of his term. Is there a need for the members of the Chamber to have a second term? I see that's the case. I call Mrs Siderius. Every spokesperson has two minutes in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes the commitment made by the Secretary of State at the end. In this way we can quietly consider how we could regulate a number of issues as soon as possible. One point remains in this debate, namely that of the multiple opinions and the methods of placement. There are still methods of placement which state that only single opinions may be given. That is a real thorn in the eye of my group. We would like the Secretary of State to ensure that this does not happen again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has been included in different placement methods that primary schools cannot provide multiple school advice to pupils for placement in secondary education;]] [[Considers that the provision of multiple school advice can offer opportunities for pupils and gives them the benefit of the doubt;]] [[calls on the Government to stop allowing elementary schools to provide only single school advice to pupils and to inform the Chamber on implementation before 1 March 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius, Mr Ypma, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Grashoff, Mr Rog and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-275]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. I asked for two things in my term. On the first, the views and practical experiences of parents, the Secretary of State said that he will take that into account in the evaluation. I would like the second one to be even more precise, so that I can hold on to myself for the future when the results of that evaluation are available. If the Secretary of State really promises to do that, I will withdraw the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that on average pupils with certain background characteristics are more likely to be subject to under-advisation;]] [[Whereas this phenomenon may also take place in the granting or non-appointment of a school opinion after a review;]] [[invites the Government, when evaluating the Final Review Act, to also examine whether there are differences between pupils with different background characteristics in receiving or not being granted an update of the School Advice after a review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-276]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The bottom line is that the left-wing parties have created uncertainty by abolishing the Cito test as a matching instrument together with the school's advice. Only the school advice is now in charge. We have to note that 23%, almost a quarter of the opinions, are wrong. Only the low level of advice is accepted by placing pupils in a higher school type. That is not the case with the high-level opinions, because that would be unfair. I don't understand. That's the conclusion that scares everyone, at least I do. The low-policy solution is contained in this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decrease date of the central final test has shifted from spring (February) to almost the end of the school year (April/May);]] [[noting that the central final test can no longer be a matching instrument providing an objective school advice on further education;]] [[noting that this would require secondary education to develop its own admission procedures such as IQ tests and/or still consider the Cito scores;]] [[Whereas this leads to a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty in further education and, in addition, to a chaotic line of learning with sitting and draining;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward the (deduction) date for the central final test to the middle of the school year (February/March) and thereby to give the test the role of objective matching instrument, in addition to the school's advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-277]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u144	I'm filing this motion, knowing that the Labour Party is throwing any motion from the PVV unread into the trash can. I do not think that is a democratic principle. It does not make much sense for me to table that motion, because it will not be adopted. But my mandate as a representative of the people does not mean that I want to fail. That is why I continue to table motions, even though Mr Samsom has decided in his wisdom to never even read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. I said a few things about our order in the first place. That'll come back. Understandably, that has not become a major issue in this debate. But we have to talk about it, because the shuffle model as we know it is bankrupt in my view. I have two motions on this subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that secondary schools in primary school are prevented from obtaining and using tests such as the entrance test as a selection tool;]] [[Whereas these tests can be used to support the school advice, but should not be used as a means of selecting secondary education;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that tests in primary education can only be used in support of the opinion and cannot be requested by secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-278]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u146	My next motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State is in the process of developing and preparing a new funding system in education;]] [[Whereas the Dutch education system is characterised by premature selection;]] [[Whereas children benefit from a better transition between primary and secondary education;]] [[noting that the National ThinkTank has also made proposals to this effect;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in the context of the development of the new funding system, the desirability of extending and broadening the bridge period between primary and secondary education, and how this can be encouraged,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-279]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the good talk we had about the final test and the new rules on it. I think we can see that a good step forward has been taken and that, with some unevenness, there is widespread satisfaction with the new situation, except for the PVV. I also have confidence in the steps the Secretary of State has promised to take. On one point, I co-signed a motion. This concerns the issue of multiple opinions. I appreciate the Secretary of State saying, like a majority of the House, that it's undesirable. For our group, it is important that we also materialise and ensure that the single advice cannot be explicitly imposed on teachers who feel bound by it at the moment, hence my support for the Siderius cum suis motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for two fine promises. One relates to the fact that it can be reported at the inspection if the transition between PO and vo is not carried out in accordance with the law and that action is then taken. I think that's very important. The other commitment implies that the Secretary of State will take the time of the final test, both its pluses and its mins. However, the transition between po and vo in the Netherlands remains a very big step. Whatever we fix, that early selection remains problematic, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a sharp separation between primary and secondary education in the Netherlands as a result of the establishment of the education system;]] [[Whereas this separation, known as "early selection," may lead to problems in the transition from primary to secondary education;]] [[Whereas greater cooperation between primary and secondary education could make this transition less problematic;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the problems of transition from primary to secondary education can be overcome by further cooperation and/or intertwining of primary and secondary education and, in any event, to take into account in this study whether primary and secondary schools could be covered by a single flag, primary and secondary education should be governed by a single law and to what extent primary education teachers should be able to be used in secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus and Mr Ypma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the quickscan he has carried out, for the commitment to the evaluation and for his willingness to start preparatory work on legislative adjustments. It is a good thing that parents can report to the inspection in case of abuses. In my contribution, I referred to the 23% children with too little advice. I asked if there could always be a discussion between the school and the parents and the child about a possible adjustment of the advice. On this point, too, I have a wonderful commitment, so that my motion is not necessary. So I'm not going to file it either. Well, I do have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils can apply for secondary education on the basis of the school advice;]] [[Whereas there are regions where schools have agreed not to provide multiple school advice;]] [[Whereas a multiple opinion gives more room for the development of the child and the selection time is to take place later;]] [[calls on the Government to communicate that:]] [[providing primary schools with multiple school advice;]] [[to allow pupils with multiple school advice to apply for the highest of the two levels of education and to accept secondary school pupils at the relevant level of education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ypma, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Siderius and Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u150	Now that this motion is part of the deliberations, I would like to ask Mrs Ypma how to weigh the second part of the operative part. We attach great importance to mixed opinions. Suppose a primary school chooses mixed advice, isn't that a very important reason? What makes Mrs Ypma want to force schools to allow children to enter at the highest level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u151	In my first term, I spoke extensively about the fact that education on earth is to offer children opportunities and to give them the benefit of the doubt. When the primary school sees that a child is really in between Mavo and Havo, he sometimes gives a mavo/havo advice, because he sees that there is potential in it. Such a school then says: maybe this child is a bit of a late bloomer, but it still has development opportunities and with the right guidance and challenge in high school it can grow to that level. A school like that doesn't give that advice for nothing. In these cases, I think we should always give the child the benefit of the doubt and give it the chance to live up to it in high school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u152	Couldn't that have another perverse effect? Don't you get that parents of a typical mavo-child put the knife on the school's throat to at least make a mixed opinion of it, and then force the child to go to the havo in the vo? Don't we shift the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u153	I don't think so. I think we're offering opportunities here. We select very early in the Netherlands. Some kids really have more in them. They already show it, but it doesn't come out one hundred percent. Those kids have a right to show that in high school. Parents should be involved early in the future of their child. It shouldn't be a surprise. That conversation must take place on time. I share the vision of the parents and the education in this, because parents need to know where they stand and what their child has in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to note that the spokesmen and the Secretary of State agree on a number of aspects and on the direction in which we move and wish to move. The differences are sometimes a bit more in the tempo and the exact rigour with which you want to deal with things. That kind of difference can be bridged, I'd say. In view of his somewhat ambivalent attitude towards the previous Klever motion on the educational report, I have another question for the Secretary of State. Could he, perhaps in a brief note to the Chamber, comment on whether a proper interpretation of Article 42 of the Law on Primary Education does not already provide a sufficient basis to make it clear to the field of education that the educational report can only be provided after admission? That is, of course, with the grounds for exception to be taken into account; I think we can reasonably agree on this. In this way we shall be acting in the spirit of the Klever motion. I can understand why the Secretary of State did not introduce a change of law on that one aspect. It's better to cluster that. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the education inspection assesses schools on yield in the sub-structure, taking into account up- and down-flowing and the number of sitters;]] [[Considers that this indicator does not say much about the quality of the education given and that the assessment on the underbuilding return has undesirable effects, such as increasing mistrust between primary schools, secondary schools and parents;]] [[calls on the government to stop assessing secondary school performance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Siderius and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u155	This brought an end to the second term of the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State answer immediately? I see that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to all the motions, but I will do so after I have answered Mr Grashoff's question. He asked if we could give a more detailed explanation of his legal interpretation of the article he quoted. In the first term, I have already promised Mrs Siderius that I will publish some sort of route book which will show how the evaluation is going and so on. I can also explain this point in more detail. Then I'll go into the motions. Meeting the request in the motion-Siderius c.s. in piece No. 275 calls for an amendment of the law. At the same time, I think it is an important signal. I, too, find it undesirable. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Siderius. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it is sufficient for us to give a clear signal in all our contacts with primary schools and schools in secondary education in the coming year, and we can also regulate it legally by means of any amendment to the law after the evaluation, I would be able to deal with it. Then I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u157	If the Secretary of State doesn't wait but just talk, he doesn't invite any comments, but okay. Mrs. Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u158	I had to think about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u159	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u160	Communicating is fun; that's what we did last year. So that's really not gonna make any sense. In fact, the Secretary of State should say that he no longer tolerates this, even this year, despite the fact that the legislative amendment may not have taken place. If it is found in a placement guide that only a single opinion can be given, does the Secretary of State send the inspection or at least someone who has a fist on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u161	That would be my proposal. We will focus on these signals. I'll be in touch with Parents & Education. When we see these things, we will move on and give our opinion clearly, namely that we do not find that in the interests of children. If this motion assumes that we still have to change the law in the run-up to the evaluation on this point, I would say that I do not think that is desirable. In my opinion, however, these two things can be very much in parallel. We can give a clear signal. I see this motion as support in the back. Should any amendment of the law be required, it will be included in the overall round after two years. I see there's nodding. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mr Kuzu asked for an opinion on his motion on item No. 276. However, he also indicated that I could take this off with a commitment. I'm just gonna take this. I see Mr Kuzu walking to the microphone. I have reason to believe he's about to withdraw his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u162	If he doesn't, I'd like to hear a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u163	We have talked about this recently. If he does not withdraw the motion, she has become redundant because of this clear commitment and I must discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u164	Then the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u165	If the Secretary of State involves the investigation requested in the motion, I am prepared to withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u166	I understand that Mr Kuzu is withdrawing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u167	I just miss one more nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u168	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u169	Since the Kuzu motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u170	In the motion in part No. 277 of Mr Beertema is actually being asked to reverse an important part of the law in advance. I advise against this motion. In the Van Meenen motion on part No. 278 the government is invited to ensure that tests in primary education can be used solely to support the opinion. That is already the case. That makes this motion superfluous. I'm gonna dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u171	It also says that they should not be able to be requested by secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u172	The primary schools are about their own educational report and in it they decide what is transferred. In my view, an elementary school cannot be obliged to provide certain information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u173	I think it would be wise to point this out to the primary schools, because this happens on and on. I happened to hear yesterday that a school quit the entrance test because it is used in the schools in the area as a means of selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u174	I think that is a very undesirable situation and we must be clear about that in communication to schools. I'd like to take Mr Van Meenen's assignment with me. The motion in part No. I would like to advise you, or perhaps I could ask Mr Van Meenen to apprehend her? There is another motion, tabled by Mr Grashoff or by his predecessor, Mr Klaver, which asks the government to go into the secondary class and to make sure that the reduction in the number of broad bridge classes is avoided. This motion actually goes a step further. Perhaps Mr Van Meenen will find that the plan of action I have promised is insufficient. He could then always table this motion. I don't think we should get ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mr Van Meenen, are you going to hold your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u176	To be quite specific, my motion concerns, of course, the inclusion of this problem in the introduction of the new funding system. The question is whether the Secretary of State intended to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u177	This question is also raised in the Grashoff motion. I believe that we should be careful in our debates to ensure that, with new financial incentives, we immediately attract other undesirable effects to us. In the debate between Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog, I think this was the case. The operation for a new funding system has been launched precisely because we want to simplify the system, not because we make it even more complex. However, this is separate from this discussion. I shall come back to that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u178	I'll hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u179	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (31289 No. 279). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u180	Perhaps I could also tempt Mr Straus and Mr Ypma to vote in favour of this motion. 280 to be retained. That is a very far-reaching motion: it calls for an investigation into a system change that is far-reaching in many respects. I think you should always see if the system can be improved, but two investigations are already under way. First of all, the OECD has been asked to examine our entire system. The Education Council also writes an opinion on the flow of the system. All these themes come back to that. I would find it a shame to put another third investigation into that. That's not a research you're doing between the companies. Perhaps we can wait for these two major system investigations before taking another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u181	Can the Secretary of State indicate when he's expecting those two investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u182	The OECD study I expect this spring. I see my officials nodding in the banks. The opinion of the Education Council will come in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u183	I expect conclusions from the OECD study that fit in with our motion. I therefore wish to continue this motion now. During the debate on this subject we shall consider to what extent it is appropriate to put our motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u184	At the request of Mrs Straus, I propose her motion (31289, No. 280). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u185	In the spring we will see what is going on with Mrs Straus' vision, and that is interesting. This is a very fundamental discussion and I think it would be good to have it with her. The motion in part No. 281 of Mr Ypma c.s. I have to advise against it, because of the tail of it. The government is asked to communicate that primary schools are always allowed to provide multiple school advice. I totally agree with that, so that's what we're gonna do. It is also true that pupils with multiple school advice can always register at the highest level of the advice. I too think it would be good to let the parents and students know this, for example through the communication of Parents & Education. However, the venom is in the tail, namely that these schools are then always obliged to adopt children at the highest level. This would mean, for example, that a child with a HAVO/VWO advice should always be accepted by a categoral gymnasium. Of course, that's a little crazy. A HAVO/VWO opinion is not a vwo opinion. It is an advice to go to a wide Havo/vwo bridge class. I can imagine that, after a good conversation with the child and the parents, broad school communities dare to put this student in a vwo-class with a HAVO/VWO advice. If it doesn't work, that kid can always go back to the havo, because they have that in the house. If, however, we implement this very strictly and very clearly along the lines of this motion, I think we are facing a lot of problems. I don't know what this means for counseling to primary schools either. Mr Rog made this point and I thought he had a point. I therefore advise against this motion. That is what I am doing with the motion in part No. 282. We have adjusted the yield in the substructure in such a way that the perverse stimulus that was in it is out. Learning outcomes are an essential part of the assessment of the quality of education. Moreover, I do not find it surprising that schools are given a positive incentive to get the most out of children and offer them maximum opportunities. Where it doesn't happen, the inspection has reason to have a serious conversation with that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-20-tweedekamer-3.u186	On Tuesday we shall vote on the remaining motions. A lot of them have been taken out of business. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence. After the suspension we have a brief arrangement of work and then the debate on Professor Maat.
