ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u1	I welcome the initiator, Mrs Lodders. She's in "K." It already looks very natural. I would also like to welcome her support, Mr Martin Kouwenhoven and Mrs Margje Knaapen. They're in the second row. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment in trade union K. She comes here all the time. The Secretary of State will act as advisor to the Chamber tonight. Tonight the first term of office will be on the agenda. I wanted to give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Ulenbelt, but I see that Mr Van Weyenberg is on the microphone. I assume he has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have an order question. Today is the first term of the Chamber on Mrs Lodders' own-initiative proposal. After the recess, we'll proceed with this bill. On the same subject, there is a bill from the cabinet. It is important for my group in the coming weeks to know whether the applicant, from the coalition party VVD, will continue with the initiative proposal, whether the cabinet will continue with its legislative proposal or whether a small attempt at reconciliation is still taking place. Sometime tonight I would like to know, because it means a lot to my group, for example in view of amendments. Are the two proposers gonna try to find each other or not? So my proposal is that somewhere today we get an answer to my question from both the Secretary of State and the initiator, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u3	This is not entirely an order proposal. It is a point of substance that you can put forward in the first period. You have plenty of time for that. You even have ten minutes, Mr Van Weyenberg. If you really wanted to make an order of business about this debate and its timeliness, you should have done so in the course of the work. I think it would be a good idea to start the first term. You can make all your points there, including what you have just inserted. It's just part of this debate. It seems to me to be a very logical question, given the point you want to make. You will have ample opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u4	I will certainly take this opportunity, but my question is whether it is intended to come up with a single legislative proposal tonight or whether we should continue to work on two legislative proposals. That's my order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u5	The point is that we will then be different from what was agreed earlier in the order of business, because then there should also be a first term for Mrs Lodders this evening. It's not a deal. She's not prepared for that either. With all due respect, Mr Van Weyenberg, you have made this proposal a little late. If we were to adopt that proposal, we would have to organise the debate very differently than we planned. In the end, it is up to the Chamber, but for the record, that is also my role here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u6	That is self-evident, but I am happy to present this proposal to my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u7	It will not surprise anyone, but my first question when I stand behind the speaker's chair is also about this. Whether I get the answer tonight or later, I don't care if I get the answer. That's what matters to me. That is why I do not support Mr Van Weyenberg's proposal for order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u8	The CDA Group also has this question. It will also make a brief contribution to this question tonight. It would be nice if tonight we did not ask the applicant of such a fine bill to give an answer, I say with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u9	Let's start the way we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u10	I fully agreed with you, Mr President. I have questions about this, too. That seems logical to me, given both legislative proposals. However, I do not need an answer to this tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u11	I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u12	Then I shall continue with what I had just begun, namely the announcement by the first speaker of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u13	Mr. Chairman. It was clear. Mrs. Lodders has a bill to solve a problem and the Secretary of State has a bill to solve the same problem. Of course, that's a bit odd. Moreover, it also concerns coalition parties; the ladies meet regularly, I suppose. My first question is therefore why they could not find a common solution to solve this problem together. I am very curious about this, especially after Mrs Lodder's remarks on questions from the Dutch Financial Journal last Monday. Mrs Lodders replied as follows to the question as to whether the two legislative proposals could exist side by side. "Yes, although it ultimately yields two different pension products. That offers extra choices, but also complicates it. We can combine them, for example, by sticking the collective element of the cabinet in my proposal." I assume The Financial Daily is quoting her correctly. I wonder what that is, which is "sticking the collective element in it." How then, I ask the applicant of this initiative law. She didn't think so before, did she? In response to the opinion of the Council of State, she said that she felt that it was not necessary to include collectivity elements, because this would not reflect the individual nature of premium and capital schemes. My question to the applicant is whether she has changed her mind. Should we look at the bill as it stands, or will the applicant come after her remarks in The Financial Daily with a letter of amendment to stick the collective into it? I'm very curious how that sticky stuff could look. Does the Secretary of State see this sticky job as an opportunity? Or is the initiative law going to be so similar to the bill we're going to deal with after the recess, that it's going to be the Lodders/Klijnsma Act? That can't be done by state law at all, but okay. Does the Secretary of State have any ideas for adjusting a sleeve? It sees the Lodges Act as a lex specialise. That is something very special, but I really do not understand it at all. If both laws were to be passed, we would get a variant with the spread of prosperity and adversity in investments and a variant where that is shared collectively or not shared collectively, I ask the Secretary of State. Can all that exist side by side? I'd like an explanation from the applicant and from the Secretary of State. Of course there's a problem to solve. The low interest rate is devastating for pensions, has not been indexed for years and has even been reduced. Before the crisis, the funds had some 700 billion in cash. Despite the crisis, this has risen to 1,400 billion. So we're gonna double it. That is also very logical, because the returns of the funds are good, but they need to be poor and therefore they turn out much less than they could. The bill seems to offer a solution to some of the injured, future pensioners. In the case of capital agreements and premium agreements, the amount saved on retirement is converted into a lifelong fixed benefit. That benefit depends on the calculation rate at that time. If the rate of calculation is 1 percentage point higher, the pension will be increased every now and then between 12% and 15%. Now that interest rate is around 1%. People who are now retiring have in the past been charged a 4% interest rate. They are now suddenly faced with a real pension which can be between 25% and 40% lower than the promise. And, yes, that's a very harsh behavior for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u14	I thank Mr Ulenbelt for his speech. Indeed, it is hard for many people who also have a pension. There is no doubt that returns from pension funds are so hugely good. Quite apart from the fact that we are in a serious crisis again in recent months and we do not yet know the results, I ask him what the return of the ABP was last year as stated on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u15	You don't have to look at the returns for the last month or the past year. The point is that during the entire crisis period the yields were such that they were in the order of 5%, 6%, 7%, 8% over that period. Otherwise, it cannot be explained that the funds' capacity has doubled in crisis time. They're forced to count poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u16	I will not deny that we have a fantastic pension system, but we are in severe weather. We must not deny that either. I think it makes sense to face this. The rate of return of ABP for the various quarters of last year adds up to less than 2%. We have to face that, too. It's just a fact, a hard truth. It is not the return that many pensioners had hoped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u17	If you're gonna retire like this, you're gonna undermine trust in the system. We see that happening around us. It is understandable that Mrs Lodders and the Secretary of State should come up with a solution. Their solution is to invest it, after you're retired, with the retirement pot you built. If you can do that, there's theoretically the possibility that if your pension was a little too low, this will be pushed up. However, there is also the theoretical possibility that the opposite will happen and that it will become lower. Once you're retired, the amount of your pension depends on the investment result of the club you're in. Earlier I called that a poker pension, others call it a casino pension. The difference between the two legislative proposals is that Mrs Lodders can swing very quickly and that the Secretary of State has a spring on the swing which makes it a bit less swinging. The characterisation of both types of pensions must be that it is a floating pension. The swing is interesting, but at an older age it often becomes a problem. The swiss life feeling that many of those insurers have presented is going to make way for a daily, nervous look at the AEX, because it's going to determine what my pension is going to do next year. I wonder whether pensioners and future pensioners are waiting for this. They are often in the situation that they cannot earn extra money and that care costs will be higher rather than lower. They also have a variable pension. Then getting older will be a lot less fun. Those fluctuations can be large. We've seen simulation studies of Ortec I admit they're just simulations and that no one can predict the future in which the pension goes down 2% in more than half the years. That's not very good. What can you do about these fluctuations? The Secretary of State says in her proposal that you can start saving. You better be able to do that! You can also adjust your expenses. I won't bring up a vegetable garden now, we've done that enough times. The individual people must begin to absorb these fluctuations again. I'm very sorry about that. Maybe the two proposers can convince me. We have had a lot of e-mail over the last few weeks from people who want a rematch. They would like to take up this adventure with their retirement, but I do not see anywhere in Mrs Lodder's bill that she is offering that rematch. Can pensioners, with the pension capital they have left, change into the Lodges scheme, as I call it? In order to have the maximum effect of investing, you should make a choice around the age of 40 if you want to phase out risky investments or continue. The Secretary of State's proposal provides for this, but not the initiative proposal. Why not? Surely it makes sense that if the decision to raise your pension investment can take place when that is relevant? Anyone who does not take this decision is therefore, according to the applicant's reasoning, worse off than anyone who does. Then you're about 40, 45 years old, and you have to make this decision, with a future that no one knows how to predict. Is that gonna end well? I'm holding my heart. The real problem is how we deal with the discounting of pension fund liabilities. I am not going to go into this in detail tonight, but we must have a different system for this. If we do this properly, we do not need both legislative proposals at all. Finally. In Mrs Lodder's bill, there is still a little certainty, and I do not understand why it says: "The pension continues to be paid in euros for participants." Well, that's good. By the way, I think it would have been even better if you had put "money" there, because you can't predict this either, but the pension continues to be paid in hard cash. The big question is, of course, how much, how high and how long?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u18	I want to mark this moment anyway! Mr Ulenbelt does not want any more guilders, but is also happy with euros! That's a happy day for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u19	The mistake that makes my social-liberal comrade to complete the confusion is that he thinks I agree with quoting a liberal. That's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Ulenbelt. We will not call you comrade in this Chamber for the time being, but a gentleman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator, Mr Lodders, for this legislative proposal. It's always a lot of work to make an initiative law, so compliments to her. This is a solution to an urgent problem. My group has had a lot of e-mails and phone calls about this problem. This initiative proposal offers an additional option and the possibility of a higher pension for around 1 million people with a contribution and capital agreement. The VVD stands for more freedom of choice. You don't have to choose a flexible pension, but you can choose one. The choice of a fixed pension, as in the current system, also remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u22	I am glad that Mrs De Vries says she is in favour of freedom of choice. I do not think she is happy with me that, under pressure from the social partners, the law of the Secretary of State provides for an important moment of choice for the participants, in the last letter of amendment. Is that also Mrs De Vries' opinion? If you are arguing for freedom of choice here, I assume that is also true of the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u23	I think we're talking about this bill right now. The other bill is still under discussion. I think it would be a good idea to take that point into account. I am particularly looking at this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u24	I will stick to what Mrs De Vries has said this evening when she deals with that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u25	I am afraid that Mr Van Weyenberg will not find me but Mrs Lodders here again. At the moment, people are obliged to convert their accumulated pension capital into pension benefits at once. With current interest rates, this is a low pension. People don't have a choice. I told you, people with this bill can opt for a flexible pension. The VVD therefore wants this bill to speed up. A lot of people have a problem right now. The VVD has already raised this problem and tabled a motion for this. Let me say again: this offers an additional option. My group believes that this is important, because it is a simple and practical solution for many people. But in recent months and in the past year, people have also converted all the pension capital into a pension benefit. I think Mr Ulenbelt has just mentioned this. They have done so in accordance with the current rules. This means that these people have a low pension. The pension is now fixed and cannot become a flexible pension. To what extent is it possible and desirable that these people should be able to ask their pension-payer for a flexible pension? I ask this question not only to the initiator, but also to the Secretary of State. According to the VVD, the present bill has three advantages. First of all, there is no fixed purchase time that can cause people to suffer for life if interest rates are low at that time. Secondly, investments need no longer be phased out during the construction phase. This means that the capital saved by the people will be invested for an average of 15 to 20 years longer. Thirdly, benefits can also be passed on at the benefit stage. This is also confirmed in several studies. This shows that there is a chance of a higher pension. I said earlier that the VVD considers it important that participants have options. That brings me to the question of why the present initiative proposal does not include the choice of a so-called high-low construction. You will then have a higher pension benefit in the first years and a lower one later, as is now included in the Pension Act. Has the initiator deliberately chosen this? How does she feel about a high-layer construction? The VVD is considering tabling an amendment on this point. Participants may opt for a pension in units at certain times, i.e. at the beginning of the holding, at the termination of the holding and at the date on which pension rights are effective. The VVD would like to know from the initiator why there is not also a moment of choice at the beginning of the reduction of investment risks. This is a crucial moment when it comes to whether or not to invest. The VVD would also like to know how often the flexible benefit can be adjusted. Does this happen every year or can it be done every month? The possibility of changing from a flexible pension based on units to a fixed benefit in euros is limited to once. Why did the initiator choose to do so? Why wasn't it chosen for, for example, twice? Pensioners should rightly inform participants about the consequences and risks of a choice for a flexible pension. On the basis of comments from some political parties, safeguards are included in the change note for participants. Pensioners should now also advise participants on the risks associated with flexible pension benefits. What impact does this have on meeting the professional requirements of the Financial Supervision Act? A flexible pension cannot be implemented by a PPI, a contribution pension institution. Can the initiator indicate whether she considers it desirable for a PPI to be able to offer this product? If so, what could possibly oppose this? How could this possibly be resolved in the initiative proposal? All in all, the VVD sees the present legislative proposal as an adequate solution to a pressing problem where pension practitioners can and must quickly get to grips with it. I have one more point. Another form of temporarily circumventing that one moment of purchase is the retirement cut. During the last general consultation, the VVD asked for attention for the retirement cut. We are still getting signals that the pension cut is not offered by all insurance companies. I would ask the Secretary of State if she has discussed this with the insurers in detail. If so, what is the outcome of this? If it hasn't been discussed yet, why hasn't that conversation taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u26	Mrs De Vries asks a question about the financial advisors and their capacities. But if Mrs De Vries had been a financial advisor herself and if I had to judge her, she would have failed. In her contribution, she speaks of a chance of a higher pension, but she does not say that there is also a chance of a lower pension. A decent financial advisor is supposed to do that, isn't he? Now the VVD is not a financial advisor and in some respects it is a good thing, I think. However, when discussing this bill, Mrs De Vries should also stress in detail that there are also opportunities for a lower pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u27	Of course, there's always a risk of a lower pension. That is also in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. It is not the case that it is mandatory for people and that they have to opt for a flexible pension. If you don't make a choice, you're going for a permanent pension. I think that's very important. At the moment, it is important, because of the low interest rates and the low pension benefits that people get, that they can have that choice. It's not mandatory. It is a choice that is offered to people who are building up their pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u28	I understand that, but Mrs. Lodders has suggested a retirement cut before. That was also a solution to this problem. The people who have carried it out in recent years have not improved, as they were supposed to, but have become worse because interest rates have declined further. You can choose "That's nice" but it can also be a choice for the noose. I think Mrs De Vries should tell that when she tells this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u29	There is an essential difference with the pension cut because you can invest in the period before you retire. You can also invest in the period after you retire. I think it is important that studies by Ortec Finance and LCP have shown that the risk of a higher pension is increasing. We certainly should not deprive people of the opportunity to make a choice. You can opt for a different variant. That's fine, but I think we should offer people this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u30	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating the author of the initiative proposal. That is always a very time-consuming thing to do. I also congratulate the staff, because I know that this is never written by the MP alone. It is always a special time to defend that in box K. I look forward to the debate with Mrs Lodders on this. As is well known, D66 has been advocating reform of the pension system for a long time, because the current system is raging. That is why we must move towards this new pension system as soon as possible, towards a system that is much better suited to today's and tomorrow's labour markets, in which promises are clear, not more than what can be achieved and in which the problems in the current system are eliminated. One of those problems that many parties in this Chamber have long been concerned about, but certainly mine too, is the weaknesses in the current available premium schemes, such as the fact that after retirement you will not be able to invest, which means that you still miss the chance of a better pension and the fact that you now have that one moment of purchase, which, if you are unlucky, has a disadvantage with interest rates. Mr Ulenbelt is quite right to say that this means that a degree of security is being handed in. But that is, in my view, a nominal false security, which does not provide the indexing of pensions. The chance of a good pension increases if you give people with an available premium scheme the chance to invest and not have to do that conversion on that one purchase moment. Indeed, we have already temporarily restored the retirement cut to give people that opportunity until the entry into force of either the cabinet proposal or the initiator's proposal. That too is not guaranteed to benefit people, because no one knows exactly how interest rates will develop. You do offer people the opportunity to choose. You're gonna have to tell people about that. I would like to join with the VVD spokesperson's question on the functioning of the new reopened pension cut so far and on the talks of the State Secretary with the insurers. If you can't invest after retirement, you're actually a thief of your wallet. Any pension expert can say that this increases the risk of a higher pension. That is why this Chamber, also by D66, has been calling for a solution to this problem for years. A long time ago, the cabinet bill was announced. Mrs Lodders of the VVD was also worried for a long time. It has turned this concern into an initiative legislative proposal, for which it pays tribute. Hail because it put the pressure on the secretary of state. Contrary to the original plans, the Secretary of State's bill has been extremely delayed. My group was extremely unhappy about that. As far as I am concerned, the fact that we are now in a rather special situation that, after the recess, we are dealing both with this bill in the second term and with the Secretary of State's bill is also to my mind to be noted. The fact that there was an initiative proposal has, in my opinion, put further pressure on the process at the Ministry. That's good. For that, compliments to the Secretary of State, uh, sorry, to Mrs. Lodders. That was exactly the wrong order! However, I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State for speeding up the process and finally for two proposals. That makes this an extraordinary situation. This means that we are now discussing in the Chamber an initiative legislative proposal from the largest coalition party and a proposal from the cabinet, which has been designed differently but has the same purpose. I find that highly uncomfortable. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. In recent months, I have called for commonality in procedural meetings, because we now have two legislative proposals which both have their strengths and weaknesses. They are two rough diamonds and I would like to cut them both, but it would be best if the initiator and the cabinet would come together to come up with a single legislative proposal. That is why I call on both sides to do so. Then we have one legislative proposal, which hopefully brings together the best of these two proposals. I would like to receive a response from both the applicant and the Secretary of State. If we continue along the path of these two legislative proposals, then there are a lot of questions that I would like to put down here. Mrs Lodders said earlier that she was willing to go to the table with the Secretary of State to see if there could be one legislative proposal. Is that still her? Maybe both of you can do this during recess? That seems to me the ideal time to make these two legislative proposals a single legislative proposal. And how are we going to vote on both legislative proposals later? It is still unclear in what order we are going to do that. What happens if they both get hired? I would like to have a closer look at this from both the initiator and the Secretary of State. Can they, in their opinion, enter into force at the same time? Suppose we vote here first on the Secretary of State's bill and then on Mrs Lodder's bill. Is Mrs. Lodders willing to withdraw her bill if the first bill makes it? Or will it continue and come up with a letter of amendment? How does she see that trajectory? Mrs Lodders' bill contains a number of very good elements. For example, it chooses to work from a sort of default of the current situation. People then have to opt for the variable benefit. So that gives people a very explicit choice. I find that interesting. It is also extremely prudent, cautious. The benefit is calculated initially on the basis of risk-free interest rates. In case of a higher investment result, the participant will receive more than what was originally announced. Underpromise, deliveryr. That's too little promise to be able to give more. This is a good motto for the pension sector, which has unfortunately suffered the opposite in recent years, namely overpromise-underrender. However, I also see a number of bottlenecks in the initiative proposal. I would like to receive a response from the author. For example, the macro-long-life risk, the chance of getting older as a whole generation, is deposited with the insurer. My group's concern is that it will then require a buffer storage, because yes, that risk has to be borne and that cost will then come back to a lower benefit for the participant. It is deducted from the pension. Now you can say that people can choose for themselves, but it does raise a number of questions. I would like to receive a response from the author. There is also, of course, a chance that an insurer may even go bankrupt if life expectancy suddenly rises extremely rapidly. Everyone gets in the drip from the rain. The Secretary of State's bill contains a separate provision for this, with the macro-longevity risk being more with the participant. The participant may then choose to bear that or not if he opts for a variable benefit. I would like to receive a response from the author on this point. Doesn't she think that's an improvement? I am considering tabling an amendment on this point if the author does not submit a letter of amendment. Although, as far as I am concerned, Mrs Lodder's legislative proposal is stronger than the Secretary of State's proposal in terms of simplicity, I do not think it is perfect in terms of communication either. For example, the participant must choose between a fixed pension and a variable pension, where the fixed pension is actually the starting point. But, yeah, how do you make that choice if you've never studied pensions before? It's technical stuff. That fixed benefit is the default, the starting point, but in certain cases I can imagine that the provider of the pension thinks: that interest rate is now so low; I would actually like to advise something else to the participant. What's that about the bill? Shouldn't you add some sort of advisory right or even stronger advisory obligation for the performer towards the participant? It can then say at a certain interest rate itself: participant, I actually recommend a different choice. This kind of thing is in another way in the Secretary of State's proposal. This is complicated, but I would like to know what picture the author has. The applicant also claims that there is no advisory market if choice is introduced. I have my doubts about that. The applicant trusts that the pension administrator can always give the right advice. How does this actually relate to the ban on commissioning if the exporter is always going to do so indirectly and if it is not given a separate independent advice? I ask Mrs Lodders to reflect on that. In the State Secretary's bill, the participant was able to choose to switch from pension executive at the time the benefit phase starts. That is an important piece of freedom of choice with regard to D66. Now I am very critical of the last step of the Secretary of State to limit that choice for participants under pressure from the social partners. It did so in its letter of amendment. However, this whole freedom of choice is not included in the VVD's initiative proposal. Is Mrs Lodder prepared to add this to her letter of amendment? If so, I look forward to that, of course. If not, I am very curious as to why she is introducing a much less far-reaching degree of freedom of choice here than the Secretary of State of the Labour Party. I might have expected that the other way around sooner. Finally, I come to the possibility of investing in retirement through collective schemes. The Secretary of State also offers the possibility of a collective part in its legislative proposal. For example, it is a company that makes a kind of collective which pays pensions during the benefit phase. We have already been able to read a number of times, also in Het Financieele Dagblad, which was just referred to, that Mrs Lodder would have liked to have made it possible to invest in collective schemes. She said that in Retirement Pro last Monday. However, she has not gotten to it. At least it is not in the bill that we are discussing today. Now I wonder if she is prepared to add that. However, I can say that my group is considering an amendment to add this collective variant of the Secretary of State's bill to the initiator's proposal, because it gives you a collective pot, and that has advantages. Is Mrs Lodder interested in such a collective arrangement? That's the question I'm explicitly asking her. Is she considering a letter of amendment? I will conclude, because I see that I am at the end of my speaking time. The Secretary of State's proposal also offers the opportunity to spread the progress of pension benefits over a number of years. Not to divide money between generations or individuals, but because of the assumption that if you lubricate a little bit, you can dampen too many shocks. I am always very reluctant to spread it, because it quickly divides all kinds of risks among people in situations where it is not always desirable or explicitly intended. Here, however, this happens within its own pot. Knowing that people don't like a discount, that would be a nice idea. I would like to hear from the initiator why she did not choose to do so and whether she is planning to do so in a letter of amendment. I'll come to a summary. We are dealing with the urgent problem of a number of weaknesses in the available premium schemes. I am glad that we even have the luxury now, but it is also an uncomfortable situation that two legislative proposals are trying to put an end to that situation. Both legislative proposals are not yet perfect, so I hope we can make both legislative proposals. Above all, however, I hope that the petitioner and the Secretary of State will be able to ensure that, when we are expected to discuss this further in the week after the recess, we are not talking about shaving two rough diamonds, but that there is one shiny diamond in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u31	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is grateful to the author of the legislative proposal for the initiative it is taking. It follows a very consistent line, since 2013. It is to her credit that she has taken the trouble to make an initiative proposal. Really: our compliments for that! It is already paying off, because the government has now finally put forward a legislative proposal. There is a very special situation: this week the Chamber will deal with this initiative proposal and in two weeks' time the Chamber will deal with the government proposal. These are two legislative proposals for the same purpose. This form of dualism is new in this Chamber. The CDA Group would prefer to see one legislative proposal, which is the compromise of both legislative proposals. The petitioner's bill has simplicity: shop law only applies if the pension scheme is placed with an insurer and by default you have a fixed pension, while you have to consciously opt for variable. The government's proposal is a little more comprehensive. In particular, the spread of shocks, as pointed out by colleagues, and the calls for solidarity are addressed by the CDA. However, the CDA shares the criticism of the Nederlandsche Bank that the use of two project interest rates will lead to a very complicated system and that there should therefore be one project interest rate. That is why I ask the proposers to do the following. Is Mrs Lodder prepared to sit down with the government in the next week to come up with a joint proposal? Is the government prepared to sit down with the petitioner in the next week to come up with a joint bill? It should include: one project rate, a simple design, a conscious choice of variable and standard the option of a fixed pension, important points such as the way of communication as expressed by the colleague of D66 and a limited distribution of shocks, and the right to shop with insurers alone. Finally, I would like to ask the petitioner whether she has thought about how people who have already bought can still make use of their pension in pension units. I am referring to a one-off possibility for existing cases to switch from fixed to variable. I'd like to get a reaction to this. And if necessary, let the petitioner also consult with the sector. A large group of people would like to use this, but they can't. The CDA Group doesn't think that's fair. She thinks it is important to know that, even for all those people who are now following this debate at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u32	Mr. Chairman. The PVV Group also warmly thanked Mrs Lodders, a Member of Parliament from among us. It has indeed put pressure on the government by coming up with a proposal itself. And yes, then you come into a situation, as many people have already mentioned. At least one person or one group in the Chamber thinks the government is too slow and says: then we do it ourselves, then we just use our possibilities. That is why Mrs Lodder deserves two and a half compliments. Mrs Lodders' bill creates the possibility of a flexible pension. We've heard a lot of reflections. Actually, a lot of wind has already been taken from our sails. I think that many people agree with the questions we have asked, at least that many questions from the different groups are similar. Reinvesting is also made possible by expressing the pension not in a fixed amount in euros but in pension units. Mr Ulenbelt also recalled this, not in guilders, but in euros. Of course, we would prefer to see the guilder, but that is another discussion. If pension units are chosen, there is no longer a single fixed purchase moment, but pension capital is transferred until the units are needed. That's good. Moreover, the possibility of opting for a nominal pension continues to exist. So it is an additional option and we love it. Who's against freedom of choice? That too has been mentioned. We have the word "freedom" even in our party name. That also applies to Mrs Lodders. The motion dates from 3 December 2013, I believe, so that's two years and three months ago. It's wonderful that so much work has been done at that time. Again, my compliments. We have wholeheartedly supported the motion. I think she was widely supported. Very few MPs did not support it. Our questions are about another issue of pensions. They're about security. Pensioners, both pensioners and people who are moving towards retirement, want security in particular. Employees who are currently building up pensions want to control their pensions in particular in order to provide security for later. In that light, I have a number of questions. How much support is there within the target group? Is this measured? Who still trusts flexible pension benefits in the current uncertain time? After all, two years in advance, you do not know how high the benefit will be. Are investment risks too high when there are poor investment results within a calendar year? In my opinion, these are plausible questions and it is up to the initiator to answer them in her first term. The proposal converts pension capital into units at the pension starting date. We've already talked about that. The pension is calculated on the basis of a fixed number of units, the equivalent of which moves with the investment results. The amount of the pension allowance in euros I repeat a number of things as an introduction to the last questions.... is influenced solely by the difference in actually achieved return and the calculation rate used when determining pension units. I read that in the proposal. The bill therefore also provides that the benefit can be adjusted annually. How does this relate to the government's plans to take a longer term as a starting point, namely five years? Is there any insight into the difference? The participant would like to be able to rely on something. That's clear. The last thing the pension participant wants is uncertainty. Mr Ulenbelt has called it a casino pension, you can also call it a stock exchange pension if it really goes wrong. The latter is a matter of concern: what if the investment results are poor over the longer term? Don't we have a chance of a massive retirement? The PVV Group has a positive basis, but has a number of questions about the risks. We look forward to the answer. We also look forward to the government's bill, which is already in place. We are curious how these could possibly be put together. Many questions have been asked about this too. I won't tire the Chamber anymore. We look forward to hearing Mrs Lodder's response as initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u33	Mr. Chairman. I thank the applicant for the initiative. It's always a special moment. I hope everyone enjoys it enormously. A great deal of care and time has been spent on it and, as Mrs Mulder said, it has been preceded by a long journey. It's taken a firm bet. Also the employees who have sat on all the lyrics: here is a word of thanks. Today is the day to talk about the proposal. This is a special moment, because there are two proposals. It's already been memorized. We may get an initiative because the government doesn't succeed. Then we have a proposal that we are offered through an initiative. However, I have never seen this before. By the way, it is a similar initiative, but not identical. That makes it even more complex. If we accepted both proposals, we would get different products that aim at the same thing. That is my first question to both the applicant and the government. The product, I'm just saying, isn't that simple. After all, we propose to continue investing after the pension date for a higher benefit that was previously fixed and for which you had a purchase time. You're gonna need a few sentences to explain to a participant what happens in that case. And if two or maybe three different products are going to emerge, it does not seem very easy for a simple participant with a pension capital or a contribution agreement. Then you have a collective product and perhaps two individual products. I don't want to make it any more complicated than it is. So I'd like to fly it off another route. What does the applicant and the government think about that? In the end, it does not seem to me to be the goal we are aiming for with each other. In my opinion, this objective is pursued by many in this house: it is sometimes a shame to be totally dependent on one moment with pension capital and on the contribution scheme, while it is possible to get more out of it. In short, that is what it is all about. By investing, one becomes less dependent on that purchasing moment and thus less dependent on the interest rate. Moreover, interest rates could be very low for a while; others are right. You're taking a risk with that, too. I do not hear very much about that risk that an individual participant is taking in the government's proposal, which is collective. There is mainly a higher pension and not a lower pension. People are well-mannered beings so they always like to hear that, but I think it is wise to emphasize the other side of the story better. So this question is also addressed to both: would the applicant and the government wish to respond to this? On page 8 of the applicant's explanatory statement there is such a list of an example variant, e.g. 2. That goes up and down. And my experience from the hundreds of e-mails in my inbox and from conversations with people, is that you never really hear from them when their pension, their benefit or their AOW is indexed, but if it goes down anything. That can also be different in proportion: more up or less up doesn't matter, but a little bit down and Leiden is in trouble. That feels different, too. We all remember the tragedy of the Wul (Law on the Unifying Wage Concept), just as separate from the pensions that are not indexed and the suffering suffered by some funds by a reduction. I remember that this involved €67.10: a thousand e-mails in my inbox. I would nevertheless like to reflect on this, because this variable pension is a fixed benefit that is certain, whereas a variable benefit could go up, but it could also go down. There's a question for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u34	I was so attentive to your speech that I did not see Mr De Graaf; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u35	I thought I'd give you a hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u36	It's okay. I don't blame the chairman for looking at Mrs Vermeij rather than at me. In addition, I do not want to ruin Mrs. Lodder's party, but does Mrs. Vermeij find people whose pension is falling whining? Some people's pensions have fallen by 17% if we can believe emeritus professor Van Prague, which I believe are good calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u37	No, not at all. I certainly don't think so. I find it extremely painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u38	Okay, but I got the idea from Mrs Vermeij's text that when it goes up, you don't hear anyone, but when it goes down a little, my mailbox is full. It also says 'a little', while in many cases the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen dramatically in recent years. I got an unsatisfied feeling about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u39	Well, that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u40	...and I would like to give Mrs Vermeij the opportunity to restore that image. I do not think these people are whining, because they really have to do with a heavy fall in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u41	No, what I was trying to say is that this proposal could lead to higher and lower benefits. I think we all agree on that. In fact, the examples in the applicant's explanatory memorandum indicate this. I also believe that the applicant has a duty to point this out. People will therefore need proper information. That is another question that I have to ask the applicant. In the chapter on administrative and financial burdens, it is actually pretended that very little would happen, but I think you should give extensive and good information on this proposal. The moment of opting for a variable benefit can lead to a variable benefit, and a variable benefit not only goes up but can also go down. Given the burden, the lack of recovery capacity of older people and the increase in healthcare costs, this is quite a risk. We have all referred to this in various debates. That's a risk you have to make clear to people. They still have to be able to choose, but you have to make it clear to people. That was my call. In this respect, this is not just a hooray story, although the risk of a higher benefit may be slightly higher. You can point that out to them. However, it can also go down. We don't know how it goes and we don't know how the interest rate is going. I should like to put a few more questions to the applicant. The Council of State's main criticism was on the subject of "pension units." That was unclear. In fact, the Council of State was quite clear about this: delete the idea of pension units and make it something else, similar to the government's proposal, so just a benefit. The applicant didn't do anything about it. She's done something with the other criticism, I have to say. But not with this fundamental criticism of the proposal. Why not? What is the good element of the government's proposal? Perhaps this is an invitation for an introduction in which they will come closer together. That's kind of my seduction tactic. Is it true that the applicant's proposal does not have a right to shop? What's the deal with that, exactly? I am not entirely aware of this, not even in relation to the government proposal. On page 5 of the explanatory statement there is a mysterious sentence that you could explain in many ways: "Concretely, this means that a participant can choose to build up his pension in whole or in part in pension units." Analogous to Mrs De Vries' question: does this mean that you could also vary in height or is this phrase meant for something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u42	I try to point out where Mrs Vermeij stands in the beauty contest between the two legislative proposals. A number of my colleagues and myself have said: "Get the best out of both legislative proposals." On some points we find one legislative proposal better and on others. So far, I've only heard her talk about shopping law. I am also pleased that Mrs Vermeij wants more shopping law than in the initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u43	No, you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u44	Maybe I didn't get that right, that would be a shame. Are there any points on which she considers Mrs Lodder's initiative law to be better than the government's proposal? In other words, what elements of Mrs Lodder's initiative proposal would she like to give a place in the government's proposal? Or does it choose purely for the government's proposal, period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u45	That's a complex question. I will respond very quickly and very briefly. No, I'm not in favour of shopping law. I think that is a fundamental discussion that belongs elsewhere. This is already a fundamental bill. I think we are going to do something very fundamental, which is extremely complex. I would really like to deal with that subject another time. I think that the default option in the applicant's proposal is a very good one, which I think is clearer and clearer than the government's proposal. On the other hand, I also think that the collective variant in the government's proposal has its charm. I know that there is a need for this, especially in a number of large companies. But the apparent simplicity of the applicant's proposal is also very good to me, although I have a number of questions about pension units as a concept, as a variant to work with. This concept sounds very simple, but I do not think it is. This is an attempt to answer Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u46	I thank Mrs Vermeij for that. If I understand correctly, she ends up making the same appeal as many colleagues: put this together, take out the best of both worlds. Is Mrs Vermeij going to make that call very explicit? I heard Mrs Mulder make that call. I've been heard making that call. Is the Labour Party going to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u47	Sure. At the beginning of my speech, I was talking about the undesirable situation that we end up with two adopted legislative proposals and different products. I do not think that this is desirable in view of the pension participant. However, I would like to leave it to the applicant and the government to find out how they get there. It seems extremely undesirable to me to work at the end of the journey with different products that aim to achieve the same goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u48	We share that. I find it uncomfortable that it was also behind the point of order with which I began to say that we are now faced with the choice. This is it. After the recess, hopefully we will move on quickly, because we need to move forward quickly. Should the opposition parties now all be putting a lot of energy into bins of amendments to try to make these two legislative proposals look alike? I am also looking at the other coalition party. Mrs. Vermeij, your coalition colleague, Mrs. Lodders, is in trade-K. From the duo that the opposition in pensionland always has opposite them, one is now in trade-K and the other is behind the cathedral. What role does Mrs Vermeij see for herself to enforce this? I am a little afraid that we can ask all of this here, but at some point we are simply confronted with the fact that this is happening or not. I find that a very uncomfortable position, also given that this is extremely technical. If I am going to amend it, I have to do it extremely carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u49	I understand. Moreover, I do not feel that inconvenience, because I think that the call here is made in common, well-heard. So I'm relaxed in that. The bond with my coalition companion is extremely good. The link between the liberal who is in box K and the social liberal wing is also good in another way. So I don't feel uncomfortable about that either. I think that we can look at both legislative proposals in a fairly broad consensus here with great nuance. If the applicant and the government listen carefully tonight, they will also get a number of things out of it that the Chamber very much agrees on. I think this is clear. The administrative burden is a challenge because we are talking to the VVD here. This is done simply, while it is a complicated product that requires a lot of explanation. You're gonna have to do different things for different participants. The assessment is made that this will not be so much, but I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that. The same applies to extensive information, and I have a specific question which has already been raised by one of the previous speakers, Mr Van Weyenberg. The pension administrator is not there for the financial planning of the participant. That can be a very interesting question, because at some point you have to choose whether or not to take the risk. Who's gonna help you with that? So my question to the applicant is who is going to help the individual participant make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u50	Mrs Vermeij outlines a palette of future options, while I think she also forgets a few elements. At some point you can also choose between different risk profiles, i.e. the way in which you invest after your pension. Mrs Vermeij rightly speaks of good information, but it costs money. So that's gonna go away from retirement. Now we have also had the proposal of the association of financial advisers, because of course they are on the finch rope. They propose and passerby that advice on pensions be deducted from the tax. The greater the choice, the more there is a need for advisors and the greater the pressure to deduct it from taxes. How's the PvdA in there? Are we going to stimulate this industry or is that an industry that we really do not need and do not want in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u51	You always know how to find me for more employment, but we do have our preferences in that. I'm worried about this, too, because this is about choices. I think that this is a little too light-hearted in the explanatory statement. By the way, the default option is very clear. If you don't want it, you know what you're up to. That is a great advantage, unless the government convinces us that this is not the case. Anyway, we'll find out after the recess. Moreover, tax deductibility seems to me to be an extremely bad idea, but I hope to hear more from the applicant. I have some concerns about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u52	Mrs Vermeij is not optimistic that the initiator and the cabinet come together, bearing in mind what is being exchanged here tonight. I hope, of course, that she is right. I am trying to find a constructive form that will give us time as a Chamber. Would the initiator agree with the question I put through Mrs Vermeij, namely that in a week's time the applicant and the cabinet will let us know if they want to find each other, so that we do not hear it until we continue to deal with that law after the recess? I am trying to respond constructively to my concern, which I expressed at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u53	I understand this question, because it is also a question which cannot be answered only when the applicant is being answered. That is about the same time we are going to deal with the government's bill and we are going to vote on it a week later. I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg wants to have an earlier moment when he hears that progress is being made. I think that's a sensible question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u54	Thank you, Mrs Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u55	Mr. Chairman. Also of 50PLUS compliments on the initiative proposal of Mrs Lodders and her staff. In many respects, she has clarified her legislative proposal. Thank you for answering our questions. As a result, the duty of care of the pension provider has been extended. That's profit, especially for the participants. 50PLUS agrees with Mrs Lodder that it is good to quickly find a solution for people who have to buy their pension at extremely low interest rates, but we still have a number of questions. What exactly does the applicant's proposal add to the government's proposal? What necessary or urgently desirable elements are added? What are the main advantages of the initiative proposal compared to the government proposal? Could the petitioner make them systematic and point-by-point? Which of the two proposals is the fastest to implement? Or can we expect a fine twinning of both proposals, as most colleagues have asked? With a variable pension a better pension result can be expected in most cases by investing pension capital. At present, however, we are in a low-interest environment that could last for a long time. Why does the applicant only opt for long-term risk sharing rather than investment risk sharing? Does this not leave them with the possibility of achieving a better pension result? Can the individual pension benefit no longer be subject to pressure on the pension fund and possibly too much on the pension fund? Does this proposal offer sufficient guarantees to avoid excessive or excessive fluctuations in variable pension benefits? The answer to that question is decisive for us. Of course, the AOW benefit always offers a guarantee at the bottom, as the petitioner stresses, but that is a very poor consolation. Once again, I would like an extensive reply from the author. Flexible pension benefits in pension units are by definition a more risky pension product. Benefits are indicatively reflected by the pension provider in an optimistic, expected and pessimistic scenario. On page 16 of the report, we read in the answer to the question from the Labour Party that it is not really possible to indicate what can happen with a flexible pension in a very pessimistic economic scenario. Why not, if only approximate? It seems 50PLUS important to be able to estimate where the soil is theoretically located. On page 14, the petitioner states that the bill allows for a benefit limited to the bottom by opting for a pension benefit that is partially fixed and partially flexible. Together with the AOW there is a certain income security, says the petitioner. That is correct, but if one chooses only a flexible allowance in pension units, there is theoretically no limit at the top, and that is fine, but not at the bottom either: ooh! Or is there a range within which the equivalent of pension units in euros can vary? Or reworded: how variable can the pension benefit be in Mrs Lodder's proposal? That's another important question for 50PLUS. A flexible pension benefit can achieve a better pension result, but it is therefore a more risky product. Much of the responsibility is placed on the participant. I understand that from a liberal, but how are the risks to the participant kept understandable, manageable and socially acceptable? 50PLUS believes that there should be a proper balance between adequate pension income on the one hand and adequate security and protection on the other. Can the author respond to that? If participants do not make a choice, the bill provides for a nominal payment in euros. Why does the author choose to do this? Is it not better to leave the default option, the default option, to the pension administrator, so that it can be based on the characteristics of the participant population? Is it not the case, as the government states in the explanatory memorandum to its bill, that a legally binding default may result in a payment form being prescribed that does not fit the participant? I would like to receive a response from the author. The bill allows participants or former participants to convert the accumulated pension into pension units at their own request to the standard option in euros. The application must then be made at the latest at the time when the pension law enters into force. The petitioner makes this a member's own responsibility, but why aren't pension administrators obliged to make this offer? Couldn't that be part of the desired somewhat heavier duty of care? 50PLUS welcomes the applicant's decision to extend the duty of care for pension practitioners. Pensioners should advise members and beneficiaries on the risks associated with flexible pension benefits according to the letter of amendment. This obligation applies to members who report to their pension provider that they wish to switch to a pension based on pension units. The pension executor then critically examines whether the pension product fits the personal and financial situation of the members. This requires a considerable additional effort on the part of the pension administrator and, compared to the original legislative proposal, it entails costs. Is there an overall picture of the costs that could be associated with this advice? The final section talks about limited implementation costs, such as communicating and advising participants. Can the author explain this further? Finally, I would once again like to thank Mrs Lodders warmly and wish her success in the further examination of her legislative proposal. Let us work together to ensure that either this proposal or the government proposal, and preferably a merger of the two, is quickly in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-34.u56	This debate will continue at a later date, to be specified by the Court. I would like to thank Mrs Lodders for coming. Of course, she's a member of the Chamber, but she's in a different place now. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, as well as Mrs Lodder's official support.
