ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Mei Li Vos on behalf of the Labour Party. Speaking time is two minutes, as always with a VAO, including the submission of possible motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had a few moving weeks because of the possible acquisition of PostNL. PostNL rejected the offer yesterday, but the danger has not gone away yet. We have discussed this extensively in the Chamber. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that PostNL's Board of Directors once again rejected the bid from Bpost;]] [[whereas another company may at a later date make an attempt to take over PostNL;]] [[whereas PostNL is still of major public interest to the Netherlands, both because of the universal postal service (UPD) and because of employment;]] [[considers that the UPD should be maintained and implemented by a party directly addressed by the Dutch Government;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the UPD can continue to be guaranteed for the Netherlands and what options are available for this purpose, stating that UPD's revenues are primarily intended for the purposes of the implementation of the UPD in the Netherlands, including a reduced return that is lower than the current 11.1% applicable to the return on sales;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on the impact of this and on the financial and logistical implications of this in the light of the forthcoming policy vision on the post,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that PostNL's Board of Directors once again rejected the bid from Bpost;]] [[whereas another company may at a later date make an attempt to take over PostNL;]] [[whereas PostNL is still of major public interest to the Netherlands, both because of the universal postal service (UPD) and because of employment;]] [[considers that the UPD should be maintained and implemented by a party directly addressed by the Dutch Government;]] [[considers that this would also be the case if a future PostNL board agreed to a future friendly bid;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the desirability of taking a 10% share in PostNL, possibly coupled with special powers for the public shareholder;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the desirability of the acquisition by the State of the Stichting Continuiteit PostNL, whereby by means of an amendment of its statutes this foundation can be put under government control;]] [[Invites the Government to report to the Chamber before Christmas on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-131]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. PostNL is a listed company. The Supervisory Board and the Management Board have also decided to reject the renewed bid. That is their right and perhaps even a sensible choice, but that is entirely up to them. After all, the government is not a shareholder but only a stakeholder. From the stakeholder's role, we have studied whether a possible takeover would lead to unacceptable risks for the consumer and thus for the implementation of the UPD. For us, there have been no demonstrable risks. We will probably not support the motions that are being tabled on the introduction of protection structures. Another comment: it is nice that D66 now joins this debate. We have missed them and are curious about their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have been a spokesperson on this dossier for ten years, and I have always warned against further liberalisation. Unfortunately, I came too late into the Chamber to stop this with a few MPs. I believe that companies such as KLM and PostNL should never have been in private hands. That must be just state-owned companies. They are the largest private employers in the Netherlands. They're of national importance. Unfortunately, we are now in a second best course: we cannot do more than stop some things and minimize the damage. That's why I signed some of the PvdA's motions. Unfortunately, I have to leave it at that. I'm very sorry that we're not doing any more to protect real primitive Dutch companies. What I find even more scandalous is that, once again, I want to say that the market has been liberalised and an uneven playing field has been created. There is no level playing field at all! Then, of course, you must never liberalise. All the countries around us are giving state aid, which may be affecting our companies, and perhaps they are already doing so. Blessed day on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. We have been talking intensively recently about the possible takeover of PostNL by bpost. The CDA has always stated that it is important for us that the Postal Act can be properly implemented in the future. The universal postal services must continue in a good way, without reorganising foreign takeover parties being passed on to the Dutch inhabitants, which may lead to a rise in postal prices in the long term. These are all effects that we do not want, which may result in job losses here. That is why we had great difficulty with the bid of bpost on PostNL. We have expressed these concerns here. As Mr Graus said, many years ago, because of European policy, we began to liberalise markets. The countries around us have not done so, which has put the national strategic importance of a great deal of investment in the Netherlands at risk. We have also seen this in the acquisition of KLM by Air France, and we see that also happen in other markets. I am thinking here of the division of energy companies. Foreign companies then buy up our companies. It happened, you can find some of it, but as a CDA we want attention to the national strategic importance. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. Unfortunately, the Minister refuses to implement it, because he believes there are a number of opportunities in it. I think the Chamber should continue to look for the brackets that we can find. That's worth it. Let us be proud of our Dutch companies and protect them at times when they really have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. I couldn't be at the AO, so I'll make some short points here in all modesty, also because a lot of things have happened over the last few days. Sorry about that. PostNL finally rejected the offer, and Bpost accepts it. Looks like you can say: end well, all right. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that in recent days, especially on a sort of soap opera, a kind of ghost play, it was beginning to appear to be a symbolic political discussion, in which PostNL seems to be hiding behind Minister and Chamber. There were also reports that the Minister would have been briefed on developments in August. My question is then what is the situation and, if the Minister is prepared to answer that, why the letter of bidding has not been made public, so that we could also have made a substantive assessment rather than just deal with the political question of whether you are for or against the takeover of a private company. If the Minister is prepared to answer that, I would be very grateful to him for that. I can tell Mr Bosma that we are not in favour or against a takeover, but that we do want to be able to assess the consequences of such a takeover. For that it is necessary to know what is involved in this takeover. We in the Chamber did not really get a complete view of this, for example because the letter of bidding was never made public. The introduction of protection structures, without knowing the content and the risks, seems strange at D66. Not only because it is a private company, but also because the staff have rightly pointed out that this acquisition partner may be a much less bad one than those who are going to report in the future. I wonder what this Chamber will say and do. For now, however, we are particularly reluctant. Thank you very much for allowing me to put these two questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	The Minister can answer immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Verhoeven, who was unable to attend the discussions on this subject because of circumstances. He asked if I was updated by Mr Van Gerven van bpost in August, as Mr Van Gerven claimed in an interview he gave to newspaper De Tijd in Belgium. I've never been in touch with Mr. Van Gerven. Mr Van Gerven did send me an e-mail on 4 December, in which he said: we have never been in touch and I would like to speak with you once. So he himself confirmed that I never had any contact with him. I also read somewhere that it would have been said that I would have put him under terrible political pressure on 6 November. Apart from the fact that I never had contact with him, I was in New Zealand on November 6th and doing very different things than Mr Van Gerven or bpost. I've received two motions. In the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 131 I am asked to investigate how the UPD can continue to be guaranteed and report back to the Court. The developments in recent months have given me reason to reconsider the guarantee of universal postal services. I switched that with the Chamber, too. When we look at the situation, when we look at the situation, when we look at the situation, when we look at whether it is all well arranged, or when we still have to put our finger on sore spots in the light of recent developments, it is useful to look into the issues mentioned in that motion. I will take as much of the findings as I already have in the letter I promised to send the Chamber for Christmas. Things that I need more time to figure out, I will include in the evaluation of the UPD and the policy vision that comes with it. That will be at the end of the first quarter, beginning of the second quarter. In this way, I will be able to implement Mrs Vos' motion. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Mei Li Vos c.s. in piece No. 132 the government is asked to examine whether we as a State can take a 10% share in PostNL and whether we can put the Stichting Continuiteit PostNL under government control. I would like to address both points. The first point is something I find undesirable. We have the Memorandum on Participation Policy for participations. It's been exchanged with the Chamber and it's been established. It says that our line is that if there are interests that need to be secured, we want to do so through laws and regulations and that it is not the intention to start taking interests in companies as a State. This concerns general policy. As regards the idea of taking a 10% participation in PostNL as a Dutch State: I said I would feel it would be a step backwards if the Dutch State stepped out and the Belgian State stepped in, but I also think it would be a step backwards if the Dutch State stepped out, stepped out and then stepped back in. This is also not in line with the process that we have consciously followed here in the Netherlands for a number of years. For both these reasons, I find it undesirable to do this. That's why I advise against this part of the motion. In the second part of the operative part of the motion I am asked to bring the Foundation Continuiteit PostNL under government control. That foundation is a private instrument. It is also important that such private instruments are available. These foundations also appear to work well in practice. I think it would be a wrong development to put that foundation under government control. Moreover, this is contrary to European law. The European Court of Justice has ruled in a TPG case, in the sense that it is not intended to do so. For these two reasons, I cannot accept the second part of this motion either. For me, that is the reason for the motion in part No. 132 by Mrs Vos c.s. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	In particular, I would ask you to examine more closely why this could or could not be done and to include the environment, the Member States. After all, the Netherlands is the only country that has no share in its own postal service. In the Netherlands, too, there are enough foundations in which the government participates, as the State participation note also shows. I mention Holland Casino and there's another foundation in the gambling market that we were in for all kinds of reasons. If this motion is adopted, I would therefore like more comparisons and arguments as to why we should or should not do so, including in relation to abroad, than the Minister is now presenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	Holland Casino was a public company. If this is linked to a foundation structure, this situation is not comparable to private companies whose shares are on the stock exchange, but which have nevertheless seen reason to create a Foundation Continuity. I think it would be very crazy to put a Foundation Continuity under your control from the government. Moreover, I have already said that this is contrary to European law. For those reasons, I really don't think we can do this. Something we can't do, I don't want to investigate. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mrs Mulder has said that the Dutch interest has come to a halt because of liberalisation. I do not share Mrs Mulder's view. Of course, she was talking about energy. In that area, we have liberalised. We have a very well-functioning energy market in the Netherlands, where there is plenty of competition between energy providers. The transport of energy to customers has remained in public hands and can therefore be guaranteed. I therefore believe that we have managed this well in the Netherlands in the energy market and that we will benefit from this liberalisation. You see the same thing in the telecoms market, which we also liberalised. There is also excellent competition in this area. We have three fixed networks and four mobile networks in the Netherlands. There's plenty of competition, and we all benefit from it. We also benefit from the liberalisation that has taken place in the postal market. The Dutch rates for the business market are at €0.25. In no other European country is it so cheap. The Dutch business customers have unprecedented opportunities to choose from services. They can choose time-critical delivery, where it is clear exactly on which day the product should come. They can also opt for non-time critical delivery, which is even cheaper. They can leave the printing to, in this case, PostNL. They can also leave the billing to the company. I believe that business customers in the Netherlands really benefit from this. That is probably why those business customers have said that they greatly appreciate PostNL's independent survival. The Dutch parcel market is the most innovative and developed throughout Europe. We therefore also benefit from this liberalisation. External researchers looking at the company say that it is an exceptionally efficient company. Because there is no government behind it, like lucky with most other companies, there is no safety net from the government behind the company.The company is challenged to the maximum to be innovative and to attract and retain customers. I believe that this is something that we all benefit from as a result of liberalisation. I have already said more: PostNL is a very efficient company with large growth potential in the parcel market and it can make a profit on the UPD within the margins we have offered for that in the law. I think there is a good future for the company PostNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	I propose that we vote this afternoon on the motions that have been tabled. I thank the Minister. Now that he is here, we are going straight to the report of a general consultation on Energy.
