ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators and the support for the third time. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u2	I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop. It is customary to use about a third of the time of the first term for that and that was then seven minutes. We have just agreed that we are going to try to keep up the momentum during the examination of this bill and at the same time to deal with it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the initiators and the Secretary of State for responding to the questions. That's always enlightening. We are sympathetic to this proposal. There is still one point left, and that is its funding. It seems like a bit of an open-ended arrangement. If there is a need for hvo or gvo at a public school, do the initiators think of a kind of minimum size of groups that need to be served? Or is one student enough? If that is the case, funding will be a major problem. At that point I like to get clarity from the initiators. What do they have in mind? I mentioned the point of indexation earlier; just the financial picture. If that can also be adequately answered, I will give a positive advice to the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we would like to thank the initiators for their commitment to this proposal. This proposal may not be in the news every day, but it is very important for the teachers who give GVO and HVO. In our view, it is also a piece of appreciation, recognition and assurance of their work. I think it is very important that the quality of this education is guaranteed through this proposal. Mr Bishop mentioned it at first, he is somewhat more concerned with the history of history that this has been enshrined in the law since 1857. I think I can give my group a positive opinion on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for replying in the first term. For two centuries, the law has stated that public schools offer the opportunity to receive religious and philosophical education for children whose parents so wish. This provides the opportunity to talk about the meaning of faith in daily life and the meaning of faith in actuality. In addition, children learn to develop their own vision on this. With structural funding under the Law on Primary Education, the funding is also in line with the intention that has traditionally been enshrined in the law. This is important for the survival of religious education and humanistic education. The continuity of this legislative proposal ensures the quality of the teachers exercising this profession. This continuity ensures that young people want to invest in this by being trained for this profession. For them, the uncertainty is removed that subsidies are suddenly stopped, threatening them to lose their jobs. This initiative law is a modest budget but makes a major difference for the future of humanist and religious education in particular and for public education in general. This bill is a support for public education and can therefore count on the PvdA's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I have already said that I appreciate the fact that colleagues have taken this initiative. There's always a lot of work in it. Thank you very much for that. However, we have fundamental objections to the legislative proposal before us today. I'd like to go into that in a moment. In addition, it has become clear to us during this legal process that this is actually about open-ended financing. Mr Bishop referred to this as well. If more parents start using hvo and gvo, this can be at the expense of the lumpsum cost of schools. That is at the expense of the money that can be used for regular education. This is something we certainly do not want. However, as I said, we particularly have fundamental objections to this bill. In this spirit of time, it is not appropriate, in our view, for separate philosophical and religious education to be paid for by the State in public schools. This does not lead to greater freedom of choice for parents. In a way, it limits freedom even by influencing the character of public schools. Parents who choose public education consciously opt for this neutrality in teaching their children, because it in their eyes leads to greater solidarity and understanding. The opposite is the case when we take children out of class to be taught there in that one philosophy of life that favors the parents of that group of children. After all, especially for parents who choose a specific direction, we have special schools. They were created specifically for that purpose. Why else should we have special schools? Then we might as well rest all schools with hvo and gvo and thus serve parents. We might as well abolish Article 23 at the same time. Then we're done with that, too. As far as the VVD is concerned, HVO and GVO cloud the freedom of education. That is why it is important that public education remains genuinely public education and is not mixed with special education. At this point, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 50 of the WPO, the competent authority of a public school must allow its pupils, within school hours, to receive separate lessons on a specific religion or belief;]] [[noting that this is at odds with the neutrality of public education, where general philosophical education in a broad sense should be at the centre of all children;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a bill to delete Article 50 and related articles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34246-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry for my voice. That didn't get any better during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u8	Be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u9	I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the initiators. Compliments. However, we are still not convinced that, if there were a problem in public education with regard to religious education, this initiative law would solve this problem. We believe that a formalisation of religious education, whereby children choose one form or another and are given religious instruction separately from each other by regular paid spiritual ministers, is at the expense of the public character of public education. Education now provides for the beautiful profession of philosophy, which is given by its own teachers, who are also competent for it, with the whole class together and without falling into groups because one group of Protestants-Christians wants to be formed and the other group of Islamics or something else. The profession of philosophy is for everyone, given by their own teacher, and not by a local minister who is not primarily a teacher but still more shepherd of a local herd. This gives a different approach and ambition than a factual acquaintance with the great world religions and beliefs as we would like them to see. And that is why, as I finished my first term: leave public education public, with a wonderful curriculum world orientation and leave religious education to the special schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. Public education is not characterised by the removal of all philosophical influences on education. That is impossible. Every teacher, every parent and every MP has a philosophy of life or a vision of the world. Public education is characterized by the fact that everything is offered and that there is free choice, because that makes education neutral. This means that GVO/HVO, in which parents and children can voluntarily choose whether they want to have extra lessons on top of the permanent subject of religious movements, strengthens public education. My only concern in the first term was whether Gvo/Hvo could replace the regular lesson on religious movements. You can't do that. The core goal 38, in which all children in the Netherlands learn about all religious movements, must be maintained in all public schools and in all special schools. In the first instance, I was convinced by Mrs Ypma's reply that this is the case and that it will remain so. Give the children the chance to hear more about religions and beliefs that they want to learn more about on a voluntary basis. There is a wide range of options and GVO/HVO contributes to greater mutual understanding, integration and tolerance in our society. It is clear that, on the basis of these considerations, the Christian Union fully supports this initiative legislative proposal. Parents ask for it. Teachers in public education appreciate it and there are competent teachers gvo/hvo available who teach with heart and soul about what drives them the deepest in life. I thank the initiators for their excellent work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u11	That brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. I see the initiators can answer right away. I give the floor to Mrs Ypma on behalf of the initiators. I leave the distribution of the answer of course to the initiators themselves. Then I'll ask the Secretary of State to give his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u12	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Thank you, too, to all colleagues who consider the attention paid to HVO and GVO in education to be extremely important. Children are at the beginning of their life's journey in an extremely complex world. Many questions of life and existence are also asked of children. Kids like it, too. This is my daughter's folder: Gvo is fun! I only brought it as an inspiration to myself. What are we doing it for anyway? We do it for the children and for all teachers who stand with heart and love for the class. For that we take our hat off! Many in the Chamber are in favour of paying attention to philosophical education. Our children learn to develop a philosophical and moral compass step by step from the inside, allowing them to continue their journey as consciously and as resiliently as possible. Making selfies out of your inside, one of the kids called it. I'm watching every time I hear the wisdom of young children! On behalf of my colleague Rog and my colleague Voordewind, but also on behalf of all those children, all those parents and all the teachers, I would like to thank my colleagues for their broad support. I would also like to thank everyone from outside the Chamber for their support for the bill: the AOb, the BUN, the CJO, the CNV, the CBOO, the CMO, the HRN, the Humanist Federation, Humanitas, the Interkerelijk Contact in Public Affairs, the ISBO, Parents & Education, the PO Council, the PKN, the Roman Catholic Church, the Association of Public Education, the Association for Public and Public Access Schools, the Association for Catholic and Christian Education, the VO Council and the Peace Movement PAX. No less than 20 statements of support, except those of the Secretary of State. In fact, he is engaged in a system discussion here and apparently wants to change the constitutional nature of public education. The Secretary of State may have a different view on public education. Of course, that is not the case, but that is not what our legislative proposal is about. The bill does nothing more and nothing less than settle the previous wishes of the House of Representatives. The desire to regulate structural funding dates back to 2008, partly because of the Law BIO. The preservation of core values in public education was confirmed in a 2013 motion. This is a fundamental right of parents who deliberately choose not a special school but a public school, which is the general provision of education. They have the right that their children should not be deprived of education in line with their educational situation. This bill takes the current law and law as the basis and focuses only on structural funding. This gives us much more certainty than the non-structural subsidy. Like many of you, we want to prevent redundancies among the approximately 600 GVO and HVO teachers, the 75,000 children and their parents from being disappointed and denied a right. Moreover, it would weaken public education. Obviously, there is a need to discuss the position and character of the public school in a more fundamental way. Next year is the 100th anniversary of the establishment of educational accreditation. A good moment for a separate debate on public education, perhaps with the MP Dekker in the room. We now reach 75,000 children every year and we would like to keep that number for the future. That is why we want to secure the EUR 10 million we have for this. That's the main cover. We are now turning the subsidy into a budget line. We would also like the 600 teachers to be properly paid for their work. That is why it is important that it should become a budget item, so that it can be indexed as part of the budget with a correction for the wage and price level, as a response to Mr Bishop's important question. If there is a need, I say to Mr Bishop, we can also do something about the size of the groups. In Belgium, for example, there is a right to hvo or gvo from one child. In the Netherlands we have counted so far with at least seven children. Of course, we can still use this button if we want to do something about the financing, but we want to keep it that way for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u13	The latter was also my question: is the initiators' thinking line to keep that in that order of magnitude? Of course, it's always arbitrary, but I understand that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u14	Sure, but it's a button you can turn, as we say. The CDA considers it important to express appreciation for the teachers. We see that as well, so we are happy to endorse it. The Labour Party states that it wants to remove uncertainty. That is exactly what we would like to do. It is indeed a modest proposal for funding, but it makes a big difference for teachers and the strengthening of public education. The VVD has fundamental objections, as well as the PVV. The PVV also came back to the difference with the philosophy of life. This point has already been raised in the first period. On the one hand, we have the field of knowledge of spiritual movements, which is given both in public and in special education, and which applies to all pupils. On the other hand, there is the identity-oriented GVO and HVO, which depends on the wishes and needs of parents. These are two very different things. I would like to join with the Christian Union in saying that this proposal contributes to mutual understanding and integration, which they wholeheartedly support. I would like to thank the Christian Union for that. Thank you also for the broad support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u15	There's been another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u16	We advise against that motion, because this is a destructive motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u17	The motion is also addressed to the government, so I ask the Secretary of State to give his opinion on the motion briefly in his comments on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u18	Mr. Chairman. The comments I have already made in the first period remain valid. In my view, this bill costs money. The authors speak of indexation. It is not now compulsory and must therefore come out of the EUR 10 million available in the budget. The same applies to the intended growth that the initiators have in mind. According to the government, the initiators should indicate where the cover should come from. He's not here right now. So if this bill is passed, I assume it will be at the expense of the lumpsum. Then there is the debate on a fundamental right and a change in the system. I don't think that's the case at all. Article 50 has always been in it, but Article 50 has also been in it without any obligation on the State to pay it. So you can have another discussion about that. I should like to leave the motion tabled to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-14.u19	Thank you very much. Then we have come to the end of the deliberations on this bill. The vote on the motion and the bill will be on Tuesday. I wish the initiators every success.
