ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. On the website of the Eerste Kamer there is a list of points of attention for the members of this house for legislative quality: a kind of manual senator. Everyone is, of course, free to play their part in this house, but it is nice to read how we are supposed to test the legislative proposals that are being tabled here. In particular, the terms "legality" and "efficiency" are frequently used. No one in this house will question the legality of this bill. The Minister can delete the CCS. But what about efficiency? To what end does the Minister delete the Zbo CCS, the independent administrative body Central Commission for Statistics? What is the problem with this bill? Is there any clarity as to the causes, nature and extent of the problem, if there were any? The suggestions on the website of the First Chamber appear to be useful tools in the handling of this bill. The PVV Group comes to a rather sad conclusion. The Minister has not been able to explain in any way why this law was tabled, either on the other side of this square or in writing with this house. The explanatory statement states that one of the objectives of this proposal is to reduce the number of ZBOs. In the debate in the Lower House, however, the Minister said that this was a misunderstanding. The goal isn't to get any less ZBOs. So we can delete that. The aim is, according to the debate in the Lower House, to clarify the steering relationship between the Minister of Economic Affairs and the DG of the CBS. But what was the problem? What was going on with this steering relationship, which has existed since the end of the nineteenth century? Well, the Minister wrote, in 2004 the CBS DG was placed at a distance, together with the CCS, because both became a ZBO. The cabinet called it an unnecessarily heavy facility. Nothing material happened, nothing other than that the CCS got the stamp "zbo." If you intervene because of the unnecessarily heavy equipment, the removal of the Zbo is therefore an end in itself. In addition, the AFM has a supervisory board which is also organised in such a way. Apparently, the facility isn't too heavy. So what problem do we have here? The steering relationship would be less transparent because one zbo oversees the other. That seems to me to be quite transparent in itself. What needs to change is not clear to us, especially since the legislator has sought to distance these organisations from politics in order to guarantee the independence of statistics. Although the amended Advisory Board has a right of recommendation, this law allows the Minister to appoint, suspend and dismiss the CBS DG. One of the main tasks of the CCS was to define and approve the multiannual programmes and the work programme of the CBS. I do not think this debate can be followed at home. That responsibility for that determination now goes to the Director-General of the CBS itself. The Minister can only formally intervene if the programmes fall outside the financial and organisational frameworks. The integrated, independent, non-politicized test carried out by the CCS expires. With this, the Minister creates the opportunity to get a grip on the CBS through financial and organisational frameworks. What if the minister had to cut back? Knowing that the Minister has the legal capacity to dismiss the CBS DG, there is a tremendous pressure on that DG's shoulders to satisfy his minister, while the full, independent, non-political test of the CCS has disappeared. In the debates in the House of Representatives, the Minister pointed out that these powers gave him the opportunity to quote "to check more closely and to monitor better." This suggests more political influence on the CBS. And yes, the House of Representatives can control him for that, but there are also politicians in that Chamber, while you want to keep statistics as far away from politicians as possible. They must be independent. So it's a mistake as far as we're concerned. You would hope not only for us, because statistics should be independent. Is the removal of the CCS perhaps a cut-off? We asked for this in writing, because that is also an objective of the coalition agreement. Is the money coming up? Well, the CCS costs €90,000 a year. We do not yet know how expensive the new council of advice of Mei Li Vos is, in which the necessary political friends will be established. So it can happen that by deleting the Zbo CCS afterwards we are even more expensive out. As far as we're concerned, that's putting the horse behind the cart. Then I come to Eurostat. Eurostat mentions in a report, which came out after the Minister had submitted the bill to the House of Representatives, the current construction with the CCS is a best practice. That's a sound from Brussels. This should be addressed by colleagues, especially those who are not speaking today. This is the way to organise your statistics, Eurostat says, other countries should take an example. But no, the Minister is deleting the CCS because European rules do not require the CCS, a monitoring body, to exist. Eurostat also states that this change could lead to less independent and less reliable statistics. The Netherlands therefore adapts to the morality and lower quality of southern Europe. The government agreement states that the government will look at the management of ZBOs and will also consider whether this form of supervision is the most appropriate way. Eurostat states, in all languages, that this is the case, that this is the most appropriate way to follow in the Netherlands, so nothing unclear steering relationship. Where the other parties in this Chamber are normally in the position when a run-up comes from Brussels, only Mr Gerkens of the SP and the PVV are speaking today. As I said, everyone fills out their roles in their own way. Berenschot found that CCS played an important role in improving the management and efficiency of the CBS. There were no bottlenecks in the steering arrangements. In addition to the tasks of CCS vis-à-vis the CBS, CCS also has the task of promoting statistical information by the public authorities. That child is also thrown away with the bath water. The CBS DG therefore deals with this legislative proposal on the multiannual work programmes and needs to organise its own governance. That's quite an accumulation of power with one person, for all the statistics of the Netherlands. In addition, the austerity has also put pressure on the CBS DG to carry out more tasks for third parties. This will also put pressure on the quality of the CBS. The whole process is similar to that of Minister Plasterk, who wanted to merge a number of provinces at the beginning of this cabinet period. He started an ARHI procedure, had municipalities and interested parties speak up, but at the end of the procedure, when everyone had had their say, he came up with a rattling report on why the merger was so good. This procedure exhales the same thing. We are deleting a Zbo, because that is the intention of the coalition agreement and we will then figure out why we think it is such a good idea. Like Minister Plasterk, this minister has failed to come up with good reasons for doing so. Although more and more policies are completely facts-free, I refer to the Energy Agreement. Statistics should be above any doubt, especially over political doubt. The PVV Group finds it completely incomprehensible that a large part of this House does not discuss this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Politics is often a matter of common sense, but unfortunately common sense is sometimes confused with a gut feeling. In one of my previous relationships I learned from the marketing manager: n is not equal to 1. Unfortunately, today, politics is often dominated by n=1 formulas. Facts are corroborated by what one has heard from grandma, friend, or worse, a friend of a friend. What happened to the individual makes the truth and then the policy. Now the concept of 'fact' has also become a diffuse concept in our country. Results of the same research may vary depending on who quotes that research, but there are often policy-based claims made without research. An independent institution above all suspicions, which gives factual figures, is therefore of great importance in order to prevent policy being made on these pure underbelly feelings. In the Netherlands we have such a beautiful institution, the CBS. The primary task of the CBS is statistical research in the Netherlands. That research provides the facts and figures, which are then used for the policy to be made. The role of the CBS is therefore important for politics. The CBS is a Zbo and thus operates independently. Besides the CBS we also have a CCS. This committee approves the annual programme of the CBS, together with the Minister of EZ, but that is not her only task. It also coordinates the investigations, ensures that the correct data are available from the government and can entrust independent research to the CBS, without the Minister's approval. The CCS will disappear in this bill and an advisory council will replace it. In short, the autonomous functions of the CCS lapse. The argument for this is that everything can be arranged more efficiently and equally well with an advisory board and without a CCS. However, the current structure is praised and mentioned by many as the reason why our research is so independent. The Minister is now trying to replace this position with an advisory board that can advise on the work programme of the CBS. However, this advisory board does not have the last word on the work programme. The main argument put forward by the Minister is that the current construction with the CCS is difficult to operate, but it has never been demonstrated. He also wants to make the relationship more transparent. He also says that he is committed to the independence of the CBS. On balance, however, there is now a proposal in which the Minister has all the power to give advice and advice. That is an undesirable construction because the CBS is getting closer to the minister, just where distance is desirable. We ask the Minister to reconsider giving the Advisory Board the opportunity to reject the work programme if it has serious reasons. I'd like a response from the Minister. I can imagine an outsider thinking, "What are we worried about now? It's about collecting data, a rather dry matter and, well, what could go wrong with that? Isn't that right?" In this context, it is worth noting that the CBS has changed course in recent years. The CBS, formerly a reliable source of independent data, has become an organization that makes news with that data. The idea behind it is that the CBS can interpret the data like no other and that it should not be left to others, such as journalists. For example, in recent years, the CBS has issued a number of press releases indicating that the current policy pursued by this cabinet was on the right track in various areas. Unfortunately, it turned out that in several cases the data had been misinterpreted. As an example, I would like to mention the message from the CBS that the cuts in childcare from 2009 to 2014 did not lead to fewer working mothers. That story didn't add up. The cuts only came in 2011 and until that time the number of childcare jobs increased. After the austerity, the number of jobs fell and the number of mothers working decreased. Let me give you another example. The Scientific Council for Government Policy presented a report on income inequality over the last 30 years. The conclusion was that this inequality increased. The CBS didn't come up with its own investigation much later. The CBS's conclusion was that income differences are small and stable. However, this study covered the period from 2008 to 2012 and did not look at the lack of capacity. These are nice losers, for the benefit of this government policy. But instead of the Minister coming up with a proposal to improve supervision, there is a proposal to simplify supervision according to a model in which the butcher adopts his own meat. The appearance of dependence has already been awakened. Is that what the Minister is worried about? I'm gonna close up with what I started. Policy is based on facts. If these facts seem to be different from what was thought, then we must tackle the policy and not the investigation. The investigation must be above all suspicion, highly independent and not flufted or excited. The investigation should just give the facts as they are. With the disappearance of the CCS, the CBS loses its much-needed independence. How does the Minister intend to guarantee it? I look forward to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u4	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I was wondering if Mrs Gerkens was aware that she was contradicting herself at the end. At first, her reasoning was that the CBS constantly comes up with press releases to support the cabinet. Next, she said that the cabinet intended to gain more control over the CBS and to be able to send in the coverage that goes out from the CBS. She really spoke against that for a while, and that didn't support her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u6	This is almost entrapment. 'Cause this isn't what I said. I was just saying that in recent years there has been a change of wind at the CBS. In the policy change that this Minister has put in place, perhaps I should not call it a cake, because it is not as beautiful as it is to remove the independent supervision. This trend has thus already been observed in this cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u7	It's really not like that. The cabinet is not sending press releases issued by the CBS that are supportive of cabinet policy. That is absolutely not the case, and that has not been the case at any time. I didn't do anything to influence those messages. I'm fighting the temptation to say, on the contrary. This is just a misconception by Mrs Gerkens. I'm glad I've been able to take it away now. The government has critically assessed whether the ZBO implementation is the most appropriate implementation for parts of the public service remit. It also considered whether the form of an agency might be better, because it would then be 100% government. The idea of the cabinet is that it is most insightful to the citizen and most obvious to everyone if a task is either of the market or of the business sector, business then carries out that task and is then automatically corrected by the market or by the government. And in the latter case, you should have that task done by the government, possibly in the form of an agency. In the Netherlands, we have the growing practice of working with independent administrative bodies. For some organisations there is something to be said for that. We walked past this and had a look at all these independent administrative bodies. What about the desirability of as clear a distinction as possible between government and business and between government and market? Let's not make the intermediate structures more complicated than necessary? We've had all these ZBOs checked out. We were able to draw conclusions from this, including with regard to the Central Bureau of Statistics. At the Central Bureau of Statistics you had the special situation of two Zbos. One was the Director-General of the Central Statistical Office. The other was the Central Committee for Statistics. This situation was something between the government and the market. The CBS was close to the government, but it was not really government, there were two independent administrative bodies and then there was also a minister who had to play a role in it and who had to be accountable to parliament. The man who vetted this report, De Leeuw, came to the conclusion that this was a little insightful construction. The cabinet has thought about this and made that conclusion. The cabinet also found it strange that there are two different independent administrative bodies, which have a relationship with each other and also have a relationship with the minister, and that then it should be clear to the parliament and to the people in the country how that works. We didn't think that was right. That is why we have looked at how we could best organise this. Two things must be clear. Firstly, the independence of the statistical system must prevail. Secondly, the role of the minister must be clear, so that he can answer to Parliament, the First and the Second Chambers. We've developed this further. We have come to the conclusion that the abolition of one ZBO, the Central Committee for Statistics, and the continuation of the Director-General of the CBS as an independent administrative body, could provide clarity. All tasks and activities of the CBS in relation to the budget, the annual accounts, the multiannual programme, the work programme, the quality of statistics, the promotion of the statistical supply and the right to be heard before an investigation is started shall be carried out by the Director-General of the CBS. The Minister for Economic Affairs will then be given the power to approve the multiannual programme and the work programme. He already has this power in relation to the budget and the annual accounts. So these are generally drawn up documents. He may approve the Minister in charge. The responsibility for all other things that relate to the quality of work What exactly do you do, how exactly do you do it and how do you communicate about it with the outside world? He is with the Director-General of the CBS. He is also protected by his position as an independent administrative body, by the law that exists for ZBOs and by the separate law that exists for CBS. That gives him the independence he needs. That is where the Minister cannot simply decide whether or not to approve a budget, annual accounts, multiannual programme and work programme, depending on what he or she is in the mood at the time. No, he or she can only reject these things if they are not in accordance with the financial and organisational framework established by the Council of Ministers. This can only be done on those grounds and in accordance with a procedure set out in the new law. What the Minister is allowed is precisely defined. How he can do that is also described. It is quite clear which considerations should be taken into account and which documents should be the basis for this. That is therefore a very clear protection for the Director-General of the CBS, for his independence and thus for the institute CBS. So that independence remains. We have ensured that the Director-General of the CBS itself determines the method by which the statistical surveys are carried out. I have already said that he also decides how and when he publishes and communicates about it. He remains independent on this point. The framework law regulates independent administrative bodies for all Zbo's, including the CBS, which the minister stands at a distance from that Zbo. The Director-General of the CBS shall not be subservient to the Minister. I may be able to draw up policy rules on how the Director-General of the CBS should act in a general sense, but there is no way for me to intervene in individual cases. That gives the Director-General of the CBS the independence he needs. We have now set up a system which, in our view, is an excellent guarantee of independence. During the examination of the bill in the House of Representatives, we decided that a five-yearly evaluation of the CBS will take place. That's what's laid down in the bill. In this five-year evaluation, we will examine in particular whether the independence of the Director-General CBS is optimally guaranteed in the way now organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u8	I have two questions. I know this minister likes to get them one at a time, so let me start with the question about the handling of the bill in the House of Representatives. Mrs Vos stated there that the Minister said that the Chamber could even more closely monitor him with this bill as regards his powers towards the CBS. The Minister said that this is the intention of the bill. I can only interpret this as having more influence on the Director-General of the CBS, on whom all the responsibilities now lie, as the Minister himself said. This shows that the Minister says that politics will have more influence on the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u9	Yeah, but I don't think that's dirty. If you give the people's representatives in a democratic country the opportunity to address a ruler on matters that happen within the complex government organisation, then it is good to settle that with each other. Who else would do that but the People's Assembly? We have set up an organisation that is transparent, clear and logical, within which the Minister takes responsibility for the annual accounts, the budget, the work programme and the multiannual programme, because he approves them. Parliament can appeal to the executive. In the past, the parliament could not address the CCS. Parliament can appeal to me. There is, therefore, a clarification in the relations between the Minister and the Central Statistical Office and there is talk of giving more opportunities to the people's representatives to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u10	That was excellent for two centuries, even with Eurostat. We can leave this point behind, because we do not think so. We believe that the Minister will have more political influence on the CBS. How can Eurostat, for example, say that the way it is organised in the Netherlands is the best? When a bill comes along, I'm always looking for the answer to the question of what problem that bill solves. I still haven't heard that problem. Eurostat also says that everyone should do it this way, but that is precisely how we abolish it. Can the Minister respond to that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u11	I just said what the problem was. I'm going to repeat my story now. You have the market and the government. You have things with the government that you can organize, if you want to take responsibility for, in your own device. You can do that through agencies, but in fact they are also part of your own device. It is also possible to use an independent administrative body in certain cases. That is less clear, because such an organ is a bit between the two. If you use an independent administrative board, you have to do it in a clear way. If you have two independent administrative bodies controlling each other and you also have the minister, then that is not clear. If we can clarify that, then that is an improvement. We have now organised this improvement. Mr Dercksen says that things have been going well for two centuries. It is indeed going well from the moment we do this, from the end of the nineteenth century. This is also because we have always had the good attitude of the government to behave in this way, both in terms of the legal rules and in terms of the actual behaviour towards that organisation, which results in optimum results. The legislative proposal before us today is an example of constantly looking at whether we have organised the matter in the best way possible. We do not undermine the independence of the Central Bureau. We maintain the independent administrative board Director General CBS. We continue to protect that through the Law on the Central Statistical Office. The relationship between the Minister and the CBS is governed by the framework law independent administrative bodies. We have still arranged everything in a proper way, but it is getting a little clearer now. This is in the interest of the CBS and in the interest of the parliament, which the minister can better control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u12	I would like to continue with some of Mr Dercksen's questions, because I hear a number of assumptions in the Minister's reply. The Minister says that it is to be welcomed that the parliament can now also exercise more democratic control over the CBS through the Minister. This was not the case in the past, but it was not necessary either, because the two institutions were so close to each other in a scientific way that it has never happened before that the representatives of the people had the need to call the minister to account. That will be possible now, so the Minister says in fact that he thinks it is necessary for the apparatus to become more political and that it should also come under political control. It's always nice when things are clarified, but that has to happen if there's a problem, if something goes wrong. I ask the Minister what went so terribly wrong that he has decided to come up with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u13	There is no need to go terribly wrong to write in the coalition agreement that it is wise to look at the independent administrative bodies as a whole and see if we still have the optimal construction for this in all cases. It is also not wrong, if you get an opinion on this, to look at what would be optimal on a case-by-case basis. We have done the same in this case. We have looked at how it is now organised and how we think it could be optimally organised. At present we have a structure on the basis of which an independent administrative body does something and controls and directs another independent administrative body, while we also have the Minister. Despite my long experience in all government agencies in this country, I do not think that is understandable. I can imagine that people with less experience find that even less insightful. That is why we have looked at how we can make this clear. You can choose between an independent administrative body that carries out something on the one hand and another independent administrative body that directs and controls it on the other. You can also choose in our democracy to allow the government to play a role, as an independent administrative body, to play its own role, to protect it legally, and then to give Parliament the opportunity to address the minister. What can the Minister be called upon to do? I can be consulted on the work programme, on the multiannual programme, on the budget and on the annual accounts. So I have to make sure that there are no wrong things in there. What's wrong? What would be wrong would be contrary to policy rules that have been adopted or policies that have been adopted. As long as that is not the case, I cannot intervene in the programmes of the CBS. The CBS can therefore do independently, within the margins and the frameworks it has, what it itself thinks is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u14	I'm gonna try one more time. We have a structure with the CBS and the CCS. It's been functioning well for a few hundred years. So much so, that it's widely celebrated worldwide. Nevertheless, the Minister thinks it is right to make a legislative proposal precisely in terms of the structure, which has been going well for years and which no one has ever complained about. In my view, that looks like unnecessary legislation. The Minister still can't say what was so pressing to come up with this bill, other than that he thought it was rather inconvenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u15	This is a weird way of arguing. I am asked a question, to which I think I give a clear answer. Then it is said that I am not answering. I have said that we must take a critical look at the construction of the independent administrative body. It is a separate construction, which has certain disadvantages. We have had it examined for all independent administrative bodies. On the basis of this survey, we have examined on a case-by-case basis what the current construction is and what the desired construction would be in our opinion. In this case, we have found that the results have been good over the years, but that the chosen structure is an independent administrative body, controlled by another administrative body, and a role for the Minister is not clear and transparent. In addition, this construction limits the actual possibilities for Parliament to address the Minister. We have now maintained the construction of a single independent administrative body, clarified the role of the minister and strengthened the position of Parliament. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u16	Let me conclude with one final question. How insightful and clear does the Minister consider that construction at the Financial Markets Authority (AFM)? It has a supervisory board constructed in exactly the same way as the CCS of the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u17	There is no proposal to change everything at the same time in all independent administrative bodies. There is only a proposal for the Central Statistical Office. As I have just pointed out, other self-employed administrative bodies are examined on a case-by-case basis how it is regulated and what is optimal in that situation. A conclusion is then drawn from this. You have to look at this on a case-by-case basis. So there is no point in comparing all these things and saying that what we are doing here is not good because we may be doing it in another way somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u18	The Minister himself comes up with the fact that he takes a case-by-case view of where things are going well and where they are not. The CCS case was obviously not clear. I still do not understand why that is so, but at the AFM, the Minister or this cabinet does allow that same structure to exist. Why is the same construction at organization A not clear or clear, but at organisation B? That's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u19	We do not decide on all independent administrative bodies at the same time, we introduce the same structure for all ZBOs, but look at the ZBOs on the basis of a general analysis on a case-by-case basis. It is therefore up to the States-General to assess us on a case-by-case basis. What we do or do not do with regard to the AFM will also be communicated with this Chamber in one way or another. It can therefore have an opinion on this. I can't tell you exactly what's going on with the AFM. I would not even know if we have already reached final conclusions on the AFM at this time. To the extent that this is the case, they will be able to be defended on the basis of the specific situation that exists there. Not all self-employed administrative bodies are one-on-one comparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u20	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u21	This is extremely disappointing. I ask for two organisations that are both a ZBO and have a kind of supervisory board that is also a ZBO. I ask what consideration will lead to this change not being made at the AFM and at the CBS, but the Minister is full of teeth. That is disappointing, especially since two parties here are asking about the real reasons for deleting the CCS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u22	This is a wonderful way of discussing it: asking me a question and when I answer it, saying that I am full of teeth. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Is that the way you argue here in the First Chamber? I have already given a very clear answer to this question on a number of occasions. I can repeat that a number of times, but that really doesn't make it any clearer. The Director-General of the CBS is thus guaranteed his independence in the manner I have just indicated. This is not just a matter of laying down a separate law for the Central Statistical Office and a separate law for the independent administrative bodies. It is also the culture between the cabinet and the Central Bureau of Statistics. How do you act as a minister in front of the CBS? This is a different culture from the culture that I believe Mrs Gerkens outlined with her question. She suggested that the minister would like to send politics on the CBS because he would like to make the CBS say things that would make cabinet policy look good. I hope that it is now clear that such an influence on the Central Statistical Office has never been present, as far as I can see. In any case, that is true for the period of my responsibility here, for more than ten years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u23	The minister just said something about the way in which we discussed things in the First Chamber. Then perhaps I could address him at the twisting of my words? I have not suggested at any time that this is why the Minister is abolishing CCS. However, I say that, and I repeat here that statistical research must be above all suspicion. In this way, the image of independence is compromised. We should all blame ourselves, including this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u24	Mrs Gerkens cannot seriously believe that the independence and quality of the statistical data depend on the fact that we have two independent administrative bodies in one organisation, and also a minister with responsibility. It does not believe that the quality and credibility of the statistics in the Netherlands is guaranteed by this structure alone. Of course, there is absolutely no question of that. These matters are primarily guaranteed by careful legal provisions. They were already there and they remain there; they are even being improved at the moment. Secondly, these matters are ensured by the culture of dealing with the CBS. This culture is that we very much want the right figures to be given independently, so that we can base government policy on hard data and have no ambiguity about the basic principles of our policy. That is the way we work here in the Netherlands. It would be very strange if only because we now have two Zbo's on that one organization. The Director-General of the CBS shall have the possibility to set up advisory councils. That's gotta be some real advisory advice. Mrs Gerkens says that you should have such an advisory council set up the work programme, but that would confuse things. A board of advice is there to give advice. The Director-General of the CBS already has and does the opportunity to set up advisory councils. One more Central Advisory Council could be added. The CCS budget remains available and could also be used for this purpose. It is up to the Director-General of the CBS to do so. We have not imposed any restrictions on this, except that we have clearly laid down the duties of the Minister, including the approval of the work programme, in the law and that the Minister should be called upon to do so by Parliament. This may ask why the Minister has approved a work programme. The Minister can then justify this to Parliament. That seems to me to be an excellent way of working. Mr Dercksen pointed out that the Director-General of the CBS was entitled to recommend a new Director-General. He felt that the advice board should be able to do more. The council of opinion has been firmly anchored in the way that the House of Representatives has discussed with me. The advisory board can do meaningful business. This is a good addition to what I have just said about the relationship between DG CBS and the Minister. The way in which we now wish to deal with the advice board, including the way in which the Director-General of the CBS wishes to deal with it, is the best way of working. In my opinion, this will also be recommended by Eurostat as an 'even better practice'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u25	For the sake of clarity, I would like to explain where the PVV stands. We would be happy if the CCS would continue to exist. Whether it falls under the heading of "zbo," "consultative board" or "supervisory board," it will be our business. That is how we are in this structure. We are not against the deletion of Zbo because we are by definition in favour or opposed to Zbos, but the amendment on a supervisory board has been rejected in the Lower House. If this amendment had been adopted, the whole of the Zbo CCS would have become a kind of advice board, with all the tasks they had. As far as we are concerned, that would have been a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u26	You would have kept the same unclear situation, but with a different stamp on it. That's exactly what the cabinet didn't want. I have already said that I think Mr Dercksen is taking a completely wrong approach. He says the CBS is going to try to satisfy the minister. I can assure him that this is not a consideration for the CBS and the Director-General for a second. He says the Netherlands adapts to southern Europe. Maybe he likes to say that, but of course it's completely unrelated to reality. Mrs Gerkens, with the cabinet, believes that an independent statistical institute is of great importance to our country. I fully agree with that. I think that the fact that there is now no CCS that can direct research to DG CBS only makes the matter clearer. The independent position of the Director-General of the CBS shall be ensured in all possible ways. With his organisation, he can do what is necessary from his own expertise. He's responsible for that, too. For this, documents are drawn up which the Minister can influence in a manner as laid down in the law. I think that's the best way to maintain that independence. Mrs Gerkens says that all power now lies with the Minister and that the advice board can only give tips. The advice board is there to give advice. The power lies with the Minister in so far as he can or cannot approve the annual budget, the annual accounts, the work programme and the multiannual programme. It's a logical, limited power, controlled by parliament. Within that power, there is the power of the director-general of the CBS to ensure with his organisation that the quality of statistics remains at the level that has been the case in recent times. I have one final comment to make. Mrs Gerkens mentioned a few examples, and one of them was that the CBS would wrongly have given the impression that income differences in the Netherlands are small. I say to her that the income disparities in the Netherlands are relatively small. That's just a fact. That says not only the CBS, but that is evident from every investigation. If you compare the countries in the world, in the OECD or in Europe, the Netherlands is one of the two or three countries with the smallest income differences. That's the way it is. She says there are greater power differences. That's true, too. However, if you look at the differences in income in the world, that is what is at the basis of capital in most cases, you can see that these are small in the Netherlands compared to other countries. I hope that I have dealt with the various points raised by the spokesmen in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Minister. Then we have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. The Minister and the PVV aren't getting any closer. That happens all the time in this house, I have the idea. As far as we are concerned, it has not become much clearer why there is a relationship that was not insightful. I have, of course, looked at the debate on the other side, in the House of Representatives, and also read the documents. We have had written consultations on this. It is completely unclear to us. After the legislative proposal has been submitted, a report has been submitted by Eurostat. If that warns of less reliable and less independent statistics, that should really give thought. At least that is the case with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Dercksen. The Minister states that he has the opportunity to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u30	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that I was able to see this afternoon that the word 'euro' falls and that there is a positive attitude on the part of the PVV. Normally, the word 'euro' is enough in any way to come up with negative criticism, but here I am told something that comes up from Europe and is said to be something to set you up. I would very much like to focus on the desire for independence of the Central Statistical Office. I am convinced that we have done this in the best way possible with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u31	We think that we could organise our own statistics in the Netherlands. It was my hope, however, that, by mentioning Eurostat, I could get both this Chamber and the Minister moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u32	Anyway, at least the beginning is there. There is a European opinion and there is a positive response from the PVV. That offers hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-eerstekamer-5.u33	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
