ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has been a long time since the preparations for this bill started. At that time it was still responding to an actual development, now we are actually already partly behind the facts. The media reports almost daily on new initiatives, programmes, possibilities and wishes for electronic exchange of medical data. The number of eHealth applications grows every day, as well as the technical possibilities to give patients more direction. With these developments, it is all the more important to ensure legally that the electronic exchange of information, the exchange of information, the protection of privacy and the patient's ability to control it, is also guaranteed. That's what we want to do with this bill. In 2011, the bill, still under the name of epd, was stranded in the Upper House. Among other things, the Chamber considered that privacy was not sufficiently secured and the direction was too central. A number of conditions have been advocated through the Tan motion. This law wants to meet those conditions. The keyword is no longer "file," but "customer rights," the rights of clients. The bill makes a significant adjustment. Our group wholeheartedly supports the line for greater attention to the rights and direction of patients and clients. Greater involvement can greatly improve the quality of care. The exchange of medical data may be of great importance to patients, particularly with regard to medication. This data has been digitally stored for a long time and has also been exchanged. Good conditions are therefore important. The privacy of the patient, the security of communication and the rights of the client should be well protected. For privacy protection, this is actually already well regulated by the WGBO (Law on Medical Treatment Agreement), the Personal Data Protection Act, NEN requirements, NHG directives and also through EGIZ (Electronic Data Exchange in Healthcare), its own Code of Conduct in the sector. That's what the Dutch Data Protection Authority says. The law also makes the safeguards more effective for the electronic exchange of data. That is a good thing. This is different for the security of electronic data exchange and the rights of the client. It is a good thing that this law aims to achieve a substantial improvement on these points. The aim of the law is to lay down the framework for the safe exchange of medical information in such a way that the standards in force can be adapted to new technological security possibilities without the need for new legislation. That's important. ICT developments are moving so fast that it would not be good if every new technological opportunity required ever new legislation. New is that the law significantly strengthens patients' rights. Thus, consent specified by law becomes a requirement. This means that patients are given the opportunity to direct what is in the file and who is allowed to access what data. The law regulates logging and listing. This gives patients the right to digital insight into who has had access to the file. In other words, the law provides that patients can access, manage and give specified consent to third party use online. That is a good thing and fits in perfectly with the policy of putting the patient more at the centre. However, there are still a few practical problems in this respect. First of all, the fact that not all patients can or want to manage their files themselves. Can the Minister promise that self-management of the medical record will become a right and not a duty for patients? A very uncomfortable fact is that the provisions on client rights and the specified consent contained in Article 15 are currently not technically feasible. This is particularly uncomfortable because the law aims to strengthen client rights. The Minister proposes that the provisions concerning logging and listing, patient electronic management and the specified consent should not be introduced for a period of three years and that Article 15b should not be introduced. Our group can agree to the latter. The field has for a long time indicated that there is no clarity as to whether it will be feasible in three years' time. Both the adoption of a law which is technically impossible at the moment and the three years delay of important provisions without an understanding of its feasibility in three years' time makes it a difficult matter for the Court. How can you clearly submit the possible choices to patients; who should do so; who should finance? The term "specified consent" is new. It was unclear for a long time what to mean and whether or not it could be implemented. This led to the demand for the added value of now adopting the law, because important parts of it are unclear or unworkable. This question gave rise to an additional technical briefing and an additional hearing to hear the views of the various parties involved. That was enlightening, even if, or precisely because, not all participants are aligned. In the meantime, a letter from the organisations ActiZ, InEen, KNMG (Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Medicine), KNMP (Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Pharmacy), LHV (National Family Doctors Association), Nictiz, Patient Federation NL and the NVZ (Dutch Association of Hospitals) has come together this summer. They consider the law important to give a clear perspective. They write that there is acceptance and willingness to implement a solution, whereby the patient himself registers and manages his consent. The three-year extension of certain components is considered a condition for the organisation to be able to achieve its technical feasibility. Organisations such as KBO-PCOB, Reumafonds and the Nier Foundation also advocate the legislative proposal. Where there were previously concerns in almost the entire field and a plea for postponement, there is now support for a wide variety of organisations involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u3	It is true that a number of organisations would like this bill to be adopted. However, there are also organisations, particularly in the area of human rights, which say that the bill should not be adopted. They think data privacy is deteriorating. In addition, we are still faced with the problem that it is still unclear whether the specified consent, which Mrs Martens' party in particular would like to see, is possible at all. Not to mention that access to patient data by the patients themselves is also possible in a safe manner. On the initiative of the ministry of VWS, Privacy Care has conducted an investigation into this possibility. The question was what degree of protection you should have. Privacy Care says that it is far from possible to communicate safely at that level. How does Mrs Martens feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u4	Indeed, we have also received letters from organisations that argue that it should not be allowed to continue. That's what I just told you. Just at the point of Privacy Care I have a question in my contribution, because safe exchange and privacy are of course important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u5	I am glad to hear that, but I suppose it could still be a stumbling block for Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u6	That is what we are going to take into account in our deliberations, as is customary. If you ask questions, you wait for the Minister's answer. On that basis, a judgment is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u7	I'm still looking for some clarification from the CDA on the specified and generic consent. The generic consent was a no-go. This was already clear in previous debates. The specified consent was a condition. Does the CDA share the estimate that by postponing the specified consent by three years there is de facto generic consent for the first three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u8	It is now also necessary to give consent and to indicate the data on which basis and why. So that's not generic by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr Ganzevoort briefly, because we are very tight in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u10	I understand that, but I think the question of what is generic and what is specified is one of the key points of the debate. Mrs Martens says this is actually specified. That's how she describes it now, even though it's not specified yet, but generic. I believe that we still have the same confusion of speech as we have in recent years. I am very curious to see whether we can clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u11	The situation as it is now is as it is now. What is regulated in this bill is that patients are given the opportunity to give specific consent. That's the new thing. You can't make this law that it's different from what it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mrs Gerkens briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u13	That's right, but you could use this law to make sure it's improved. However, that is not by definition something that is being done with this law. This law makes it worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u14	Then I hope that you will ask and get some clarification on that. Mr. Chairman. Although we have not received a positive opinion from all organisations, it is important that we have received this positive signal from this large and diverse group of organisations. This support has been generated by good and intensive consultation between the parties concerned and the Ministry in the past period. It is no longer a mandatory national system, but it is being worked in close consultation with practice. Can the Minister promise that she will also be closely involved in the further development of the field? The CDA Group supports the importance of sketching a perspective. The danger is that, if legislation is not introduced, technical solutions will not be developed for what is now needed, but cannot yet be technically achieved. However, the members of the CDA Group still have a few questions about the proposal. There's a lot to do, a lot to say and a lot to ask about the law. In this contribution we will confine ourselves to a dozen points on which we would like to hear the Minister's response. 1. The WGBO and the Wbp (Personal Data Protection Act) have arranged for doctors and patients to talk together about consent for the exchange of data and the question of which data this is desirable and why. It is a big change when the law completely lays down the management of consent with the patient, for example via a portal or a check-off list. How does the Minister see that? 2. Push and pull. Once again, in response to questions from the First Chamber, the Minister wrote that a number of provisions of the law relate mainly to pull traffic. In the case of push traffic, a health care provider transmits data only to the follow-up handler. With a pull system, a healthcare provider can retrieve data from another healthcare provider's system, even more data than just the necessary data. Can the Minister again address the need for, added value or desirability of exchange via the pull system? I am also asking this in the light of the fact that files in health care institutions, general practitioners and pharmacies are often wrong. Many files have not been updated, important information is missing and what is in the files is far from always correct, according to the recent study of the Dutch Patient Federation. 3. Final responsibility for the file. Can the Minister say again who is ultimately responsible for the availability of the file and its financing and who is ultimately responsible for its content and accuracy? Can it also indicate how there can be no doubt about liability and responsibility if something goes wrong? I am also asking this in the light of developments in patient portals. 4. Authentication/identification. If patients can manage their own files and as health care providers and follow-up practitioners themselves can access patient medical data elsewhere via the pull function, then it is important that those patients and caregivers can identify themselves and that the consent is registered somewhere securely, the authentication. Can the Minister say again how she is going to ensure the security of identification and authentication? This is certainly the question now that DigiD is too unsafe for that and a report by PrivacyCare and PBLQ shows that the legal level of reliability required for patient authentication cannot be reached at the moment. On what basis does the Minister base her optimism that it will be available in three years' time? And what if that doesn't turn out to be there in three years? 5. Security of the database. Somewhere regional or central, for example at the nationwide switching point strongly stimulated by the health insurance companies, a health care provider can check if the patient has given permission to join the file as a health care provider. That's a delicate database. It is important that the medical data itself do not become available to that central system itself, that central database itself, or that that system does not also play an active role in the actual exchange of data. Can the Minister indicate how she's going to ensure that? How, for example, does it intend to prevent the LSP (National Switchpoint) from becoming an unauthorized door providing access to data? Last week, members received a letter from VGN and ActiZ, two respected national organisations, in which they wrote that they had no idea of the obligations that the AMvB would bring and that it was therefore unclear whether they would be able to meet the obligations in time, in particular with regard to NEN standards. Although the writing is late, our group still gives reason to ask the Minister how she sees this problem. If she sees a problem on that point, can she indicate how she intends to deal with it? Does it see opportunities to relieve or remove care? 6. Safety of devices and systems. The law aims to improve the security framework for the devices and systems used to exchange data. In Europe, profiles have been developed to enable devices and systems to exchange data easily and safely, including internationally. That's a good thing. Compatibility and interoperability is very important. Is the Minister prepared to include these international profiles in the security framework? This is all the more the question as it concerns open source profiles which can be a great opportunity to connect business-independently in good time with further technological developments. 7. Overrule. Our group believes that it is important for a health care provider to have access to data, particularly in the event of a danger of life and vital importance, even if the system does not allow it. In the last report, our group has asked for this possibility of overruling. The Minister's reply has not yet brought the desired clarity. Can the Minister confirm that this law does not remove the existing possibility to do so? In other words, can the Minister promise that in a case of vital importance, an aid worker will be allowed to access the data under the usual conditions and guarantees, as the WGBO now says? 8. Position of health insurers. The law prohibits health insurers from accessing patients' medical records. There will be a penalty of up to €500,000. Does this also mean that a health insurance provider may not require a patient to allow the insurer to access his medical records, even for supplementary insurance? In the meantime, law 33980 has been passed in the Lower House which allows health insurers to consult medical records of patients in case of suspected fraud and to inform them afterwards. We receive many emails daily from people who are worried about this law. They don't think the cure is proportionate to the disease. There is talk of an amount of fraud of 11.1 million out of a total healthcare budget of 73 billion. Of these 11.1 million, 9.8 million are fraud committed by healthcare providers and intermediaries, not patients. We are aware that this legislation is different, but because of the many e-mails we would like to ask the Minister on this occasion to indicate how both legislative proposals relate to each other. 9. Financial and administrative burdens. Precisely because it is not yet clear how the specified consent can ultimately be requested and given, there is still no clarity as to the financial and administrative burden that this will entail for the various healthcare providers and authorities. The Minister has indicated that Actal could therefore not yet clarify it. Is she prepared to have the Actal test carried out in due course? Can the Minister indicate how it intends to deal with the results if the burden is excessive for one or more specific groups of caregivers or institutions? 10. The patient secret. Finally, a question about the confidentiality of patients. It is well known that, among other things, municipalities, insurers and public health services often wrongly ask citizens to request their entire medical records from the general practitioner, which is not allowed at all. When a patient indicates that an authority asks for their file, general practitioners are sometimes reluctant to provide files in order to protect their patient. But in the end, a general practitioner should not refuse when a patient asks for his file. What is the Minister's position on the idea of creating a patient secret to prevent patients from being asked to transfer their data to third parties for improper reasons? I ask this partly in relation to companies' initiatives to store health data in a data cloud and the fact that these parties are not covered by this law and have no professional secrecy in this regard. How is privacy secured there? This brings me to the end of my first term contribution on behalf of the CDA Group. We thank the Minister for the attention and, as always, look forward with interest to her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. Electronic data exchange has played a major role in healthcare every day for decades. This will only increase further in the future. It is in the interests of the patient that he and his caregivers should be able to quickly obtain his relevant and up-to-date medical information. Digital local, but also national medical archives show this on a large scale every day with a huge and irresistible quality improvement of care as a result. My group wholeheartedly supports the principle of this law that the exchange of data should be carried out in a safe manner and that the patient should be able to direct it. The proposal creates framework conditions for the possible use of an electronic exchange system by healthcare providers. The proposal does not prescribe the use of electronic exchange systems and the nature of such systems. The provisions contained in this bill complement the existing rules of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act (WGBO) and the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp) and later the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This was further explained by the Personal Data Authority at the Expert Meeting of 5 April 2016, which gave a very positive opinion on this bill. For example, generic consent already complies with existing legislation, while now specified consent is regulated. Furthermore, the existing rules do not specifically cover electronic data exchange. The explanatory statement reports on this and I quote: "The provisions of this bill do not affect the provisions of these laws applicable to file formation, consent to access to data, logging, the provision of data to third parties etc. This legislative proposal complements this and clarifies the additional rights and safeguards applicable to clients in electronic data exchange and the availability of data through an electronic exchange system." The law implements a number of motions relating to the electronic exchange of medical personal data. This room has the Tan c.s. motion. adopted in which the government is requested to "establish a detailed legal framework of standards and standards for both digital file-making and access, as well as data transmission, security, monitoring, enforcement and sanctions requirements, patient access, the provision of a copy to the patient and the transport of data at the request of the patient, in order to enable secure digital transmission of data, both pull and push, between healthcare providers within a region." In the original bill, the patient was not given a sufficient position. In this way, the patient was only given the opportunity to object afterwards. My group, like other groups, has therefore raised a number of critical questions and concerns at earlier stages of the treatment of this law and its predecessor, the EPD, which I am now happy to pass on. This concerns access for insurers, Article 15f. In addition to the WGBO and the Wbp, insurers are prohibited from accessing the data. The legislative proposal now includes a more severe sanction for the health insurer who still has access to an electronic exchange system. A system is also built in in which a policy holder can terminate his insurance immediately after the health care authority has imposed an administrative penalty on a health care insurer or has given an indication that a health care provider has read or processed data from certain insured persons or policyholders in breach of the law through the electronic exchange system. This is an important improvement in my group's view. It is, of course, necessary to inform the insured person immediately if necessary. Can the Minister confirm that this will happen? Which party is responsible for this task or obligation? Another question concerns the clue. This is not an administrative instrument and has no legal status. With the notification obligation data leaks the binding designation has been introduced in the General Administrative Law Act (Awb). This indication is considered to be a yellow card. This may turn into a red card, an administrative fine, if the designation is not followed. My group would like to know about the possibility of cancellation if the insurer has followed the binding designation, or if an objection and appeal procedure shows that the binding designation has been wrongly imposed. Then there's security standards. In an earlier period, my group has called for concrete obligations to healthcare providers to be imposed on the practice and protection of patients' privacy, and welcomes the fact that this is happening now. These obligations therefore lie in particular in the requirements of confidentiality, integrity and ex post control. In addition, security standards such as NEN 7510, 7512 and 7513 are made mandatory via AMvB. This makes very concrete demands in the field of information security, including authorisation and logging. NEN 7510 and 7512 already apply to systems with which the bsn is processed. NEN 7513 on logging is currently not regulated and is becoming a necessary condition for complying with the standard of adequate security in the electronic processing of medical data. According to the Personal Data Authority, as indicated at the Expert Meeting on 5 April 2016, the introduction of these security standards is even the main profit of this bill and its introduction is now "needed'. Mr Verheul of the RU also mentioned this as a plus. According to Nictiz, the NEN standards fit very well in this context. Now it could be argued that this has already been settled, and I think Mr Ganzevoort is going to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u16	If he gets the floor from me, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u17	I'm entirely dependent on you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to ask that particular question, but I do wonder if it's not a big deal. Is it indeed governed by this law or by a General Measure of Management that is linked to Article 26 of the Wbp?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u18	As I said, security standards such as NEN 7510, 7512 and 7513 are made mandatory via AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u19	It's related to article 26 Wbp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u20	I should check that out. At least it's gonna be an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u21	That doesn't take this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u22	That AMvB is subject to this law. According to Nictiz, the NEN standards fit very well in this context. Now one could argue, and here it is that this is already covered by Article 13 of the Wbp, which provides for adequate security. But the said Authority and Nictiz also state that it is "needed" that the care world develops this into NEN standards. The standard of the Wbp.............................................................................................................................................................................................. According to Nictiz, the current NEN standards provide information about authentication, authorisation and logging, but not about the specific consent that is at issue here. Specific consent, free and informed, will soon also be required under the General Data Protection Regulation. I would like to take this opportunity to take another look at the matter by the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to submit the said AMvB in draft form to this Chamber in due course, as well as its periodic evaluations? I'd like a commitment. Then I come to the consent (Article 15a) and the obligation to provide information (Article 15c). In my group's opinion, in the previous legislative proposal, there was insufficient understanding of the access of aid workers to the system. Who gets permission and who doesn't? This is now being explicitly regulated. The patient gives specified consent. Under Article 15c, the healthcare provider has an obligation to provide information: he must inform the patient if he wishes to exchange data electronically and report which care providers and which data are involved. He must therefore ask a specified consent question so that the patient can make an informed choice or give informed consent. Furthermore, consent should always be sufficiently specific, including specified consent. The current bill obliges to differentiate between the aid workers. My group shares the view that this should be dealt with as soon as possible with field parties such as the Consumers' Association and the Personal Data Authority. According to KNMG's communication, the report of the expert meeting on 5 April 2013 is currently working constructively with the Ministry to prepare the implementation of that specified authorisation. At the moment, this is not feasible, which is why the Minister needs to temporize this section. My group agrees with, for example, the NPCF that this temporization is a good, at least inevitable step. With the introduction of this part of the law, direction is given to the way in which the authorisation regime is and needs to be set up. According to the KNMP, this is essential for making system choices, as mentioned at the expert meeting. These choices make commitments, including financial commitments. The parties will only want to take steps if the law is passed and if it is clear which way we are going. The KNMG also states that the law can be adopted without the specified consent being introduced and therefore has an added value. According to the NPCF, the patient federation, the introduction of the hull law has added value because it provides clarity. According to the NPCF this also applies to the articles that are being timed, because after the introduction they know where they are going in the coming years. Nictiz also called it useful and necessary to exert pressure on the field by adopting the hull law. Nictiz is convinced that implementation in the available timeframe is necessary and possible. Can the Minister state what the situation is and what the prospects are? The note following the report states on page 18 that "care parties will be given no later than 3 years for the feasibility of the specified consent and the realisation of the portal. Some healthcare providers may be ready for this sooner, as they can already offer a portal to patients." The further reply states on page 4 that the provisions shall enter into force for three years, and not later than three years, after the entry into force of this legislative proposal. As my group reads, healthcare providers have three years to comply with the requirements of the law. What does the Minister think of the possibility of setting the time limit for introduction to a maximum of three years or so much earlier if specified consent is feasible, as Mr Engelen seems to suggest? My group has a motion for a resolution on this matter. Finally, on this point, does the Minister consider it possible in future for the patient to give consent when someone wants to see the data as outlined as an ideal by the Consumers' Union? It seems to the members of my group that this will be difficult or unworkable as opposed to prior authorisation. If that consent is to be given at the time itself, it will take time anyway. In care, that time will not always be given. How does the Minister see this? I will continue with inspection, copy and logging (Articles 15d and 15e). The patient's access to the electronic file was not regulated in the previous proposal and was not considered possible. My group considered this to be very undesirable at the time. This bill gives the patient access to his electronic file with the healthcare professional with whom he has a treatment relationship. In view of the data exchanged, the patient will be given "the person responsible for the electronic exchange system, respectively the Association of Healthcare Providers for Healthcare Communications (VZVZ) as responsible for the LSP. The latter can be done on paper or online by logging in with DigiD. The NPCF has indicated that I refer again to the report of the April meeting of experts it is regrettable that this article on inspection will not enter into force for three years. Field parties such as the NPCF and the Consumers' Association are particularly disappointed because there are already very good examples of hospitals, general practitioners and pharmacists involving patients through portals and apps. This contributes to trust and insight. Patients will then know better about what data the doctor has and what he is exchanging. The NPCF fears that the development could come to a halt as a result of a delay in the entry into force of this Article for three years. My group shares this view insofar as entry into force should not last longer than is strictly necessary. According to Mr Engelen van Radboudumc, the development of electronic access is already so far that tomorrow, on Wednesday, we can start with it. What does the Minister think of the option of shortening the delay or at least not allowing it to last longer than until it has been settled? My group has a motion for a resolution on this too. In addition to accessing his file, the patient is also given the opportunity to contribute and to deploy or extract something, as the minister explained during, among other things, the AO in the Lower House of 29 June last about ICT in healthcare. My question to the Minister is how this relates to the file obligation of the healthcare provider, in particular with regard to the requirements relating to the quality, completeness, safety and reliability of that file and therefore to medical data exchange from that file, the subject of this law? After all, the Minister has reported in the same AO, and my group can very well agree that the dossier should be adequate and accurate and that that responsibility should remain with the provider. So this seems to be about the same file. What is the status of the information standard medication process in this context? Will the patient be obliged to comply with this when editing his file? Finally, on this point, my group has noted with approval that the Minister has launched an investigation into the behaviour and culture of patient data protection, the so-called quick scan. Is the Minister prepared to submit the proceeds of this investigation to this Chamber in due course? I'd like a commitment. Then there is the obligation to participate. According to some, there seems to be an obligation on the general practitioner to join electronic data exchange systems such as the national switching point (LSP). This was rather a major point for my group, and it still is. The Council of State also commented on this. The operative part of the Raad van State was worded as follows: The Advisory Section of the Council of State proposes that you forward the proposal of law to the Second Chamber of the States General, after the above-mentioned consideration will be taken into account. In the current legislative proposal, my group does not read any obligation. Another thing is that pressure could be exerted on general practitioners to join. Following reports in the media that insurers would exert pressure on healthcare providers to join the LSP, Dutch MP Leijten asked questions about this. The Minister replied that patients and healthcare providers should feel free to participate in the LSP or not. The law states that an obligation to participate may arise if the field decides to do so itself and by consensus. Can the Minister specify what is meant by "the field" and what is the role of the health insurance provider here? What is to be understood by consensus and how should it become clear? Then I come to the fee for participating in the LSP. With the amended motion by Mr Leijten (Room item 33509, No. 34) the Lower House asked the Minister to ensure that financing or reimbursement arrangements for the provision of information to clients on participation in the LSP were not in any way a financial incentive towards participation or non-participation. That's a good thing. Both the healthcare provider and the patient should feel free to participate in electronic data exchange or not. According to the Minister's statement in the House of Representatives, healthcare insurers The Netherlands is not in favour of a financial incentive towards participation or non-participation. Does my group now understand that there is no such thing? General practitioners and pharmacists will be compensated for the costs they incur for connection to the LSP and for asking and processing permission. The Minister has indicated that it will take action if it reaches signals that health care providers feel forced or tempted to join the LSP or any other electronic exchange system by means of financial compensation. I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. Does the Minister see any possibility of actively monitoring this? The question is whether, with participation in the LSP, general practitioners are obliged to cooperate in breach of professional secrecy. This objection was raised, in particular, by the Association for Practitioning General Doctors (VPH). My group has taken note of the ruling of the Central Netherlands court on this matter, which states that the care information system of VZVZ is not contrary to the provisions of the Wbp. My group understands that the VPH, after also being unsuccessful in appeal by the judge, decided last May to go to the Supreme Court in cassation. The LHV trusts, upon request, in its assessment of the legality and security of the LSP on the ICT expertise of its association agency, on the legal expertise of its Federation KNMG and on the supervision by the Personal Data Authority, formerly the CBP. On this basis, the LHV trusts that the LSP complies with the laws and regulations. Can the Minister state what is going on with the procedure of the VPH and what is her view on the objections of the VPH? Does the Minister share the LHV's vision and what arguments does the Minister have? Then I'll get to the alternatives. In the said motion-Tan c.s., No. 31466, Y, from this Chamber the government was asked to examine the possibilities of an electronic health card, which does justice to the patient's control over his own medical record. My group, too, has drawn attention to this earlier. In general, there seems to be more and more possibilities to keep information with the patient via other media, such as a chip card or USB stick. However, my group also gets signals that this would no longer be considered sufficiently safe in relation to emergencies, emergency situations and loss or theft, as mentioned on page 12 of the note on the report. In addition, in the field, it learns that although the mobile information carrier is seen by the general practitioners as an interesting option, these feasibility problems would arise. This is linked to regular involvement in many patients of multiple doctors inside and outside the hospital, additional letters and results that appear when the patient has already left, multidisciplinary and regional consultations and so on. The information would therefore quickly become obsolete and may be informative for the patient, but limited for treatment workers or not at all usable and certainly not up-to-date. For this reason, the KNMP even called it "unreal" at the expert meeting and talked about "back in time." Moreover, the advantage of privacy that might be opposed would be relative, because a computer where the card or stick is tucked in will download the information. What is the Minister's view on this? Finally, I would ask the Minister to make a commitment to accept within three years the evaluation report which she promised to that Chamber at the time of its examination in the TK with the adoption of amendment No. 20 members of Pia Dijkstra and Bruins Slot will also be sent to this Chamber. My group looks forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal sets out to improve customer rights in electronic data processing seems to be a good aim in itself, but unfortunately it results in the opposite result: uncertainty, uncertainty and, above all, insecurity of patient data. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, it does not respond at all to the objections raised by the Upper House in the legislative proposal for the electronic patient file that was rejected in 2011. The privacy and security requirements for the exchange of medical data are still not met. After a year and a half delay in plenary proceedings, it is not even a full legislative proposal, but a half-baked plan by partial postponement. It is as if a cook serves a bake that comes out of the oven with a nice sauce: his guest eats it unnoticed, pays the bill, but has a great chance of abdominal pain the next day. And that is now also the risk of "phased" introduction of the law: it makes it appear as if the client rights are well secured, the patients share their data in good faith, pay their health insurance provider, but in the meantime they run the risk of their medical data falling into different hands than they intended. It is precisely the introduction of the patient's own ability to give specified consent in the patient's file and his right to electronic access and copy that the minister now intends to postpone for three years. This makes this bill incomplete and careless. The proposal has been postponed for some time; why not put the care first and introduce the whole package only when everything is really well arranged, when the patient is no longer at risk of figurative, perhaps even literal abdominal pain if medical data falls into the wrong hands? Because how much certainty does a patient have? According to the Minister, in the three years of the phased introduction there is no generic authorisation but still specific authorisation. However, at the same time, I quote: 'The answer to the question of consent may be generic'. And there is now the uncertainty for the patient, who in many cases will be inclined to grant generic consent, not knowing which healthcare providers he will need in the future. And who would have access to medical data and health data from eHealth applications with such a generic answer? To what extent is the link with a treatment relationship still present when processing big data? Can the Minister clarify this? It is striking how hard some large health care companies, such as Philips, have insisted on the adoption of this law by the Upper House. At the end of June, our chamber committee received a letter from Philips in which it insisted that despite the specified consent has not yet been worked out, it should adopt the law so that it knows where it is going. Philips-topman Frans van Houten did a few days later at the European Data Forum in the Eindhoven Evoluon even a little bit on top of that by expressing harsh accusations towards the First Chamber. He expressed his displeasure that due to concerns about privacy the law had still not been dealt with. Citizen's privacy is apparently only difficult for him, just as he said in the same speech that "popularism drives us apart" and "brexit is a disaster." Privacy and the citizen's opinion are apparently of secondary importance to Philips-CEO in order to be able to profit from the health data of those same citizens. This calls for an extra critical view of such developments. In our previous written questions, we have expressed all our concerns about the cooperation between Philips and Allianz in the field of health data and the possible circumvention of the ban on insurance. The Minister's reply that a party such as Philips may only process health data if there is explicit consent does not at all reassure. What if a patient answers a generic question of consent? How can the Minister guarantee that this is always clear and unambiguous for patients from the question? While these major health care providers claim to need the law to know where they stand, fortunately, they are now being seriously experimented with solutions for safe systems on a smaller scale, without the need for the phased introduction of the law. For example, there is a serious alternative to the nationwide link point, an initiative of the General Medical Circle Amsterdam, the Whitebox. We also received a clear explanation of this at the expert meeting. This is also in line with what the PVV has previously called for: sufficient privacy and security requirements in the exchange of medical data, with the patient having control over their own medical data and with respect for medical confidentiality. Therefore, the PVV has proposed to ensure that the patient himself gets the direction of his medical record and authorizes healthcare providers himself by means of a personal care pass. We still do not see these directions of solution, instead the Minister chooses to postpone the articles on specific permissions for patients, while the consent of a generic character remains open. We therefore call on the Minister to state whether, when the technological possibilities are available at the desired level, she is prepared to allow the introduction of a personal authentication card. I'd like a reaction to that. I would like to come back to the earlier expert meeting where some points have been raised. I would ask the Minister to respond to this. I'm going to read out some quotes. Mr Nouwt van de KNMG, the Royal Netherlands Society for the Promotion of Medicine, claims that it seems that the bill is contrary to the instructions for regulation. I quote: 'It says that a regulation is not proposed or designed until it has been verified whether there is sufficient enforcement to be achieved. For this reason, we have previously called for a postponement of treatment. (...) My position is therefore: wait for the legislative proposal to be dealt with until there is more certainty about the feasibility of the requirement of the specified consent." Can the Minister indicate whether she shares this finding on the indications and, if so, whether this is a reason to postpone the whole legislative proposal for a preliminary period, rather than not introducing some provisions now? Mr Heldoorn of the NCPF, the Netherlands Patient Federation, said: "My last point is that no one should fall between shore and ship. The alternative I have put is: consent or vital importance."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u24	I put a question to Mr Van Hattem for clarification. Actually, I don't quite follow his argument. First of all, I understand that patients will have abdominal pain, and then I will immediately come out of my chair from the introduction of this law, and then I will hear him express his concerns about the safety of existing and newly introduced electronic data exchange systems. Now this law does not prescribe any system, including at the request of this Chamber. In the previous law, that was the case. This law only lays down requirements for existing and possibly new systems to be introduced. Think of security standards and high fines for insurers on unlawful perception. There is, however, a contradiction in Mr Van Hattem's contribution when he says, on the one hand, that patients get abdominal pain from all this exchange that has been going on for 30 years in a large-scale way and, on the other hand, he is concerned about the safety of this exchange. This law regulates precisely, as good and as bad as it can, security standards, high fines for insurers, access rights and all the other things Mr Van Hattem says are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u25	I can give a very clear answer to that. This law was actually attributed to the LSP system. That's basically what it's all about. There's just a risk in that. It is unclear to what extent the protection of patients' privacy data is regulated. There is an unnecessary risk for patients due to delay of the relevant provisions. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u26	In which articles of this law does Mr Van Hattem read that the law even implicitly regulates the introduction of the LSP? I would like an answer to that, because apparently I have read about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u27	It's not explicit, but it implies it. There's just a system behind it that's going to end up with such a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u28	In what article of this bill does Mr Van Hattem read this implication? Just a little more concrete, so I can check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u29	It's just in the structure. It's not in one article, it's in the structure. When the system is put into effect in this way, you end up with a nationwide system, a nationwide switching point. Perhaps the biggest flaw is that there is no explicit regulation that excludes a national referral index. If a national referral index had been excluded, it would have been much safer, but that is not settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u30	You will have to do so, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u31	I had stayed with a quote from Mr Helmorn of the Netherlands Patient Federation. I continue: "This bill focuses strongly on the self-conscious patient who is able to make informed and informed choices and who to some extent has insight into his medical situation. However, there is another reality in the care: there are plenty of people who can't. A Motivation study shows that just under half of Dutch healthcare consumers fall under the category "less self-reliant'. The group also includes very vulnerable patients; people who rightly assume that the doctor or another healthcare professional is doing what is in their best interest or what is good. This includes taking responsibility for electronic data exchange. However, the problem is that ICT systems are rather black and white: consent or no consent. That one-sided focus on informed choice or on the dangers of exchanging medical data may have undesirable effects and may pose risks to vulnerable people. (...) I conclude with the question: how do we ensure that less self-reliant people cannot suffer and that caregivers are not limited in acting in the vital interest of their patients through a lack of consent in the system?" This was a long quote, but it does clarify an important question. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. I also have a quote from Mr Voest from Branch Organisations Zorg. He says: "Finally, I mention the costs that this entails. If we have to take care of everything as it now stands, huge investments must be made in ICT and in infrastructure. More importantly, this will keep the doctor and the nurse away from the patient. They must first explain what the system is like. That is extremely annoying." Can the Minister indicate whether she can endorse this position and whether she can provide insight into the expected costs and effects on the doctor-patient relationship? Finally, a quote from Mrs Van Leeuwen of the Consumers' Union: "The direction of what happens to that data and when must lie with the consumer. He must have knowledge of that and be able to make his choices. We do not see enough of that in this bill. In our view, the cause of this problem is that it builds on a system that is not based on this principle but that gives more substance to the situation we now know." Would the Minister like a response to this position regarding the patient's directional function: does the Minister think that it has been sufficiently completed? In 2011, this Chamber unanimously rejected the bill, as privacy would not be sufficiently guaranteed. Senator Mrs Dupuis, a member of the minister's party, responded as follows: "The basic question was what the advantage of such a large-scale, rural system is. That question has not been answered." In November 2011, with the Mulder motion, the already rigged infrastructure of the EPD will be used for a new version of the EPD: the rural switching point (LSP). With regard to the PVV, the current proposal still fails to meet the basic question put by Senator Dupuis. "If one sees what is right and fails to do so, that is a lack of courage." This quote by Confucius was used earlier by our PVV colleague-senator Fritters, when she had this portfolio and this file under her care. It's a striking application here. The Minister has seen what is right, namely that the first bill was unanimously rejected by the First Chamber in April 2011. Afterwards, in the eyes of the PVV Group, she failed to submit a new, solid bill that responds to the previous objections of this Chamber. In doing so, she shows a lack of courage. The patient suffers from this, because the privacy of his medical data is at stake. Moreover, safety requirements are still not met, it remains too large-scale, liability in the event of abuse is not properly regulated and the patient still does not have sufficient control over his own medical record.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. We live in an era in which we have 160,000 apps at our disposal in health alone, in which we can collect our steps, heart rate and other data through wearables, and in which an increasing number of hospitals offer patient portals. In his book The Patient Will See You Now from 2015, Eric Topol outlines the expectation that the arrival of the smartphone will mean "de Gutenberg" of healthcare. Topol's central thesis is that where the invention of the use of loose letters in printing by Johannes Gutenberg transformed modern times around 1450, the smartphone will transform healthcare. Where it's still the doctor who decides when the patient's turn is "the doctor will see you now," the smartphone will turn the proportions really radically, says Topol: "the patient will see you now." By eHealth.......................................................................................................................................................... Digital access to and exchange of data is the most normal thing in the world, but under harsh conditions. In this digital age, clarity about the rights, duties and responsibilities of all parties involved in the electronic exchange of medical data is literally vital. However, the scope of today's law seems more limited than the name suggests. It is not about electronic data exchange in the broad sense. The law ensures electronic exchange of data through systems used by multiple healthcare providers. It does not cover push traffic, such as whatsapp and email, and not internal patient portals. Can the Minister confirm that, so that we have no ambiguity about the scope of the law? Since 2009, this house has been talking about the digital exchange of medical data. This was first in the context of the electronic patient file and then on the basis of the current Client Rights Bill electronic data processing. There have been several letters, consultations, technical briefings and expert meetings over the last two years. My assessment is that many of us agree on the importance of the safe and accessible exchange of medical data. It is particularly important for patients who depend on multiple medicines to have a complete overview of their medication use. In a recent joint letter from a number of patient organisations, it was pointed out once again that good and safe medication use is becoming more urgent in an ageing society. The fact that this bill has been discussed so long and intensively does not have to do with the ultimate objective of secure digital file-making, exchange and access based on the patient's explicit consent. However, it has to do with the framework conditions, the feasibility and the fundamental sensitivity of medical data. My group has serious concerns about the feasibility and possible undesirable side effects of specified consent and about whether the rights of clients and patients are adequately guaranteed in the legislative proposal, in particular security and privacy. Firstly, my group questions the way in which the authorisation requirement is implemented. We agree that there should at least be explicit consent to the sharing of medical data. This is also legally secured by the General Data Protection Regulation and the Personal Data Protection Act. The Bruins Slot amendment has clarified this as "specific consent'. This sounds nice, but it introduces a legal problem. In international medical-ethical literature there are many forms of consent: explicit consent, broad consent, specific consent, informed consent, stepped consent and dynamic consent. However, the term specified permission was new to me. There is therefore no clear meaning in literature, in science and in the profession. A first question I should therefore like to put to the Minister under this legislation is the following. Can the Minister clarify this once and for all, which I have not yet found in the written preparation? The patient doesn't exist. We're all different, even if we get sick. This pluralism in society is reflected in health care. As far as my group is concerned, consent for the sharing of data should not only be explicit, but above all customised, allowing patients to adjust their consent if their situation, preference or understanding changes. In international literature, this is referred to as "dynamic consent': people can log into a file or portal and choose to open up all their data, open up specific data, or open up certain data only to certain helpers or applications. It is called dynamic, because you can change your preference at any time. My group would like to know whether the Minister had any such specific consent in mind. At the same time, there are hooks and eyes attached to such a system. It is quite difficult to make an assessment from your computer or at the desk of a pharmacy of exactly what you are consenting to and whether some medication data might be more relevant than you think at the time. So if people choose not to unlock certain data, that is their right. However, there will have to be some kind of warning, so that people are aware that there can be a risk. How does the Minister see that? And does the Minister guarantee that people remain free at all times not to consent to electronic data exchange at all? Recently, the National Family Doctors Association reported that patients and caregivers are being pressured to hand over copies of their files. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. And what about liability if patients do not consent to share certain medication data and therefore suffer serious harm due to side effects? Then I come to the technical feasibility of specified consent, which I have already called attention to. The Minister is putting this Chamber before a dilemma: we are asked to agree to the introduction of a system that provides for a system that is not technically possible at all. It is the role of the First Chamber to assess the quality of a law in its entirety, and that is difficult here. Over the next three years, the responsible parties will have to work together on an ICT system that provides specified consent in technical form and is also sufficiently safe and effective. Can the Minister give my group confidence that this will work? It is not exactly the case that other ICT projects involving the government have always been very smooth and safe. Can the Minister undertake to involve all relevant stakeholders in the "go/no go" decision? The Minister chooses to bring provisions 15a-c into force later, namely in three years' time. What is the Minister's plan if it appears that the specified consent cannot be technically achieved during the specified period of time? Let's look at it as optimistic as we are. Suppose, driven by the present bill, a good technical system has already been developed within a year. Then why does it only enter into force two years later? Can the provisions of Article 15a-c also enter into force earlier than the deadline set? The same applies to the digital copy: why do patients not get it for three years? In a number of hospitals where patient portals have been developed this can already be done! In other words, in principle, my group welcomes the shift from generic consent to dynamic consent, but we have questions and concerns about interpretation, liability, feasibility and voluntaryity. We also have concerns about the security and privacy of electronic exchange systems. Let me start with a disclaimer: 100% digital security and privacy means that we have to disconnect our computers and bury them underground. I realise that absolute 100% security cannot be guaranteed, and so we are talking about the moment when a system is safe enough. Two aspects can play a decisive role in the acceptability of digital exchange of patient data. A first risk to privacy is unauthorized access to files. By giving patients insight into the logging data and by refusing healthcare insurers access, a step in the right direction is taken here. I'll be right there with you on this. A second risk concerns insufficient security or careless handling of digital patient data. The NEN Standards Bill sets out the requirements for electronic exchange systems. My group supports the formulation of such standards, but believes that additional safeguards for the security of such sensitive data are necessary. For example, in recent years, double verification has been added in electronic payments, with the user having to give additional permission to make a payment by means of a text message or a login device. As a result, online abuse and fraud have fallen significantly. Is the Minister prepared to instruct to develop additional safeguards for the security of care data? The European Data Protection Regulation requires data protection-by-design when processing personal data. This was called privacy-by-design. Is the Minister prepared to agree and also to ensure that data protection-by-design is the starting point of any system? I expressly say 'what kind of system', because the proposal aims to be technical and system neutral. However, I get the strong impression that it alludes to a continuation and extension of the nationwide linking point. Working with such a referral index has been assessed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority and recently by the judge as sufficiently safe, but direct communication between helpers without a point of contact can even better guarantee privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u33	I see a third problem for data security. That's what's in the digital transcript of patient data to the patient. As soon as the patient receives the information, the professional secrecy lapses. The data will then be in the hands of a patient who owns it. Mrs Bredenoord started her speech with all the beautiful apps that are available today and the enormous pressure app developers put on users to throw data they own into those apps. That is, of course, terribly unwise, but we all know that it is actually happening. How does Mrs Bredenoord view that this patient can so easily drop professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u34	I would no longer call it professional secrecy, because it is at that time a matter for the patient how he deals with his or her medical data and personal data. I will also have a question about this later when I come to the specified consent. This is part of the complex whole: to what extent are patients now able to control and manage the data with these systems? In a few minutes, I will have a question for the Minister on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u35	I am very interested in that question, but I would also very much like to know from Mrs Bredenoord what she thinks. I think she is right to say that the current patient is unable to oversee the consequences and risks. Let me make a comparison with traffic. We all wear seat belts for our own safety, but he is legally obliged, because we know that the citizen likes to get in the car without wearing the seat belt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u36	As far as I am concerned, it is time for some sort of digital civil rights agenda. I do not think that we are sufficiently prepared for the large-scale digitisation of society. We don't oversee the terms or agreement of whatsapp, or any other app we download. I think this is a much broader issue. By the way, my party has this digital civil rights agenda in the election programme. I see this as a very broad issue which needs to be worked very hard in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u37	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u38	Finally. Then it could be no different than that D66 as a party on privacy says that this is not a good development and that the citizen is not yet ready; let us first ensure that the citizen is sufficiently secure and strengthened to be able to cope with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u39	As far as I am concerned, we are debating this today. I'd also like to wait for the Minister's answers. I will continue to work with such a referral index. This has been assessed by the Dutch Data Protection Authority and recently by the judge as sufficiently safe, but direct communication between helpers without a switching point can even better guarantee privacy. How system or technique neutral is this law? What is the chance for alternative, perhaps safer, ICT systems? In any event, monitoring of the electronic exchange of data and the techniques and practices used will need to be stepped up. For example, fines against unauthorised access to files have been formulated, but this must be subject to control. The Personal Data Authority should be able to keep pace with developments in the field of digitalisation in healthcare in its task. If the Dutch Data Protection Authority still works with the budget of the pre-digital era, it does not have the capacity to conduct in-depth investigation and supervision. Is the Minister prepared to investigate ways of significantly increasing the monitoring of the electronic exchange of information and to inform this Chamber of these possibilities? Depending on the Minister's reply, I am considering asking the Chamber for a ruling on this matter. In addition, health insurers may have access to medical records in case of suspected fraud. The House of Representatives recently adopted bill 33980. A number of predecessors have already mentioned this. This bill has yet to be dealt with in our Chamber. How do the provisions of the Law 33980 relating to access to medical records by health insurers relate to the prohibitions contained in the present bill? Are health insurance companies allowed to look into digital patient files or not? In this digital age, clarity about the rights, duties and responsibilities of all parties involved in the electronic exchange of medical data is literally vital. My group still has serious concerns about the feasibility and possible undesirable side effects of specified consent and about whether this bill adequately guarantees the rights of clients and patients, especially security and privacy. We await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u40	I would like to ask a question, partly in connection with the interruption by Mrs Gerkens. At the moment, information is widely exchanged. At the moment, there are all kinds of systems for it. At the moment, patients are already getting a copy of that. This law regulates, for example, Article 15c that the healthcare provider has an obligation to provide information. He must inform the patient about these data and about the dangers that occur if he deals with them in an unwise manner. We're all thinking in the same direction. Surely it is necessary for the law to be introduced now that we have been exchanging these data on a large scale for decades without any such security measures. Article 15c actually responds to what Mrs Bredenoord is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u41	Article 15c is one of those important provisions that is being postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u42	That seems logical to me, because at the moment that specified consent is not yet in question. If you are now in favour of the earlier introduction of Article 15c, we can discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u43	If previous implementation is possible, not only technically, but the whole of health care must be ready and we must all find it safe enough, we can of course talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Good care comes together. This is a statement that is not only about a good dialogue between people who are ill or have a disability and their healthcare provider, but also about pooling expertise and information from different healthcare professionals to ensure that people get care that suits them. It is a good development that more and more healthcare providers are involved in the care of one patient or patient. Client: Diseases are increasingly interrelated, medication for one ailment affects the functioning of another medicine and specialists can watch with other care providers remotely to make good diagnoses and achieve effective treatments. The increasing technological potential relates not only to innovations in diagnostics and treatment options, but also to the use, storage, processing and sharing of data on the care provided. Other colleagues have also commented on this. Today, we are discussing a legislative proposal that focuses on the framework conditions for electronic data processing by healthcare providers and the rights of the client in doing so. The bill has a long history with a search for the division of roles between the government, healthcare providers, patients/clients and also other field parties when it comes to capturing and sharing client data. The Electronic Patient File Act was rejected in this Chamber in 2011. This means that the discussion in recent years has shifted to the question of how we can make good and workable agreements with each other on the collection, retention and sharing of electronic information about clients and their care provision. The digitisation of client data has taken off in the last decade. Almost every healthcare provider has now electronically recorded the client's data. On a local scale, and in part also nationally, customer information is exchanged. As a general rule, clients shall have no objection to their legal representatives as well as to their legal representatives. Often they will even be happy to share data if their care is improved, if they no longer have to provide the same information and/or do not have to repeat investigations. At the same time, it is perfectly understandable that people want and need to be able to make reservations about who can see and use what information. After all, it is very personal information that you normally only want to provide to healthcare providers if it helps to improve the care you receive. As a PvdA group, we do not want to let go of the ambition of working towards a situation in which every person becomes the owner of his own electronic client file, also known as personal health file, with all the elements of the care he has received anywhere. Everyone must be able to decide for themselves who can use their medical information. We are curious whether the Minister shares our ambition and whether, in addition to the bill we are discussing today, she is working on supporting policies and legislation to ensure that a safe personal health file is created, whereby every Dutchman can decide who can access his data. We realize that there is still a long way to go before each person has their own integrated personal health file. This means that until then, like today, we are mainly talking about how to deal with the data that healthcare providers record from clients. The legislative proposal now before us is intended to provide clarity from the legislator on the rules of play that everyone has to observe when information from clients is electronically recorded by healthcare providers and where it is at issue.... is shared with other healthcare providers. The bill is clear about what we are working towards: specified consent whereby the client determines who may view and use what information. This also applies to the provision of electronic information to the client about whom his data has been accessed and/or used. We thank the Minister for the clarity she has given in the written answers to the committee's questions on this bill and the clear technical briefing of the staff of her ministry. Let us point out that the PvdA Group welcomes the complete clarity of the bill on the prohibition of access to data for health insurance companies, occupational doctors, insurance doctors and medical examiners. People absolutely do not want their personal and medical data to come into the hands of these parties. This has been demonstrated not only in the preparation of this bill, but also in the reactions of people to Bill 33980, which deals, among other things, with the use of medical data for the fight against fraud by health insurance companies. A tricky point in dealing with this law is that the Minister is asking us to agree to the whole law, while it contains a number of articles of law which are already known that healthcare providers will not be able to act in accordance with these articles in the coming years. This concerns both the specified consent in electronic exchange of client data and Article IIA which refers to the AMvB with privacy requirements and references to NEN standards. This raises a number of questions about the implementation and feasibility of the law. The question is also how we as the First Chamber are involved in the follow-up process. The Minister repeatedly stressed in the responses to the questions raised by this Chamber that it was important that this bill should enter into force as soon as possible in order to clarify to the field parties how to deal with the use, processing of client data and the rules of play applicable to the electronic exchange of this data. Field parties such as the Patient Federation Netherlands, the KNMP, the Reuma Fund, the PCOB, the Union KBO and earlier ActiZ also demand this clarity. They indicate that this will help to make progress in achieving systems and agreements on specified electronic data exchange. Other parties expressed their reservations and objections to this bill in writing and in the hearing. They deal with several issues: the fear of increasing administrative burdens, the uncertainty about the rules of the game that will apply with specified permission, the fear that privacy will come into play when data is stored in the cloud and about objections to making the NEN standards mandatory in the AMvB at all or now. To begin with, the draft of the said AMvB still has to be submitted to the two Chambers of the States General. The PvdA Group is curious when the Minister expects to be able to offer the AMvB. The Minister has already stated in the note on the report that the AMvB "mandatory reference" is made to NEN standards 7510, 7512 and 7513, and that the AMvB includes compliance with, I quote, "the latest state of science and technology of privacy-enhancing measures." This raises a number of questions. How does the Minister intend to realise that all healthcare institutions always comply with "the latest state of technology and science of privacy-enhancing measures"? Although this ambition sounds attractive, the question is how to implement such a provision. Moreover, it seems reasonable to us to give care institutions sufficient time to adapt their systems when new privacy-enhancing measures become available. I would like a response from the Minister on these points. To questions from our group about the time provided by healthcare providers to comply with all privacy requirements, the government responds in the note following the report that the AMvB can enter into force at the same time as the legislative proposal. We are curious as to how the Minister came to this conclusion. Especially now that this AMvB is not yet available. In addition, VGN and ActiZ stated in their letter that they are not involved in the creation of the AMvB that deals with the privacy aspects, do not yet know the concept of the AMvB and that their members have not yet been able to form an opinion. They expect their member institutions to need at least one year to meet the requirements of the AMvB. If it were true that most institutions in long-term care do not yet comply with the NEN standards, this would mean that almost all institutions are certainly more than 600 institutions - in the long-term care after immediate entry into force of the AMvB in the introduction of the law acting in violation of the law. That doesn't seem like the PvdA's intention. It will give the client false security and potentially unintentional clients a sense of insecurity rather than safety about how to deal with the data that their healthcare provider has recorded or wants to share with other healthcare providers. The question also shows that the introduction period of one year is common. This is also the deadline that healthcare providers, such as hospitals, needed to implement the NEN standards. In particular, the standard was 7510. Is it true that the industry associations in the care sector are not or only limited in their involvement in the development of the concept of AMvB? If so, why was that chosen? Can the Minister indicate how many of the institutions in the care of the elderly and the disabled have already implemented the NEN standard 7510 and in its extension NEN 7512 and/or 7513? Is the Minister prepared to agree to allow the AMvB to enter into force only in 2018 in the context of its feasibility to give institutions sufficient time to meet the requirements of the AMvB? Then the articles relating to the specified consent. The Minister proposes that the provisions on specified consent and the provisions on electronic access and copies should not enter into force until three years after the introduction of the law. These are Articles 15a, c, d and e. We would ask the Minister to explain how it has reached a period of three years and what factors determine whether the said period is real. In doing so, we kindly ask the Minister to address four specific points: The Ministry and the relevant field parties indicated at the end of 2015 that it would take a year for it to be clear whether the specified consent would be technically possible. We're almost a year away by now. We would like to hear from the Minister about the state of the exploration of the feasibility of the specified consent and how it is now looking at the moment when the said articles should come into force. Furthermore, following the report, the Minister states that the availability of public and private means of authentication at a high level of reliability is essential to give clients electronic access to their files. Others were talking about that, too. Pilots are currently being carried out. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has now informed the House of Representatives about the pilot conditions and criteria. In its letter of June last year, the VWS Minister established a link between the speed with which these resources are being developed and the introduction of the deferred parts of Article 15. Does this mean that the introduction of these articles cannot continue as long as these authentication tools are not available? We have received many reactions from people who fear that this bill is an erosion of self-determination over their data and that the privacy of their medical data by storing the data in the cloud is at stake. What is the Minister's response to the concerns expressed by these people? Finally, in response to questions from GroenLinks, the Minister states in the note following the report that some institutions will now be able to operate with specified consent about ten hospitals earlier than the three years mentioned above. The said provisions of Article 15 shall not yet apply. How can it be ensured that these situations are conducted in accordance with the law and that these institutions are governed by the provisions governing their actions and the design of the systems? In view of the responsibility this Chamber has for assessing the quality and feasibility of legislation, we would ask the Minister to inform us periodically, for example every year, of the progress of the pathways initiated to ensure that the deferred sections of Article 15 come into force in three years' time. In addition, we would ask the Minister to enter into consultation with this Chamber should circumstances arise which would prevent the introduction of these articles within three years. The question then arises as to whether and, if so, how to do justice to the broad wish of this and the House of Representatives to allow clients to decide for themselves who will have access to data about them collected and shared in health care. The question is also what will happen if unexpectedly in the coming months or years it turns out that it will be possible to work with specified consent in a simple, large-scale and secure manner. Our final questions are about the role of the ministry in the steps that need to be taken to create a working system in which all Dutch people have confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mrs Nooren keeps saying that it is so important that the patient becomes the owner of the data and that he will determine who he wants to share it with and who he doesn't. I see a dilemma in this too, because the patient does not always know who should have what data. What doesn't always make sense to me as a patient is sometimes badly needed. Does Mrs Nooren also see this dilemma and how does she intend to resolve it if the patient has total control over the sharing of data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u46	I will put a number of questions to the Minister on this, because I acknowledge that this is the issue. At the same time, it is a responsibility of the Ministry and healthcare providers to properly inform people about why it is necessary, just as it is now. There must always be a dialogue about what needs to be done, no matter how you do it. That's no different than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u47	I understand that it is no different than now, but now the direction lies with my GP or specialist who decides with me on further research; he will then share the data. It is, of course, two-fold. There may be pressure where it is not necessary and I can remember where it should be needed. How do we ensure that nothing goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u48	It's a misunderstanding that I wouldn't be going over my medical records right now. I can go to a health care provider every day and get a copy of my medical records. As weird as it is, I can even put that on the Internet. That situation doesn't change because of this bill. However, this legislative proposal contains a number of provisions, such as the NEN standard 7510, which say a lot about how to handle data even wider than electronic data and what rules apply to it. The essence, in my opinion, is that we expect healthcare providers to have a dialogue on what information is needed to provide good care. This is regulated in the training and in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. This bill does not change that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u49	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u50	I have to conclude that I am not getting an answer to my question. It is precisely how we incorporate these safeguards into the system that we say that the patient is the one who manages and controls all the data and that he decides who they are shared with. That is a slightly different situation than it is now, since we do have the right to request our file and we can decide on changes, additions and even removal. It's all possible, but it's in the health insurance company's computer and it's not in my computer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u51	In my opinion, this bill is not about whether the file is in the hands of the patient or the client. The proposal before us today is about determining who will share the data available from providers via a push or pull system. That's as far as this bill goes. It seems important to the PvdA Group that the VWS Ministry should play a stimulating and, if necessary, guiding role in meeting the ambitions of this bill and that the Ministry should involve and facilitate all field parties. Does the Minister recognise this interest? And if so, how is she going to fill this role? And if not, what is her confidence based on that without the active involvement of VWS care wide both the privacy aspects of working with and sharing electronic client data and the specified consent will be achieved as soon as possible? Finally, on behalf of the PvdA Group, I would ask for specific attention to be paid to the way people are being prepared for the choices they can make to provide data that a healthcare provider records about them. When you talk to people about this bill, the ideas and expectations vary greatly. You come across people who value the fact that they are dealing with the question of who gets what information about them and who attach great importance to their decision. In addition, there are many people who think that their caregivers can already access all their data. Then there are people who assume that if they give permission in one place and then it is usually about their pharmacy or general practitioner they have arranged that every health care provider they will need in their lives has all the necessary information. How will the Ministry ensure that all Dutch people get a good idea of the content and meaning of this bill and are well guided in the choices they can make? And how do we prevent people from becoming dependent on the way in which individual healthcare professionals look at the bill, in particular with regard to making medical data available to other healthcare providers, providing information to clients from their files and their use? I'll come to a conclusion. The Client Rights Bill in electronic data processing can make an important contribution to the information security of healthcare systems and the individual right of disposal of the information collected about them by healthcare providers. In order to achieve a functioning system, it is essential that the technical conditions are realised as quickly and safely as possible, but above all that all parties want to put their shoulders on it to ensure that implementation is carried out as quickly as possible and that people are adequately supported in their choices. According to my group, the VWS Ministry will continue to play a crucial stimulating and facilitating role on the road from idea to practice in the coming years. It assumes that the Minister and the Ministry are willing to do so and looks forward to the Minister's answers to her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long history and has its origins in rejecting the electronic patient file in the First Chamber because the guarantees of that electronic patient file were not sufficient. The Minister then gave the free hand to private parties to develop the EPD, something that was already going on during the EPD discussion. Some parties will say that the electronic patient file is long overdue and that if we do not lay down detailed rules, the safeguards are insufficient and the patient is poorly protected. The question before us is whether this bill provides better protection for the patient. In my speech, I will focus on three issues: what are the problems facing the SP? These themes are: 1. giving generic or specified consent, 2. the right of access to the file, and 3. the e-health companies and their interests. I'll start with the permission issue. In the discussion on the electronic patient file, the First Chamber clearly told the Minister that it did not want generic consent. It also stated that the patient has the right to decide whether or not to give consent. The patient's interests always formed the background to this dossier, namely the prevention of errors due to lack of knowledge of the file, as well as the ease of the patient who does not have to repeat her whole story over and over again, although this may be in the patient's best interest, but that may be on the side. One of the points of discussion is whether or not to grant generic consent. No sane person is in favour of generic consent. Both chambers have also expressed their views on this issue clearly in the past. Moreover, it is illegal to grant that generic authorisation. However, the law is so broad that it can easily lead to generic consent. Generic consent is undesirable and the Minister now wants to send a clear signal. So it comes up with a law to put pressure on industry, which must have regulated the specified consent within three years in its systems. In three years' time, it must really be settled, because then that part of the law will come into force, which has now been repealed. Until then, however, generic consent is required. What happens if no specified consent is possible within those three years? Do we then retain the generic consent? I like to be clear about that. Subsequently, a number of parties called on the First Chamber to wait a while with this law, because it is not yet clear whether the specified consent is possible or workable at all. What if they're right? Why not wait until the time is clearer that specified consent is possible in the way we want? If the specified consent is indeed not possible within three years, will this part of the law be suspended any longer? Does the Minister then arrive on a shortcut at a situation where, in the opinion of the First Chamber, the protection of the patient is not adequately regulated? What exactly is that specified permission? Can the Minister explain this? That the granting of specified permission has quite a few feet in the earth, was already demonstrated by the plea of the LHV which states that the patient must give very much consent. Patients should be able to specify authorisation at a very detailed level which may require a large number of consents. The question is how to keep an overview of what you have or have not given permission for. In the end, the patient will have three choices: to open up everything, to open up a section according to the rules as described or to close everything. My question is whether the patient can properly assess the risks involved in giving consent or not. I believe that the majority of patients cannot look into a glass ball and therefore cannot know what consent might be possible in the future. That conversation should be held in the general practitioner's office. My feeling tells me that this should not only be easier, but also safer. The pressure on the patient to release everything so that he or she will not miss anything will be great. Three weeks ago, I had to get my youngest child medication at the hospital pharmacy because my usual pharmacy didn't have it in stock. I was asked if the child was connected to the LSP. It is not, and I specifically chose this because of the privacy sensitivity. Then I was told that the medicine could not be given; that was only possible if the child was connected to the LSP. At a time like this, you're scared, especially when that drug is needed, and that's it. Luckily, I was able to regroup and tell you what medication my child had. I got the medicine after all. However, I wonder how many people are able to take that step. I'm telling you this to illustrate the pressure of the parties to release and unlock files, and not to stick to the non-sharing of that data. Digitising those files is a fact and a process that cannot be stopped. By the way, this is already worth a policy debate. I refer to the complaints of, for example, VU doctors who lose their freedom of choice in the treatment of the patient as the system requires them to do their job. The question is whether this digitization is done in the best possible way for the patient. It's true, it provides more protection than paper files I see lying around the desks at the hospital. No, that's not very privacy-minded, I agree with Mr Bruijn. But if anyone sees my file there and has the chance to go through it, then a few of them know about my file and not the whole world. That is the risk of a system full of big data: in a hack everything is on the street. I challenge the Minister to convince me that such a system can be set up safely and unhackable. That's impossible, that's impossible. So it's up to the government to get the developer to think about how to set up these systems safely. So that's not with big data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u53	Apart from the fact that the SP in the Lower House the motion in part No. 35 which states that the exchange of medical data, regardless of the exchange system used, can be secured in a foolproof manner. My group in the House of Representatives did not vote in favour of this, after all, is the question to Mrs Gerkens whether we are going to introduce systems with this legislative proposal or whether we are going to secure existing systems as well and as badly as we can. The latter seems to me to be the case. I share Mrs Gerkens' concerns and interpret them as a plea to introduce this law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u54	Yes, Mr Bruijn, you and I differ. We agree that protection is not properly regulated at the moment. We agree that this should be done much better. However, I disagree with you that this law regulates this. On the contrary, I believe that the law further worsens the patient's position. I would have preferred the Minister to have come up with a law that would provide that security. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u55	So you are actually in favour of speeding up the implementation of, for example, Article 15c, which at least ensures that the patient is properly informed before entering the path of electronic data exchange?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u56	I am in favour of legislation that can be implemented. I would like to have legislation when, for example, we can give specified consent. I would like to see patients' rights better described than they are now. The question is, however, what are we going to do with all patient data, the pressure of big data to release that data to other parties? This bill does not provide a solution. In fact, this bill does indeed point towards the technique of a nationwide switching point while there are so many other possibilities. With the Personal Data Protection Act there are already so many safeguards. They are sufficient to provide the protection we already have. We simply do not need this legislation. We do not aim systems safely with big data, not with a central switching point where everything comes together and eventually everything is tied together, even though there are bulkheads between them. And unfortunately not with a system where the patient can log in via a portal at home; a system where PrivacyCare, asked by the VWS Ministry to investigate eID, says that the required level of security cannot be achieved widely. When 17 million people get access to a system, it's only a matter of time before it's cracked. And yes, there are people who make their living with this. It is worrying that so little has been done by e-health companies to tackle this problem. Alternatives are conceivable and alternatives are also being developed that do not require this legislation. They already have enough of the current legislation, but these alternatives do not come from large companies and that makes them think. What this minister and the Chamber should be thinking about is how IT companies are used to dealing with our data. Because they don't. Not so long ago I heard from a large IT company that the procurement of smart energy meters had won in Britain that it doesn't matter to the customer if that company can see whether or not you're home at 3:00 a.m. I told them who are you for me to decide? This is precisely the crux of this debate. The way we set up the law now, we surrender to those e-health companies. They determine the degree of protection. There's no NEN standard against that. That protection abandons the Minister by introducing the digital copy. I'd like to think about this one more time. It seems to be a fantastic development. We can look into our files in real time and we can also download those data. But what does that even mean? That means that data that is now covered by professional secrecy is going to be stored neatly with the health care provider on my own computer. I can then upload that data in the cloud or read it in my app, which tells me what's going on with my health. I downloaded that app, a nice free gift from the playstore. I didn't realize, by the way, that I have now given that data to the developer of the app, who then sells it to my health insurance company. Nothing illegal about it. It's okay. It's okay. And I predict that in ten years' time there will be a parliamentary inquiry into how it could have happened. I hear the e-health companies rolling over each other to make this legislation come about. The Minister can of course say that it is up to the patient himself to handle these dates wisely, but then I ask her when she last read the terms of the app she downloaded. I ask the Minister why she has opted for legislation that is almost forcing the electronic patient file. It is recognised that initiatives are also being developed at the moment in which the patient actually owns his data and together with the general practitioner, the centre of our healthcare system, can decide that people can see that data at the time they need it, without rigging up the horror we are currently working on. Does it also recognise that this can be done within the current legislation? Does she also recognise that this can be done without losing our data to commercial parties? Developments are worrying, also in the light of the latest developments in the EU's Privacy Directive, where the general Data Protection Regulation was adopted by the European Parliament on 5 April. This will largely replace the Personal Data Protection Act. Therefore, paragraph 26 states that this Regulation does not concern the processing of anonymous or pseudonymised data, inter alia for statistical purposes or research purposes. I ask the Minister what this regulation means for the dates that e-health companies can collect from us. Can the Minister reflect on this regulation on connecting all patient data in a large big data system? It's already been mentioned. Recently, under the guise of anti-fraud, the Lower House decided to give the health insurance companies permission to look into patient files. Fortunately, we are going to talk about it, but it indicates the pressure of the legislator to access that data. That has to do with digitalization. Imagine if the health insurance company had asked 40 years ago, in the world of that time, for access to the files. So we went to our old GP's to look at the green maps. That would have cost the health insurance company more than the savings on the fraud itself. By developing this system, the LSP, an unnecessarily risky system, is the desire of a number of large parties who would like nothing more than a large documentation system in which they can then carry out research to their heart's content. These people do not have the patient in mind when developing the systems, but think of everything that might be possible. In the long run, anything is possible with this technique. Then the questions to use these data come to the public interest, to the doctor, to the healthcare professional, to the patient and to us. How solid are we gonna be in our shoes? Shouldn't we be ahead of that question and make sure that big bulk of data doesn't arise? We have sufficient legislation for the NEN standardisation and data exchange can already take place under the current WGBO and the Wbp. I'm closing up. The SP is very concerned about the bill. This bill, as I said at the beginning, stems from the desire of the First Chamber to give the patient better protection in digitizing his patient file. This law should give that patient more protection. But in the sum sum, not only do many loose ends remain; it also appears that this law initially deteriorates the position and that it is still unclear whether the law can ever be implemented. Would it not be wiser, I ask the Minister, to wait for that first. I also find the argument that Mr Bruijn is using this law to put pressure on people to develop things more quickly, and perhaps we should introduce the specified consent rather than a little wishful thinking, as if we could put so much pressure on the technique itself that developments would go faster. I would also like to include in the law that teletransport will be possible next year, but I do not see that happening so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u57	For clarity, this was not my argument. This was the argument of various field parties, which we invited here together at an information meeting and which repeatedly raised. What is the solution for Mrs Gerkens to the problem she faced when she and her son were at that pharmacy and there was an LSP? Is the solution that we're going to ban it? It already exists. It is not introduced by this law. Does she want us to go back to paper files? Or is the solution a better information by, for example, the general practitioner about the existence of such an LSP with that affiliated pharmacist at the time when Mrs Gerkens sat with her son with the general practitioner who wrote the recipe. In the latter, this law provides for Article 15c.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u58	The recipe was written by a specialist, but this aside. There's a third possibility, and I'm advocating it here. It is that there will be a system that I have so much faith in that I can say: yes, share that data, because that is necessary. The current systems and also the systems proposed in this bill do not give me that confidence. They give way too many risks. Those systems are there; they are developed by the universities. I call Whitebox. I think there's another way. It's not or-or. There's a third way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u59	No systems are proposed in this law. Now let's get this misunderstanding out of the way. The systems are already here. There's always new ones. This law lays down requirements there that meet the concerns I share with Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u60	This law responds to the concerns of the LSP system. Those concerns aren't with the other systems. It's systemicly fine to work with. So then it is also true what the PVV says, namely that this law is indeed written on the basis of the LSP. I'll make the sum. Here is a bill that can count on widespread unrest in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u61	Mrs Gerkens says that she is advocating a third option, namely a system that is so safe and trustworthy that she would like to join. When does she find it sufficiently safe and trustworthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u62	I find this a little difficult, because before you know it, I'm advertising systems that are under development. There are systems that rely much less on that generic consent, where you handle push and pull much wiser than you do now. In these systems, with the double authentication as a patient, I can say again whether or not I want a doctor to be able to see certain data. That doesn't have to be done with large bulk data being "pulled." It all sounds weird, but I mean that the data is drawn out as it were. This can be done much more tailor-made and in much better consultation with the general practitioner and the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u63	In fact, I hear you say that you are going more towards specific consent at a time than to specified consent. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u64	That's right. There is, of course, great confusion about what exactly is specified consent and what specific consent is. Those concepts are also very vague. That is what you asked for in your term of office. So I don't really know what I'm saying yes to. But if we think we know what it means, I'll say yes. I'll make the sum. Here is a legislative proposal that is subject to widespread unrest in cooperation; a legislative proposal that parties such as Amnesty International, the Civil Rights Foundation and the Dutch Legal Committee on Human Rights say no to which the sector says that the concept of specified consent is unclear or does not seem feasible at the moment, which is asking for a postponement until it is clear whether this bill is possible at all, and above all the sector believes that it is a proposal that does not respect patient protection. That we can do it differently, we've seen. There are sufficient initiatives that can count on the support of the sector, which better protect patients and at the same time allow them to manage their own files. It is still a mystery why this minister does not give these innovative initiatives a chance to pass legislation that ultimately steers an electronic patient file old style, which is technically also a freak and quite old. It will be very difficult for my party to support this bill. I look forward to the Minister's response to our concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u65	We continue to puzzle about how this bill, which is actually aimed at strengthening the position of the client and tightening up the requirements that every healthcare provider must meet when storing, processing and providing data to another person, stands in the way of the developments that Mrs Gerkens outlines and which are of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u66	First of all, there is already enough legislation that makes demands on how to store privacy-sensitive data. We really do not need this legislation for that. It's covered. Why do I think this is a deterioration? Because by definition we allow generic consent in the next few years. I find it striking that I don't hear a lot of people talking about it. There's more talk about caring about what happens after three years. But I find it incomprehensible that we want to allow generic consent for three years, something that we have said in this Chamber that we do not want. The possibility of a digital copy for the patient involves major risks. That's what I'm really worried about, because there's gonna be pressure on the patient to upload those data into the internet of things or they're gonna be used for apps with data about what you eat and how you walk. What happens to those dates? By definition, they're outlaws. They'll be sold. I advise the members to look at the Counter-Light program last Sunday. This makes it very clear what people want to do with these data. I also recommend reading the book "I do have something to hide" by The Correspondent. It makes it very clear that these dates are worth gold. We have to protect the patient for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u67	I think there's been a misunderstanding. This bill is about data that healthcare providers, healthcare providers or aid workers have in their files. They are subject to the BIG Act and to the Medical Treatment Agreement Act and to the Privacy Act. The legislative proposal, as I see it, aims to add something to the requirements of electronic processing. Mrs Gerkens says that this is already contained in legislation. Then I am curious to see where the requirements imposed on healthcare providers are now mandatory in the et via the AMvB with NEN 7510, 7512 and 7513. Those are field standards and not legal obligations. So where is that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u68	It's true. Mr Ganzevoort rightly said that these field standards are set in the Wpb. In the Wpb, however, there are indeed requirements on how personal data are processed. It doesn't say exactly what standards that should be. By the way, there is already a code of conduct by the IGZ. It contains codes of conduct for the standards used. So the field is already taking that very well. A NEN standard doesn't say everything about safety either, because even then it's crackable. The Green Heart Hospital met NEN standards when it was cracked. This does not mean everything either, but the Personal Data Protection Act clearly states that an appropriate form of security must be chosen when processing personal data. As far as this appropriate form is concerned, I know that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is very strict. We have enough guarantees as it is. You also said that it concerns the data available to a doctor or someone else who is BIG registered. That is true, but the bill also offers the possibility of a digital copy, with which the professional secrecy lapses. After all, then the patient has the data on his PC and the patient has no professional secrecy. So he can do with the data what he or she wants. I had just had a little debate with Mrs Bredenoord about the extent to which the patient is able to assess how sensitive those data are. My point is that a large group of people unfortunately do not know that. Perhaps we should say, as with the seat belt, that we make it legally mandatory to handle data sharing with others with caution. I don't see that in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u69	Mrs. Nooren, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u70	Indeed, this bill is not about what someone does with their own data. It is about how the healthcare provider handles the data. I believe that you are in favour of another bill, namely a proposal on how people deal with their medical records.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u71	That's right, that's legislation that might have been here, but it's not there. However, a digital copy is made possible, making it much easier to share data. By definition, this bill makes the patient's position more unsafe. Good regulation of data in the patient's possession could have prevented that, but there isn't. That's why I'm saying this bill is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mrs. Martens, briefly. I'm not saying this specifically to you, but in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u73	I get it, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gerkens pleads, if I listen carefully, for something like patient secrecy or no inspection at all. Mrs Gerkens says: I think it is unsafe now, so I don't want it; I don't trust it and I don't trust it to work out. Actually, she doesn't have any faith in technology. She says, "Look at Amnesty." Is it true that she considers the letter of Amnesty and others more important than that of ActiZ, V&VN, KNMG, KNMP, LEVV, Nictiz, Patient Federation Netherlands and NVZ together? They say that this perspective is important, because otherwise nothing will happen; technology can do a lot and nothing will happen if we do not set standards. Amnesty and others are more important than these organisations together. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u74	I find the comparison you make strange, as if some organisations are more important than others. I think both sides are saying something important. The question then is which side the scale is going to go to. We all agree that the field of work should develop this in a good way. This is not going in the right direction, because we are focusing on a form that the Chamber has said: rather not. In the end, however, human rights outweigh the question of how quickly or in what way we develop a system. Human rights must be guaranteed in that system. When human rights organisations say that they have great concerns about this, I let the scale go to that side and say: first remove those concerns before we proceed with this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u75	I have the confidence that the organizations I just mentioned are looking at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mrs. Bredenoord, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u77	I have a quick question. Basically, if I want, I can put very compromising information about myself on the Internet, also health information from my patient portal. I am curious to know what solution you are proposing. Banning me from putting information about myself on the Internet goes a long way. Besides, there's also something like a right to be forgotten. So basically you can get things back. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u78	You want to be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u79	Yes, please, briefly. That really depends on the time. It's very interesting, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u80	It's true that you can pull files. They are generally not digitized, which is given in the paper version. Digitalizing means that you can share data much easier. It's about whether the patient realizes what gold he's holding. I think we need to make sure that people are aware of that. Maybe we should look at a patient secret. I think that's an interesting option. We need to find out how we better protect data: how do you deal with it? I can talk about it for another half an hour, but the president doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u81	No, the chairman doesn't want that. Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I now give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are very curious about Mr Bredenoord's compromising information, but that will have to happen some other time. Mr. Chairman. If this law regulates in a fairly clear way such important matters as customer rights in the care of the electronic exchange of data and, moreover, it does so in a fairly formal manner, it is not about a specific system but about cross-compliance. How can it be that the Minister has not succeeded in getting all hands together since the proposal was submitted on 21 December 2012? First one and a half years in the House of Representatives and now we are working here for two years. Both the Chamber and the government needed more time on a regular basis. Parts had to be deleted or were not allowed to enter into force, etc. Today we have the preliminary final debate which should lead to an opinion on the proposal. I will not repeat everything that has already been discussed in this whole process, but I will try to peel the balances a little bit and find an answer to the following question: did Schipper's mountain give birth to a mouse? After all the heavy words, is there a bill left that really represents something, or are we looking at the emperor's clothes today? There has been some regular discussion about the importance of the electronic exchange of data in healthcare. We share it. The pharmacist regularly passed by, just like the doctor who wants to submit certain images or data to colleagues for his diagnosis. In my view, this merely distracts attention from the question we are facing today. This law does not regulate the exchange of information by electronic means. It is assumed that this is already happening. Yes, you may have questions about the scope and the whole process, because this law points a certain direction by channeling things. Not in the law, but in the discussions there is quite a roaring talk about how many millions are now connected to the ISP. We do not know how active these connections are or how important that is. Even if it is not the core of the law, I ask the Minister how many people it is important to be in a consultable system, so a pull system. Do we want everyone to end up in one of those systems, or not? Or perhaps the Minister shares my group's view that it is particularly important for people with complex care needs and for those who are less able to communicate their own needs and care history? I have the impression that it can be very important for vulnerable groups. Honestly, I don't see any reason why my personal data should be consultable. I do know that the Minister doesn't know my file... no, I hope the Minister doesn't know my file, because we never know for sure with all the data available. Does the Minister think I should be a member of the ISP? Or should we discuss with each other whether we should be more cautious and do it only on the basis of need? In many cases, a push system is more than sufficient, also from a realization that too much sensitive information is already leaking out about us. How do we prevent people from giving far too broad consent under pressure from healthcare providers or insurance companies? A few times I was asked at the pharmacy genericly whether they could share data from me. In such a case, I say that's not how the law works. Not everyone knows that, however. Although the proposal is not about the ISP, the pressure is already high in practice. What does the Minister intend to do about this? That's not the most important question. Data exchange is already taking place and this bill regulates the rights of clients. There's nothing wrong with that intention. The question is whether this proposal is necessary in view of that intention. Then the serious questions arise. What actually regulates this bill which is not already in the WGBO and the Wbp? Then we get the answer that it is mainly a specification of the precise standards. But why does it have to be in a separate law? The answer is that the law does set the framework for how information technology should be used to guarantee customer rights. However, this law does not add anything to those frameworks, since the real clarifications will be included in the AMvB, which, on the basis of Article 26 of the Wbp, will "determine the specific functional, technical and organisational requirements for electronic data exchange in general." This law doesn't do that. What will be new arrangements then? Is the specified consent a very complex concept, as it turned out in the hearing and in the discussions....................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, the right of access is not, at most, the electronic form. The idea of a portal in which clients can keep their own consent? Perhaps, but that is not regulated by the law as such. It is also controversial in the proposed form because of the huge risk of data leaks. Besides, all those cases that really do something for client rights are being postponed. Specified permission? Not yet. In fact, for the first three years generic consent applies, and that is what we did not want. Electronic access? Not yet. An electronic copy? Not yet. Permission to ask questions for consultation is perceived as double-up. In short, all those elements that really have something to do with client rights are not yet in place. What's left? The prohibition for health insurers to consult data. It's already in place. The question is, is this really something new? Are health insurance companies allowed to consult medical data now? Isn't that already forbidden under the WGBO? I'm asking the Minister for a response. Perhaps then she can take a point that has already been mentioned, including by representatives here in the Chamber of a party who supported the bill in the House of Representatives, namely how to weigh the importance of this proposal, now that, on the basis of a newly received bill, health insurance companies are more easily able to access patient data if they suspect fraud. That's circumstantial, but still. How credible is this minister if she puts these two legislative proposals side by side? How serious is it to take that this bill is important because it does not deprive the health insurance company of the right to access health records when the Minister at the same time arranges that health insurers may indirectly do so? My group's hesitation is increasing. What began with a good intention, seems to have resulted in a, at best, meaningless proposal. The good aspects are already regulated elsewhere, the specifications are not put into effect and the last remaining light point pales. That is why the hearing also specifically raised the question of why it is now important to adopt the legislative proposal. When you hear the experts, it appears not only that they disagree, but also that some look at the good intentions, others at the unfeasible effect and others at the poor harvest. At best, this proposal sets out the frameworks within which further technical development can take place. In fact, I do not hear any further arguments for this proposal from colleagues here. If we adopt this law, everyone knows that it will have to be settled in three years' time, within these frameworks, that's the idea. By the way, these frameworks remain very vague. If this law does not really add anything to the WGBO and the Wbp, if the concretization takes place elsewhere, namely in an AMvB based on the Wbp and if we also have no idea of the technological innovations over the next three years, including possibilities and associated risks, what are we doing if we adopt a law? I think that is a fundamental question, also in view of the role of the First Chamber. Apart from the intentions that we can share with each other, and regardless of whether it is perhaps a dot on the horizon that is worth it: should we do so with legislation? Over the past two years, the Minister has had every opportunity in the world to convince us of the usefulness and necessity of this law. We're not against the intentions at all. We'll share it. The Minister has not convinced us or the experts that this bill adds anything. Moreover, it has not shown that it is feasible and enforceable. That is why, in the written round, we asked whether it would not be better to keep the proposal. What is going to happen if this law does not enter into force at all for the time being and if a data exchange directive is simply being worked on in the field? With the Wbp and the WGBO in your hand, come up with further guidelines to steer the field in the right direction. What will go wrong if we give the Minister the chance to come up with a law on client rights that actually regulates client rights? So not "that way in three years, hopefully," but just take care of it. So far the Minister has not convinced us, but the day is still long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr Ganzevoort. Oh, Mr Bruijn wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr Ganzevoort touched on the proportionality of the law. If I understood correctly, he suggested that the electronic exchange of data should be limited to complex cases. Today, electronic data from patients via push and pull systems are being exchanged widely between specialists and general practitioners, between pharmacists and doctors, between doctors and between patients and doctors. What exactly does Mr Ganzevoort mean by limiting to complex systems? This means that Mrs Gerkens' son can no longer be included in an electronic file and that his data cannot be exchanged. What's a complex case? How are we supposed to see that? The proportionality of this law is precisely something that is very clear, given the massity of the exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u85	I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u86	The question is clear, but it is not what I said. That also makes the answer quite clear. I did not say that this law should be limited to that. I have said that you may wonder whether the movement towards a large-scale operation of, for example, the LSP, which is said to have so many millions of members, and in which it sounds that it is desirable for it to become much wider, is the desirable direction. If there are no complicated medical issues at all, as in my case, I can say so openly here, because it is not compromising.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u87	Very briefly, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u88	This is a really dangerous thought. There are many more systems than the National Switchpoint. There are letters going back and forth between general practitioners and specialists. For example, we have the PALGA system. I'm dealing with that myself. If we limit that to complex cases, we go back to the Stone Age when it comes to the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u89	But I didn't say that at all. I was talking about the movement that is going on in the discussion. That's why I said it was an example, because this law is about the framework of the total. In the movement that is going on, it is always stimulated that via the LSP all these connections are already there. That's what's in all the discussions. Mr Bruijn can also read that. Is such a large-scale pull system, whatever you use, really desirable? I have great hesitation in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u90	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Chairman. What's better for a patient than a man who's omniscient? What's nicer than a man who's omnipotent? If it were that simple, the law on the electronic patient file in 2011 would have been passed without any doubt in this house. In reality, the proposal was rejected unanimously. There were good reasons to ask the government for additional assurances, and the result is that we are again discussing a law today which contains a large number of objections between dream and act. This was also apparent at the expert meeting on 5 April. Although it is by no means my intention to repeat that meeting today, it seems good to mention a number of pressing objections which live within my group, partly motivated by the objections that have been raised there. The KNMG and the National Family Doctors Association confirmed that the request, registration and compliance with the specified consent in healthcare practice is currently technically and organizationally not feasible. They expect that in a few months' time there will be more clarity through the research projects carried out on enforcement and feasibility. They were therefore surprised at the punitive pace with which this law had to be passed. Why don't we wait a little longer, after such a long process of law? The representative of the Patient Perspective is concerned about the phased entry into force. We share that concern. Why are some provisions being introduced now and not an adequate law at once? What does the introduction of those few provisions add? The BoZ, Branch Organisations Care, talks about serious pain points that increase the distance between doctor, nurse and patient, and make major investments. The industry organisation advocates that care should not become the stepchild of the privacy policy. Finally, the Consumers' Association is concerned about the way in which the management function has been implemented and wants the patient to be at the heart of the project and to be in charge of it. The central conclusion is that we must now introduce something whose feasibility and enforcement will only be clear in a few months' time. My group does not need a hull law pending more clarity, but first wants clarity and then legislation with additional conditions. That is also because there are many dangers in the linking of files. Similar is the bill 33980 adopted by the House of Representatives on 13 September 2016, the amendment of the Market Regulation Health Services Act. This amendment makes the possibility of abolishing medical professional secrecy in the interests of combating fraud de facto complete. In the event of suspected fraud, health insurers may check the medical records to check whether the doctor is messing with the declaration, whether or not with the patient. Where the electronic patient file died because it contained disproportionate risks to privacy, bill 33980 will soon be dealt with in this house. That doesn't happen today, but the bill is a perfect illustration of what could go wrong in the connection of files. Moreover, it is contradictory to deprive health insurers of the right to access files while at the same time facilitating access in another legislative proposal. Can the Minister clarify this contradiction? There are alternatives to which there are no dangers to privacy and lack of control. Mrs Gerkens already referred to it. In this sense, the Animal Party strongly supports the views of the security researcher of Whitebox Systems, Guido van 't Noordende, who explained in De Volkskrant last week why the minister, in his view, puts patients' privacy and health at risk. He's worried about that one central registration system. We also believe that the structure of the law leads to that system, whereby the citizen releases his medical data to a large group of unrecognizable professionals for him or her, but also to hackers who can find out so much about a patient. It is a large-scale consent portal in which everyone can indicate their personal preferences for exchange, but which also involves major security and privacy risks. Citizens must consider in advance who will have access to their medical records. Healthy people do not know which helpers they need in the near or future. The citizen must therefore choose between three evils: to open everything up in case, to protect all data in the context of "you never know," or to open files only to a few caregivers and thus almost always to the wrong person because you do not know what you are going to happen to. A patient must choose from a raffle with mere staples and actually, by definition, makes the wrong choice, or at least a choice he cannot oversee. According to Van 't Noordende, it would be much easier if the data didn't come into one central system, but would remain in the database of your own doctor. The patient could get a code to give other treating doctors access to his data, to record on a pass, a bracelet or in a smartphone, as simple as your DigiD. In the case of referral, the doctor may send a code to the specialist to access relevant data. This proposal does not require any legislative amendment. There are also no major costs involved and according to Van 't Noordende the system is privacy proof. This is therefore entirely in line with the broad support that existed in this house for the Tan motion calling for an electronic health card that provides the patient with safety and insight in the exchange of patient data. The also widely supported Tan motion asking for no more organizational or financial contribution to the National Disability Point also shows how great the shudder was in this house to widely share electronic patient data in the manner proposed at the time. For this reason, in particular, my group is surprised that so many recognizable elements of the proposal that was rejected at the time have yet to be incorporated into the regulation that is now before us. Can the Minister reflect on Guido van 't Noorden's solution and indicate where she feels the need to adopt a hull law now, the result of which is still unclear?
