ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the law that regulates the introduction of a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims. This law regulates a great deal. I'd like to highlight a few things. Victims will be more entitled to information about the start and progress of the case and will be more involved. Victims are given the right to information about the release or escape of a suspect or convicted person. Victims may be assisted by a lawyer during the preparatory examination and the trial. It also examines whether victims should be protected if necessary. Family members of victims are also given the right to protection of victim assistance. Employees working with victims are trained in this. These are just a number of points in the directive that are contained in this law. Perhaps the Minister will skip his introduction after I have listed all of this, but I would like to mention this. The Minister is keen, I see, so we will get a nice explanation from him about this law. The SP is very pleased with this law, but we also have a number of questions. That is why we rejected this bill at the time. As I said in the debate on victim policy last week, care for victims can always be better. I have a number of points on which I have questions and suggestions. In Amsterdam, for example, a pilot study has been carried out into ways of increasing the willingness to report to combat crime. It has been found that illegal aliens do not dare to report, while they are entitled to the desired support and rights. At that time, there was more and better commitment to clear communication about this arrangement. There's more investment in trust. This resulted in an increase in the declarations. It was so successful that they not only looked at this in Amsterdam, but also extended this pilot to Utrecht and Eindhoven. I thought that was good news, but I'm very curious about what came of this, including in the other cities. Will it be extended further? When can we expect more information about this? The group of spokespersons will be extended to include those who depend on the victim. The SP welcomes the extension of the group of spokespersons. However, a motion of my hand has been adopted on the right to speak at TBs sessions. This point would be included in a study that would be ready in early 2016. It is now early 2016 and the research should be ready. But let's face it: we don't really need an investigation to carry out a motion that has been passed by the House of Representatives. In fact, my question is not, therefore, when will that investigation be completed, but when will the Minister carry out the motion for a resolution? Since the beginning of 2015, Victim Help Netherlands has been involved in the work process of ZSM. In this way, victims are now also helped to claim the damage, among other things. Some victims were sometimes not seen at all before by victim support, but because they are involved in the work process of ZSM, this can be done now. That is good news, but the Minister states in his written response to this bill that not all regions have followed the working arrangements made. In short, victims do not have help from victims everywhere. When will that be settled? When was this fully implemented? Does he want to keep us informed? Then I get to the point of hearing studios. At present, disabled, intellectually limited and underage victims under 12 years of age are interrogated in a specialised hearing studio by trained specialist police interrogators. I myself went to work at those studios and was very impressed. You have to imagine that these people are specially trained to talk to children. I think it's a two-and-a-half-year training. It is not always easy, also because the police often do truth finding. So the questions can fall pretty raw on your roof. When you're just 13, you're not being interrogated by trained professionals in a cold, cold environment by the police themselves. Defence for Children advocates broadening the audience, so that children over 12 years of age can also be interviewed in such a hearing studio by specialist professionals who know how to do it. Can the Minister comment on this? In the Chamber we regularly deal with legislative proposals that ensure that the practice is spent a lot of time on new tasks. Strangely enough, the minister doesn't arrange extra capacity. That's how I've known many uncovered laws of this minister. I'm gonna run into that again today. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office is given an important role in the information obligation for the victim. There's gonna be a case co-ordinator who's gonna keep a close eye on this. I think it's good news that this case coordinator is here, but how much extra time has the D.A. lost with that? Is there enough capacity for that? We have also asked for deadlines at the Public Prosecutor's Office. A victim must also be informed about the progress of the case in time. I often hear that victims are informed very shortly in advance. We really need to avoid this, not only because of the timely incorporation into a case, but also because of the impact this can have on a person, on the victim himself. It's really hard for a victim to be confronted with the suspect again. That can be very intense, so timely information is very important. Finally, I'm talking about the capacity of the police. The minister made a promise not to just put new priorities in the national police force again, but this law is secretly again a decent tax on the police. A more in-depth impact analysis is currently being carried out on the impact of this Directive on police capacity. The Minister already knows that the impact can be substantial. For the moment, I do not see any substantial change in the way that the police actually gain capacity. In fact, the Minister is cutting 2,000 agents off. The minister said he's going to have an in-depth impact analysis on that. In two police regions a pilot is also used to gain more insight into the workload. It was supposed to start early this year. Is there anything to say about that? Is the Minister prepared to ensure, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, that the police have sufficient capacity to carry out this important task? Does he at least ensure that the police have sufficient time and resources to carry out their duties properly, such as protecting victims, informing them in good time and involving victims? That was a lot of points, but I have completed my contribution in time, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	Yeah, neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Ensuring the rights of victims is a natural part of our rule of law. The Dutch law already complies with the minimum standards of the European Directive on a number of points. However, I wonder whether the adjustments that are still needed and which the Minister is proposing today are sufficient. One of the first points I would like to raise is the individual assessment of victims which the directive requires in Article 22. The specific protection needs of a victim must be identified and met. He or she may have to be heard in a special room or contact with the defendant in court should be avoided. If you don't take that particular need into account, the protection is inadequate. That is why it is so important how this individual assessment is implemented in concrete terms. We do not know that now, because this is further regulated in an AMvB. That is why I ask the Minister if he can explain what we can expect from this AMvB. A second point of attention is the workload of the police. I agree with the above, because the practical effect of this individual assessment and protection is first and foremost to be found on the side of the police. The police have already stated that this costs 69 to 104 extra FTEs and that it apparently has to bear the costs. It's no secret in this house that the police are already running out of financial water. How can the Minister continue to carry out these additional tasks with the police without additional financial support, especially now that the practical development of the proposal for individual needs comes first of all from the police? In other words, are we going to have another financial surprise with the police? My third topic concerns the victim's family members. That is an important point, because family members can also be the victims of a crime committed against a loved one. For D66 the family today consists of more than just relatives; they can also be the stepfather or stepchildren. I wonder how the Minister sees this. He writes in the bill that family members are the spouse, the person with whom the victim has a permanent intimate relationship, conducts a common household and lives together sustainably and continuously. The Minister continues with relatives and finally persons who depend on the victim. In this context, I would like to draw attention to two aspects. Firstly, those who depend on the victim. What does the Minister mean by that? Does he mean economic or social dependence or care? How am I supposed to interpret this? Secondly, the person with whom the victim has a permanent intimate relationship. The Minister translates this into the bill as the registered partner or other partner of the victim's life. Can the Minister explain whether all this also means the step family and then in the sense that this has been the case in the Chamber earlier when dealing with the legislative proposal on the right to speak for victims and relatives? The Chamber recently passed this bill. In it, however, the right to speak is granted to the step family. The key points are the close relationship between the step family and belonging to the same family. Although the proposal we are discussing today concerns rights other than the right to speak, these are still the same victims. It is therefore a question of whether the definition of family which the Minister gives in the explanatory statement can be taken as an assumption that these rights also apply to the step family. The directive provides scope for this. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The directive stipulates that if you are a victim of a criminal offence in another country, you must also be able to report it in the Netherlands. That seems clear to me, but the Minister is struggling with this. He writes that this is difficult, because the Netherlands would have no jurisdiction over the further progress of that declaration because the Dutch court would not have jurisdiction. It is precisely the intention of the directive to give everyone the opportunity to report it all over Europe. The Member States must therefore regulate it between themselves in such a way that it will be possible to do so in future. Will the Minister take the lead in this now that he also holds the Presidency of the EU? Will he ensure that any declaration can be recorded in the EU, regardless of the Member State in which the offence was committed? I'm getting to the point of the victim's privacy. The connection of D66 with privacy is well known. Many good things have already been done in this area in the Netherlands, but I have my doubts as to whether we are doing enough to include the victim's data in the criminal record. In the case of sexual offences, a victim can already prevent medical data from being involved, of course, in the investigation. As far as D66 is concerned, however, the victim is always in charge of his own data. I am thinking, for example, of acts of violence and the need to prevent secondary victimisation, once again becoming victims of the same perpetrator. I can therefore very well imagine that the victim does not want sensitive personal data of himself to be entered in the file and through the file with the suspect. A victim should therefore have the right of consent not only for personal data but also for medical or other sensitive data in order to determine which personal data does and which does not appear in a file. My question to the Minister is whether he shares D66's view that it is up to the victim to decide for himself on the use of his or her data in the criminal record. All this, of course, is always about keeping the balance, including between the victim and the suspect. Also, the suspect may sometimes need protection from the victim. This proposal does not allow the victim to refuse certain information about the criminal proceedings. The Public Prosecutor can postpone it, but in the end cannot prevent the victim from knowing, for example, who is targeting him in a criminal account or in liquidations, as we have seen recently. If the victim finds out, this can have very undesirable consequences, especially if no prosecution can take place or no conviction of the suspect follows. It is precisely in these cases that it may be necessary not to give the information to the victim in order to prevent any revenge or retaliation. I think the Minister will say that it cannot be done on the basis of the directive, because the directive does not provide for such a ground for refusal. However, I do not agree with him because the directive deals with minimum standards. So you can always do something more. In this case, it would be a tightening-up. My specific question to the Minister is whether he sees any possibility of allowing the prosecution to withhold certain information from the victim if it would endanger the security of the suspect. Is the Minister prepared to tighten up the rules in Dutch law? I'm rounding up. As far as D66 is concerned, the directive is being implemented quickly, but my assessment of the bill will depend on the Minister's response to the following points: 1. the individual assessment and workload of the police; 2. the rights of the step family; 3. the European declaration, which should therefore be possible in the Netherlands or in each Member State; 4. the victim's privacy protection; 5. the defendant's safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Recourt has an interruption to you; he has been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, I've had a question for a long time. It's about point four, the victim's privacy. We discussed this in greater detail in general terms two weeks ago. The maximum is being done, or at least something is being done about it. Now D66 introduces something new, namely consent from the victim himself to include data, such as medical data, in the file and thus to make it known to the suspect. I don't quite understand. It seems to me that you never include medical records in the criminal record at all if they are not relevant. Once they're relevant, it's hard to deny them to the defense again. Can D66 explain how this is seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	The confidential data, including medical data, will indeed be included in the file. You can take them one-on-one and then everything is in there, like the diagnosis and all the underlying pieces. The victim himself should be able to say what should and should not be included in the file. That is the grounds for refusal which I propose or, whatever you want to call it, the right of consent. It can easily be absorbed by a paraphrase, by not naming something specifically or by anonymizing some parts, all of this to do justice to the victim's privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yes, but I think that as a Chamber two weeks ago, when we talked about this, we pressed unanimously on this. So we all agree that you need to give as little privacy sensitive information as possible, but of course it's about those data that are needed for the defense. If you give the victim a jurisdiction of "not this," is there a procedure for the defendant or the defendant's attorney to indicate that he needs the data for the defense? Aren't you gonna start a huge procedure when you can handle this in a much more practical way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	It's up to the D.A. to settle this with the victim. You'll have to start by giving the victim the right to tell the D.A. that he doesn't want certain things in the file. If Mr Recourt says that this has been generally endorsed, then so be it. If then a problem arises, there is always a possibility of recourse to the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group can wholeheartedly support the bill. A further improvement in the position of victims, both in the Netherlands and abroad, is of great importance. Years ago, Ernst Hirsch Ballin started with the first steps to strengthen the position of victims, together with the Labour Secretary of State Albayrak Party. This is now further developed by the VVD. That's good. I think we are very much in agreement that you need to take steps to improve this every time. At the time, we said to each other that we should stay very close to it to see if we can go further into it. It is very good that the Minister has made this a mission. It is very important that we strengthen this position not only in the Netherlands, but certainly also in Europe. I still have some kind of heart cry about that. I remember that kind of thing you'll never forget that I've ever been a victim of a crime abroad. Then I joined the police and actually I got no further than the word "qué." That's when it was over. I couldn't get through. I couldn't talk about it. I thought, "That's my destiny, it's too bad, I've got damage and I'm gonna have to wear it." Will the Minister follow what happens when a Dutch resident becomes a victim abroad? Does he put this on the agenda with his foreign secretary so he can discuss this with the embassies? Are the embassies going to know what the intention is, what the European directives are and what the obligations of the different Member States are? If a victim comes forward and can only say the word "qué" when he has really fallen victim dramatically and not only with damage walked out of a police station, then we would like our embassies to stand next to our victims. Can the Minister undertake to do so? The most dramatic form is, of course, when a next of kin is the victim. Not in all countries is a next of kin similar to a victim. That is also a concern for the CDA Group. Does the Minister also take this up in the JHA Council? We want a next of kin to be considered a full victim everywhere. In the consultation round, Victim Aid Netherlands raised a number of important points. One basic point was the following. In a lot of places, the rights of victims are well laid down in legislation, directives or instructional standards for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but what if those rights are violated? In a lot of moments, the victim actually has nothing in his hands to enforce business. That remains a matter of concern. In fact, I do not think this is possible, because we in the Netherlands have a system in which, at a court hearing, the defendant is actually at the centre of his trial and there is a firm position for the victim. However, you can sometimes wish that victims' rights can be enforced. Can the Minister respond to that today? How does he see that? I do not want to make a concrete proposal to this effect, but this must be given an important place in the re-examination of the Code of Criminal Procedure. At what times do we believe that a victim has no right, has no right, and must have something in his hands to enforce it when he is disadvantaged? I told you, it's a good bill that takes important steps. So Europe is clearly doing things very well. The Netherlands can still be pushed a little further. Other countries really still have a firm foot to pull, and that's what this is all about. On a few points we would like to take it a step further, and that is why we have tabled amendments on this subject. The first is the situation that has been seized, that has been seized, that ultimately has a suspect, that has been caught and that the stuff has been found. Why shouldn't we just include in the law that that stuff should be returned to the victim without delay? It says that the equipment must be returned to the victim, but we are afraid that if you do not make it quite clear that it must be immediately, it will be a sort of point that must be ticked off at some point at the end of the session. I really believe that prosecutors understand the importance of it, but in the end it's an ordinary trial. I think that check mark is gonna be a step higher on the list that a D.A. has to finish if you put in it "without delay." That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject. I am very curious to hear the Minister's views on this. Another point is the cost of travel. It's actually a very small point, because we've already arranged a lot. What have we arranged? We have actually arranged for the costs of a victim who is required to pay to be reimbursed more quickly. If a victim wants to speak for himself, the right to speak is not quite clear. I regret that, because I think it is important that you simply try to accommodate a victim as much as possible and that includes travel expenses, however banal that may sound. That is what my second amendment is about. Just take care of it now. Victims make a lot of money, and why would you leave them at that cost? The third point is certainly interesting, because two amendments have been tabled. The point is that a victim must be informed about his trial. For the hearing at first instance and the appeal, we have now settled it: a victim is properly informed. However, there is still uncertainty about the Supreme Court. There are two amendments. If I sum it up quite simply, there is an amendment that regulates that victims are informed when a case goes to the Supreme Court and an amendment by the CDA that ensures that the victim is informed when the Supreme Court decides to refer a case to the Court of Justice, because the matter is then dealt with in substance. What does the Minister think is best? If we know that, the Chamber will have to find out what it wants. The CDA has not chosen, by definition, to arrange for every passage to the Supreme Court to be reported to the victim, because very often it is not about something that concerns the victim. If you have to do it at the time, then there's really nothing to worry about, and I don't know if we're gonna serve the victim with that. It is important, however, that the moment the Supreme Court decides that a case must be dealt with again by a court of law, the victim is immediately informed. I have heard that there is a small system at the Supreme Court and that it often happens, but if it does happen often and we have settled it well for the first instance and the appeal, then we must also regulate it in the law in case it concerns a ruling by the Supreme Court. Mr. Chairman. Those were the three amendments tabled by the CDA Group the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	The amendment in part No. 11 see travel expenses. Mrs Van Toorenburg has looked closely and critically at it and I also have sympathy for the underlying idea, but I do wonder whether it is necessary to regulate it by law. Or is it also possible for it to pass that question on to the Minister that what it is intended to do is organized by another means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is my preference to regulate it by law, because we have also arranged other costs by law. It is a bit crazy to arrange one and the other not so, because that may mean that the victim can come back empty-handed. If the Minister says he might as well take care of it another way, I'm fine with it. It does not need to be incorporated into the law with steam and boiling water as long as it is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	If you'll just put that question to the Minister, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	I lead it elegantly to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have a question about the amendment on notifying the victim of cassation appeals to the Supreme Court. There are two amendments and I agree with you that we should opt for the best amendment. Perhaps we should even put these amendments together if it turns out that they both make sense. You say about the amendment tabled by Mr Van Oosten and I that it is not really necessary, because very often it is not about matters that concern the victim. So why would you inform the victim? Isn't that a little patronizing? Wouldn't it be better for the victim to decide for himself? First of all, the case is not yet finalized by the imposition of a cassation. It seems relevant to me to give that to the victim. Secondly, with regard to the right to speak and a whole series of other issues, we have always said: as a government, we decide for the victim what is and what is not right. Shouldn't we just say: victim, this is what's going on, it's up to you whether you want to come or you don't want to come? Shouldn't that responsibility and decision just lie with the victim?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	That is indeed a dilemma. I fully agree with Mr Recourt that we should not patronize victims and that we should not keep things away from them, because otherwise it is not good for them. I also see, however, that there is something special going on in a cassation profession. It is not a matter of the actual case; it is merely a question of whether the judge has done his job. Mr Recourt knows this better than anyone else. There are many situations in which the judgment is expressed for very different reasons. Is it then necessary to say again to a victim who at that time has already had the entire preliminary stage, the first instance, the appeal, mind you, there is another ruling coming from the Supreme Court? We know that this can take up to two or three years. If it takes two or three years for a case to be dealt with on a part that has nothing to do with the actual handling of the case, should we want to? That's kind of my dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I agree with you that it is often not a matter of concern to the victim, but it may end up there, and then we come to your amendment that the matter goes back to court and is considered in substance. Maybe it'll be an acquittal. In short, it is relevant to the victim, even if he or she does not have a direct role, to know that the matter is going to the Supreme Court, so it is not yet irrevocable and can in theory still go in all directions. If you just report that the case is going back to court, you're gonna skip that group. He then thinks "the case is ready," but that case is not at all ready; it is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Perhaps Mr Recourt is right. I'd like to hear that from the Minister. What is very much in favour of the Minister's view is that we used to have the situation that, because a case was not irrevocable, a prisoner was not yet transferred to prison. That's totally out of the question. I also hear that there are far fewer cassation professions and that they no longer serve such a purpose. Perhaps Mr Recourt is right. Then I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Then we go for your amendment, I say to Mr Recourt. If that is not the case, however, I would like to keep an amendment in hand. Perhaps we should then look at how we can make that a good thing with the always brilliant support of the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	Very briefly. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that we should take the victim seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think it's kind of a silly question, because of course it is. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	I've always learned that stupid questions can be asked, especially when they lead to something. That's what I'm gonna do. Mrs Van Toorenburg said yes to my rhetorical question as to whether we should take the victim seriously. Does she agree that we should let the victims themselves think about what they do with information? I would like to ask this in conjunction with what has just been said here about cassation. Then you can just explain briefly to the victim, written or oral, how things are going, even in cassation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	The groups of the CDA, the PvdA and the VVD have just shown that they take the victims seriously, namely by tabling an amendment to ensure that the victims receive that information. If D66 had done the same, we would now have three amendments here, but there are only two. So on the question of whether we take it seriously, I say yes, but we do want to do it the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	Those were the three amendments we tabled. There are still a few points on which we feel a little unclear. A crime has been committed in a Member State and we have agreed that it could be reported in the Netherlands. At the moment, it is so arranged that this can only be done if the Netherlands also has jurisdiction in some way. The Minister has undertaken to ask the Public Prosecutor to consider whether this designation is still in line with the new Article 17 of the Directive. We would like to know what the state of the day is. We would also like to know what is going on with the declaration follow-up service. This will enable people on the Internet to see how far the case in which they are victims has progressed at that time. How's that going? Has that been put down enough already? That service should be in place by now, at least in 2016. Where are we with that? A few things we don't understand very well. These relate mainly to finance. Other speakers before us have said a lot about this, so I can be relatively brief about it. It's unclear what the impact is. In fact, we have gradually discovered that the Ministry has done its best to make an impact analysis. The CDA Group has asked for this, and to our surprise we found out that it was made. The worst thing is that this impact analysis ultimately has quite shocking results. We would like to know today from the Minister what this means. Does this mean that the huge deficits in the police may still be incurred because all this also costs money? We would like to spend it, but how are we going to deal with it in the end? For example, look at interrogation rooms, look at consulting rooms. We spoke this morning about the waiting rooms that have not yet been arranged. It can't be true that we're going to talk about this again for seven years. In the other debate, Mr Van Oosten asked whether it took so long. I think Mrs. Kooiman already nodded. That is how long it actually took, said Mrs Helder. It is a bit sad if we have to go back on a dead horse with the argument that there is no money for it. So we really want to know: is there money for this? When will that be enough? No one can have the loss of operational capacity with the police either. There are many people sick at home, there is a major refugee crisis and ultimately the regular police work and the search work suffer. We have read that a multiannual subsidy is being made available by the European Union. Maybe that's a bright spot. Does this also mean that this subsidy may be available to the national police in the task of strengthening the victim's position? We also like to hear that. I think that's very important. I come to a conclusion, well within the time. It is good that we have been able to take another step in strengthening the position of victims. If we are to continue the whole process of strengthening the Code of Criminal Procedure, we may need to consider whether there are still a number of issues to be strengthened. It's a continuous process. It always turns out there's a tension. Dutch suspects are all about that person, while the victim is the one who is very unwittingly involved. It's all of us to strengthen and improve that position, because it's the only way to soften something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. In this Parliament we have been talking for several decades about the position of the victim. I can remember when I was not a Member of Parliament myself that Boris Dittrich once started with what if we look back now is a very small right of speech. That was really seen as revolutionary: boys, boys, giving the victim a position, that was something! We think that is quite normal now, but we are still seeing developments. A little less long ago, this Minister, as a Member of Parliament, tabled an amendment with me to extend that right of speech further. That was rejected at the time. In the meantime, the Chamber has adopted it and it is in the Upper Chamber. I hope that the First Chamber will also take those slow steps, so that this will be adopted there too. Such a development is seen in Europe. The Netherlands is a precursor to thinking about the position of victims; I am actually proud of that. But Europe is making progress with this directive. For those who do not like Europe: this seems to me to be a good example that Europe is simply doing good work. If you look at it nationalistically: most Dutch people come regularly in other countries within the EU, and if you are robbed in Spain Mrs Van Toorenburg already gave the example, you really benefit from being treated properly. The directive may have a greater impact on the rest of Europe than on us, but it also affects us. I am not going to list them all, because that has been done neatly in the explanatory statement, and so will the Minister. I'm gonna take a few little dots out of it. Maybe they're bigger dots. The directive is not discriminatory. That seems to be a truth like a cow, but when you think through the consequences, you naturally get to people without status in the Netherlands: foreigners, refugees and others without status. Thus, the Directive explicitly does not distinguish between victims with and without residence status. This means that all victims can derive rights from this directive. Victims and criminal proceedings shall not have suspensive effect. If a decision is taken on the right of residence of a victim, the illegal alien can be expelled without being able to attend the criminal proceedings. During the written procedure, we asked for an extension of the B8 regime. This regulation already applies to victims of trafficking in human beings. They have the right to remain in the Netherlands during the criminal proceedings to possibly act as a witness. The Minister does not intend to extend this regime to victims of sexual crimes or serious acts of violence, because the government considers that the criterion of exploitation is lacking in these cases. It seems to me that the seriousness of a crime must be leading. I do not want a law of Meden and Persians that states that in the event of a very serious crime, the person without residence status must always stay in the Netherlands until the trial is over. That could take years, and it doesn't have to be in the best interest of that stranger. But I do want customization to be possible. I imagine the district attorney can play an important role in this. At the moment when you just need the victim as a witness to bring that case to a successful conclusion, it should be possible to suspend the removal from the Netherlands for a while until the hearing has been held or the process has been carried out. I'd like more room for that arrangement. I don't want the law of Medes and Persians. The B8 regime does not need to apply to everyone now, but I do want the public prosecutor's room to apply the non-discrimination clause that the directive provides in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we read that the safe declaration scheme undocumented foreigners will be introduced in 2016 in stages. Can the Minister explain this? Can the Minister indicate how the police will approach the target group of illegal aliens and how it will deal with this in the context of this directive on victimisation? I have a very long piece on minor and vulnerable victims in interrogation. Mr Kooiman has also said something about this. The Labour Party strongly agrees with the SP. It must be properly arranged, with specialised police personnel in areas suitable for this purpose, especially for children under 12 years of age, but it seems to me that attention should also be paid to victims over 12 years of age. I therefore agree with the questions raised by Mrs Kooiman and await the answer with interest. I have asked my questions about amendments in interruptions. So I'm gonna skip that point. I also agree with the questions that others have asked about the impact. What does this do financially and with the capacity of police and other parties such as the Public Prosecutor's Office and courts? They are good plans, but also good plans cost money and time. This brings me to the end of this very good directive and the good implementation in Dutch legislation. You can do even better on a few points. We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	I see that Mrs Helder does not need to speak. Mr Van Oosten will then be given the floor by the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. I too have asked for relatively little speaking time, because I do not have much to add to this proposal, nor do I have any questions to put to the cabinet, in particular to the Minister for Security and Justice. In essence, they are fine proposals. They strengthen the position of the victim, which we have actually been discussing all morning in various debates. I am always happy with the fact that I have tried in the cabinet and colleagues that everyone wants to work in the best way in their own way. Mrs. Swinkels already raised the issue of family members. Family members can also be suspects. There is already some talk in the documents that preceded this, but can the Minister explain how the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office should deal with family members who are also suspects, given that family members are also considered victims under this bill? In particular, I am also interested in the question put by Mrs Swinkels. The world has changed a bit. Today we also know families that are composed differently from the traditional family. We have stepfamilies. We have people who may not be married and so on. But they do have a family relationship with each other. How should I interpret that in the light of this proposal? I would like to receive a further response from the Minister so that there are no misunderstandings. The individual assessment of the police is a major point, which is brought in. The Minister stated in the explanatory statement that the effects would be delayed for a number of years. At least that will require the necessary attention in the coming years. This means that there may not be much to say about this in a very precise sense, but what can I expect? Is there any consideration of protection measures other than those which are now known and which are also mentioned, such as the location ban, the house ban, etc.? Linked to this: when will the announced evaluation take place? I'm gonna go to the finance department. A grant has been awarded from Europe. What exactly are we talking about? So what is financed from it? As I did just now with the VAO which preceded this on the Code of Criminal Procedure contour note, I ask once again to keep an eye on the implications that this will have for executive organisations, especially for police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. How do we prevent the operational strength from falling? Finally, Mr Recourt and I have tabled an amendment. Let us wait and see the Minister's opinion on this. I have also seen Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. Maybe we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the various political groups for their initial contribution to this important legislative proposal. As Mrs Kooiman said, the proposal concerns the implementation of a European directive setting minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. This is a starting point which the Dutch Government warmly welcomes. I am glad that I actually have broad support for the legislative proposal among all the groups, except in some sense for those of D66. We can therefore assume that this legislative proposal will receive a great deal of support from this Chamber. I am looking forward to that, because in the process of coming to this legislative proposal, we have had an extensive exchange of views on the directive itself, which obliges us to introduce it into the Netherlands. As is well known, the 2011 European Framework Decision was repealed by the entry into force of the Directive. The good news is that the position of victims of criminal offences in the Netherlands has been greatly strengthened since 2001. Important milestone was the entry into force on 1 January 2011 of the Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to strengthen the victim's position in criminal proceedings. This was the first time that victims' rights were enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Victims' rights have also been further strengthened. Several Members have pointed this out. Since 2014, it is possible to seize the property of suspects to ensure that there will be money to pay compensation to the victim. Currently, a bill extending the right to speak is pending in the Upper House. It provides for an extension of the operation of the Damage Fund Violent Crimes to survivors in the event of death by fault in road traffic offences. That important point has been raised by this Chamber; it is enshrined in the law. In the summer of 2015, a bill on the compensation of affection damage was presented to this Chamber. In the process of modernising criminal proceedings, the position of the injured party is improved on a number of points. The Court was already informed of this in the contour note. Earlier today, during a VAO, there was a motion calling on the government to further strengthen the position of victims in the modernisation process. This means that not only in legislation, but certainly in practice, the situation of victims has improved considerably in recent years. Victim offices have been created where police, OM and Victim Support Netherlands work together and victims can get information and advice. Survivors and victims of serious violence and sexual crimes can receive support from a professional case manager of Victim Support Netherlands. Special training has also been provided for victims' lawyers. Victims are better informed in practice and their interests are more often taken into account, for example when deciding on detention leave. In the Netherlands, therefore, we meet many of the minimum standards set by the European directive. Mrs Kooiman opened the debate with that observation. But there are also new obligations arising from the directive which must be incorporated into Dutch legislation and which will have to be secured in practice. New is, for example, that the definition of victims is extended. This means that more people are given rights as victims and that provision must therefore be made for them as well. Victims will also be informed about their rights and available assistance at first contact with the police and will be entitled to more information on the progress of the case than has been the case up to now. Furthermore, this bill regulates that victims who do not understand the Dutch language or do not understand it sufficiently may request a written translation of relevant documents. That also means, I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, that in the Netherlands the word 'qué' can never be the end of the treatment of a victim that the Dutch language is not powerful. Victims may also be assisted by a person of their choice, in addition to a lawyer, and a legal representative. Another important new element is the individual assessment of victims. With these tools, the police will be able to better assess whether a victim is vulnerable and what measures can then be used to protect the victim. I shall come back to that, because it is also a very important element in the questioning methods. I therefore expect that the individual assessment will enable us to provide better protection for victims. The standards directly related to criminal procedure law are set out in the proposal for the Implementing Act. A number of instructional standards, aimed at police, OM and victim support organisations, will be included in a General Management Measure. As soon as the examination of the bill in this Chamber is completed, the draft General Measure of Management will be submitted to the Council of State for advice. I am prepared, as Mrs Swinkels requested, to forward the concept of the concept of this General Administrative Measure to the Chamber in due course, so that she can take note of it. In any case, it is planned that this bill and the General Measure of Management will enter into force simultaneously, preferably this spring. In practice, the new standards are implemented by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the case law, Victim's Aid The Netherlands, the Judicial Institutions Service and the probation. The chain partners are supported in the implementation by the "Right to Victims" programme of my ministry, with which I consider the Chamber known. Understandably, several questions have been asked about the impact of the new regime on the police. I will say something about it in general; then I will come back to individual questions on that point. The concerns expressed by the various groups about the possible impact of this bill on the police, of course, I take very seriously. An initial impact analysis was carried out in 2014 with a preliminary assessment of the possible implementation costs for the police. I sent it to the Chamber in the autumn of 2015. As can be seen from the letter I received from the corps leadership on 2 December 2015, the national, structural impact of the introduction of this bill on the police is not yet well established. It is clear, however, that the implementation of the directive will require the necessary attention from the police. The police are, of course, the first party to have contact with victims. The police therefore play a very important role in providing information to victims and in protecting vulnerable victims. In particular, the introduction of the tools for individual assessment of vulnerable victims will have an impact on the workload of the police. A large number of the members of the Chamber pointed that out. I therefore think it is important that these consequences are mapped out gradually and in close consultation with the police. I do this by means of a pilot with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Victim Help Netherlands. That pilot runs in the first half of 2016. It shall be assessed how the individual assessment can be applied as effectively and efficiently as possible. The pilot project will also provide a more precise analysis of the expected impact of the introduction of the tools for the work of the chain partners. I think it is important that the individual assessment complies with the standards laid down in the directive and that it really contributes to the protection of victims. At the same time, I am aiming for a toolbox that can be used in practice and that fits within the resources available. On the basis of the results of the pilot, I will decide, in consultation with the chain partners, on the national introduction of these instruments. If the financial issue is to be dealt with, it will be a subject for my Ministry's 2017 budget. I will come back to the questions about the European subsidy in a moment. Mrs. Swinkels has asked about the financial coverage. No additional financial resources were made available for the introduction of the directive at the time. However, I am aware that the introduction of the directive will lead to structural costs for the partners in the criminal justice chain. The 2014 impact analysis provided an initial assessment, showing that the introduction would have an impact mainly on the police. A more in-depth analysis of the police has not produced a clear picture. The fact that the precise impact on the police is not yet to be determined is mainly due to the fact that the tools needed for individual assessment of the vulnerability of victims have not yet been developed. Because the instruments are not yet complete, it is very difficult to determine the consequences of their application. That is why the pilot was launched in two police regions, where this individual assessment is being carried out. In the summer of 2016, that pilot will be completed. In the summer of this year, therefore, I expect to have a more realistic picture of the costs involved, both in terms of the costs of capacity and in terms of the costs incurred in other areas of the police. Then I will decide how we will find cover for that. I'm taking that into account in the budget. In this respect, I would point out that the Netherlands is already doing relatively much about the protection of victims. In practice, special measures are already being taken to protect vulnerable victims. At the same time, further improvements are needed in the alerting and protection of vulnerable victims in the criminal justice chain. In addition to the introduction of the directive, there are, of course, other challenges in victim policy that require structural resources. That means that I have to set priorities within the total. I have also announced in general consultation on victim policy that I will send a multi-annual programme for victim policy to the Chamber after the summer. This programming will provide clarity on what targets will be achieved when, which organisation will implement the targets and by what means. The individual assessment, which we are talking about now, is part of that. I will continue to inform the Chamber for the Budgetary Treatment of V and J for 2017. In doing so, I also implement the Van der Staaij motion, which asks to inform the House of Representatives about how victim-oriented works are secured in structural and financial terms. The European subsidy was requested. The good news is that it has indeed been provided. If it's okay, the grant comes in two instalments. All in all, the amount is expected to be EUR 8 million. This amount is available for incidental costs incurred for the implementation of the Directive. The Court must bear in mind the costs involved in educating people in order to be able to make the individual assessment and that sort of thing. Europe will not provide a subsidy for structural costs. So I will have to cover it in my own budget. Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Swinkels have asked about the state of play of the pilot. I have to be careful not to repeat myself, but I think it is important to say what this pilot delivers: an inventory of the existing tools within the police for risk assessment of victims, an impact analysis of the ICT impact on the police, a calculation model for the capacity attachment and the necessary finances and a privacy impact analysis, which is, of course, necessary. The pilot is completed in the summer and now runs in the police units Arnhem and Maastricht. The starting point is that this must at least be pragmatic and realistic and that it can be carried out properly with the right capacity, preferably as small as possible. For this reason, I have decided that the implementation by the police will run until at least 1 January 2019, because the changes in this area are such that you have to fill them in carefully and with the correct phasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	The Minister is talking about a long term and a kind of multiannual plan for the concrete implementation of the obligations of the Directive. Then how does the Minister look at the fact that the deadline for implementation expired in November last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	As Mrs Swinkels knows without a doubt, there are two forms of implementation. There is the legal implementation and it is right that the deadline has expired. In addition, there is the actual implementation. Once the law's in place, you're gonna have to put it in. In this respect, the European Commission will ultimately monitor. We will have to meet the requirements of the European Commission, but it is of course up to the Member States themselves to decide at what rate the directive can be introduced. At the same time, I would point out that, of course, it is in our interest to implement the directive as soon as possible in other Member States, including in order to protect Dutch victims who are faced with the situation described by Mrs Van Toorenburg abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	It is precisely because of that point that I said that it is so annoying that we do not know what will be in the AMvB, because that is the lower regulation. That then withdraws from the view of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	No, because if Mrs Swinkels has listened carefully, she has just heard me say that I am prepared to send the AMvB to the Chamber for information at the right time. So if Mrs Swinkels does not miss that message, she will be fully informed, as I have just said. I come to Mrs Kooiman's question about the interrogation rooms. Let us say first of all that I fully agree with Mrs Kooiman that underage victims are standard vulnerable victims. Of course, you have to take this into account when you question such victims. Fortunately, the good news is that this is happening; so does Mrs Kooiman. The police are already looking at the age of development in the case of underage victims instead of the actual age. If the age of development gives rise to the eligibility of the minor victim for a special manner of interrogation, so will it. So there's room to interrogate such a victim in a child-friendly studio. It is very important that we continue to deliver that customization. The main rule is that all underage victims under 12 are entitled to use the hearing studio anyway. I think Mrs Kooiman and I are in complete agreement. This will also happen to those in the group from 12 to 18 of whom the police say on the basis of the instruments that they need the special hearing studio. Why don't you just say that all the underage victims in the interview studio are being interrogated? Mrs Kooiman has visited a hearing studio; I have done so myself a few times. The studios are generally really focused on children under 12. There's a lot of toys out there and there's all kinds of ways to calm children down. When you get in there as a 16- or 17-year-old, you wonder at some point whether you're being taken seriously. That is the great importance of the customisation that we must apply. The minors who need that studio should therefore be eligible for it. Those who do not need it at all because their development is such that it is really inappropriate, we should not bother with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	As Mr Van der Steur himself knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	The Minister has indeed been on a job visit. So he knows that the interview rooms have been adapted and that the toys are not in sight. This is actually only used when a child is younger than 12, because adults are interrogated in it who are intellectually limited. It is rare for interrogation rooms to be used for minors over 12 years of age. Is the Minister prepared to have the interview rooms used more often than they are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	The goal should not be to use the studios more often, but to apply them at the right time. I am certainly prepared to inform the Court of Justice of this in the context of the progress report on victim policy. I think I'll send it to the Chamber after the summer. In it, I will outline the practical experience with the application of this rule. Mrs Kooiman and I agree that such a special hearing studio should simply be used for a vulnerable victim who is over 12 but under 18 and needs it and that the special hearing studio should not be used in other cases. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Mrs Kooiman also asked about the work process of ZSM. Victim support Netherlands is available seven days a week as of 1 January 2015. This means that there are no more casualties between the shore and the ship, but the work processes still need to be put in place. There is also a continuous monitoring with the chain partners to see whether everything is going as we would like in ZSM with regard to victims. Mrs Kooiman also asked about the results of the pilot Safe declaration in Amsterdam and its extension to Utrecht and Eindhoven. She also asked: when will we hear more about the results? The aim of the pilot in Amsterdam was to increase the willingness to report with a view to combating crime. In addition, the scheme aimed at providing illegal victims with access to the right and the desired support. During the pilot, little use has been made of the opportunity to report, which means that both targets were not met. The pilot showed that the establishment of a declaration of willingness among illegal foreigners requires a considerable effort on the part of the police. Only investing in clear communication about the scheme and building trust among the target group leads to actual reports and opportunities to fight crime. At the end of the pilot, the police in Amsterdam invested extra in these elements. This resulted in an increase in the number of declarations. On the monitoring of the results, both in Amsterdam and in Utrecht and Eindhoven, I will return to the Chamber during the general consultation Police on 13 April next. Mr Recourt asked about the issue of residence status in relation to the European directive and the foreign legal status of a person who filed a complaint. The question that Mr Recourt actually asked was: can such a person not stay in the Netherlands until the criminal proceedings have been completed? I must point out to Mr Recourt that, if that were the standard rule, I would no longer have to worry about the willingness to report in the Netherlands. The result would be that this would be one of the ways to prevent expulsion. We have to face that. I think Mr Recourt will accept that as well. One thing is certain: it is guaranteed that there will be no foreign law measures if an illegal report is made. That's the work instruction for all units. If you are staying illegally in the Netherlands, you must, as the law and the Constitution dictate, have access to the police and be able to report it. The declaration must be taken seriously if there are serious indications that the declaration is actually serious. In case of suspected illegal residence, the person concerned shall be informed of the possibilities offered by the International Organization for Migration (IOM) or other aid organisations to support a voluntary return. As a result of this scheme, the illegal alien does not have any advantage or disadvantage as regards his residence. It does not benefit him, because the expulsion cannot be postponed. In fact, delay would lead to inequality with respect to other undocumented persons who have not filed a report. He will not suffer any disadvantage from it, because there will not be any expulsion before. The next question is: what is the issue if a stranger is needed for the purpose of criminal proceedings? You also don't want to create the situation where someone is pressing charges, which turns out it's a very serious matter, that the prosecution and the police are handling them very seriously, and that then the people involved are gone because they've been deported, so the criminal proceedings can't be successful anymore. In practice, tailor-made work is then provided. There is contact between the Public Prosecutor and the Return and Departure Service of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The expulsion procedure will not be formally terminated, but the foreigner will be given the opportunity to testify if necessary. The criminal proceedings are therefore guaranteed. I think this is also the starting point that Mr Recourt is looking for. Another thought you might have is that you're looking at the B8 scheme. It is specifically aimed at victims of trafficking in human beings. It has been created to help a victim from an exploitation or trafficking situation and to ensure that the victim remains available for the criminal trial. Since this scheme is mainly concerned with removing the victim from an exploitation situation, a different arrangement has been introduced for that particular group. That is the so-called B8 scheme, formerly the B9 scheme. It's an arrangement with a lot of facilities. As is well known, there has been a regular discussion in the past on the possible trigger effect of this scheme. This has also been investigated by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children, but on the basis of the available information he has not been able to draw any conclusions, not to the positive but not to the negative. With regard to the illegal alien, I would like to confirm to Mr Recourt that the police have prepared the safe declaration procedure for undocumented aliens. There's a work instruction for that, too. The corresponding means of communication have recently been sent to all units in the Netherlands. We've had the pilots ahead of this rural rollout. Experience has already been gained in this scheme. I'll inform the Chamber about that during the AO Police Department. Mrs Swinkels and later Mr Van Oosten asked questions about the family-law issue surrounding stepfamilies. What about step family rights in the directive? Mrs Swinkels has already asked questions about this. I answered that, but I understand from Mrs Swinkels that that answer was not clear enough, because she is asking the question again. I will try to formulate the answer even better. The judge may, if he considers it appropriate, allow those persons to speak at the hearing. That space is also under the current regime. I have promised that I will review any legal amendment as soon as the review of the 2014 law is available. In general discussions on victim policy, I have already had an exchange of views with Mrs Kooiman. The government is prepared to amend the law if necessary, but that is not the point of this directive at the moment. Strictly speaking, it would also create a national headline on the directive. The spokesmen know how the Upper House feels about this. So the problem can be solved by the individual judge. Mrs. Swinkels has been a judge herself for a long time, so she probably knows that even better than I do. However, I am always prepared to look at the situation as a result of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	When judges have to explain the law, they look at the explanatory statement and the law itself. In this respect, however, this bill is inadequate. It should be made much clearer that step family members can also be considered victims. I will table an amendment to that effect, unless the Minister says that he himself is going to fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mrs Swinkels rightly points out that judges look at the explanatory statement, but they also look at the Acts of handling the bill in the Lower House. At the moment, there is an exchange between a Member of Parliament and the Minister. The Minister states that the current legislation already allows judges to allow step family to attend the hearing where necessary and also give them the right to speak. I propose that Mrs Swinkels and I should look at each other and see that this fulfils the condition that judges need to say that it is necessary; I do not think that in the Acts there is such a possibility under the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	I look back at the minister very strangely. Judges are now in a huge time clamp. Do they have to go after the Acts as well? I think we should enable judges to clarify this quickly. What is the Minister's concern to include this in the law, so that time is saved and judges can reach a good judgment more quickly, and victims get their rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	The first question is: is it necessary? I think we just switched that we don't need to. The current legislation already offers this possibility. I also exchanged this with the Chamber in the legislative proposal on the right to speak and the AO on victim policy. If you then put it into law when implementing the directive, it is strictly a national head on top of the directive, while we have just established that judges already have that competence. So I see no reason to do it differently. I am convinced that judges already know this, because it is existing law. They don't need that extra boost anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Van Oosten has a complete report at the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	Yeah, I brought a whole package of paper. It seems quite impressive, but it's not that bad. I would like to comment on just one sentence on which I based my question. It is not so much about the individual balance of the judge when it comes to others than the traditional family members, so to speak. The explanatory statement states that the police are asking for clarity in this area for implementation practice. If the Minister is going to look at this issue in the near future, if there is reason to do so on the basis of the evaluation, will he then look specifically at whether it is necessary for the police? The police need to know who has rights. There should be no confusion about that. It cannot be the case that, in one case, a stepchild is entitled to it and not, in the other case, to it. That leads to a lot of frustration and ambiguity, and I would like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	I would like to take Mr Van Oosten's suggestion with me for the evaluation. I note that, of course, I also informed the Chamber about a personal experience I had during my visit to one of the parquets in the Netherlands, i.e. to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There it was said that it is strange enough for some people to come forward because they want to be heard by the officer as a victim in court, but that the other victims of that crime think that the person should not speak at all. We must therefore realise that it is not just from the one side. If Mrs Swinkels were indeed to make an amendment to give the step family the right to speak, then it is very much a question of whether all this is desirable in the family-law relationship between the victim and the step family. That's why you need that evaluation. You can't just bite through an amendment, because you really have to look at what we're doing with each other, what its effects are and whether what happens in the courtroom is also the goal that we're aiming for with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	If the Minister talks about cycling, I'm gonna go straight to that, because I do that every Sunday morning. The directive deals ultimately with the definition of victims in the explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal in relation to the step family. When I read pages 9, 10 and 11, I see that the Minister needs at least three pages to explain that there are different concepts, such as victim and next of kin, and that in any case the circle of right holders should be aligned with the circle of right holders to the rights we are discussing today in this law, i.e. the right to information and knowledge of the criminal record and that sort of thing. I do not think it is so clear from the explanatory statement. On the contrary, I've worked a lot with explanatory pleadings and laws, but I couldn't make chocolate out of this. That is why I will table an amendment. I will not ride that in it, but I will submit it to make it clear that it must be about persons with a close personal relationship with the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	Let me make a suggestion. For example, a different wording for what Mrs Swinkels proposes could be: the person living with the victim in a permanent intimate relationship in a joint household or living together permanently and continuously or dependent persons. If you look at the definitions in this bill, I think they already meet this. In addition, we note that what Mrs Swinkels wants to achieve is just standing up. There is no need for an amendment to that effect. But, of course, I am happy to look at the amendments that Mrs Swinkels will be tabling, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'm gonna race through it, Mr. Chairman, with your approval, of course, and that of your Chamber. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked, in response to the remarks made by Victim Aid Netherlands, whether there would be a need for enforceable remedies for victims. That is not the intention of the government. The victim now has a number of remedies in criminal proceedings, for example Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The victim may also apply for compensation from the Public Prosecutor if the prosecution has failed to allow the victim to join the criminal proceedings. I think we should be very careful in creating a separate trial position for victims. We have already discussed this with the Chamber. In my opinion, there is no structural problem here. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked a good question: how do we ensure that embassies know what the rights of Dutch victims are abroad when we implement this directive? I would like to discuss this with my foreign minister in order to ensure that the embassies within the Member States are aware of the arrangements and can work with them. Mrs Van Toorenburg then asked how we are ensuring that the directive is complied with in all Member States. That's actually a prerequisite for that. As I said to Mrs Swinkels, the European Commission is primarily committed to this. However, it is appropriate for the Council of Ministers, the JHA Council and the European Commission to ask the Commission, over time, that will no longer happen during our Presidency, I believe, because of course the implementation has not yet been completed in all the Member States to take a look at it and report on it. I think it's good that I keep this in mind. Then I come to Mrs Swinkels' question about the privacy and consent of the victim to the data provision. Due to the report, a victim reports to the police. This means that his data should not be available everywhere. I have sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber on this subject, which we have discussed in general on victim policy. I have already indicated that my starting point is that in a number of areas I want to look much more carefully at what data are really needed and that I want to ensure that this data does not end up with third parties without reason. Mrs. Swinkels then asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office should be given the power to withhold information about the suspect from the victim. Mr Recourt asked her a question about this. The Public Prosecutor can do this already on the basis of Article 51b of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which regulates access to procedural documents. If the victim asks, the district attorney still has to give his consent. He may refuse that consent if it would harm the major investigative interest. After all, not in all cases the victim is a savage victim. There may also be a victim in the criminal environment and that consideration should be made by the Public Prosecutor. The Public Prosecutor's Office therefore weighs on a case-by-case basis what information can be given to the victim and vice versa to the defendant. Article 51b is leading the way. I propose that Mrs Swinkels ensure that this principle does not disappear in the new Code of Criminal Procedure. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked whether the designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office on crimes committed abroad has already been amended. The D.A. will withdraw this designation. The requirement for the Netherlands to have jurisdiction lapses, because the designation is no longer in line with the law once it is adopted. The Public Prosecutor's Office is still examining the need for a new designation on the basis of this bill. If this is the case, I will inform the Chamber in due course. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked for the declaration follow-up service. This is a great improvement in the reporting process. In doing so, the police fulfil the legal obligation to inform victims and proposers about the follow-up to their case. The avs will also be realised for a limited group of declarations via the Internet. This will be further developed in 2017. One thing is certain: the original date of delivery was not reached. The forecast is that a new version will be possible in 2016 and the development will continue in 2017. Mrs Kooiman spoke about the impact of this directive on the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a result of this Directive, the Public Prosecutor will provide victims who so wish with information on the criminal decision issued against the defendant, the nature of the charge to the accused and the lodging or absence of an appeal. They shall also be given a comprehensive justification for the investigation if it is terminated or if a criminal offence is not prosecuted. The Public Prosecutor has indicated that he can do so within the available resources. I would add to the amendments that we must ensure that we say goodbye to the principle that we inform victims especially if they so wish. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is my belief that this should always be done. But when you talk to victims, you often hear that they absolutely don't want to hear about that case anymore and they don't want to have anything to do with it anymore. We must be careful not to bother people if they do not want to. I have recently spoken to a number of victims' relatives in very serious cases. They have told me time and time again how awfully heavy reports about appeal and cassation fall to them in certain cases. They added that they had chosen to do so because they wanted to know how it ended, but they pointed out that it would throw you back every time. We also have to consider this in the amendments. I've already talked about the AMvB. Mrs Kooiman asked another question about the extension of the TBs and the state of play. The investigation is in the final phase. The last period has been discussed with experts and experience experts in the field of TBs extension sessions. Because the victim or the next of kin does not exist, it is necessary to understand the various needs of victims and survivors. To complete the study, two additional meetings with victims and relatives were therefore organised in February. In this way, the interests of victims and survivors are involved in the investigation. In the spring of 2016 the Court will be informed of the results of this investigation. There is, of course, a dilemma which I would like to discuss with the Chamber in due course. This concerns the role of a possible right of speech. Now we strive for the Public Prosecutor's Office to speak to victims or relatives and take the wishes into the process. If you make a right to speak, which is one of the issues before you, the question is what you do with the fact that there is no influence on the ruling. We need to look at that very carefully. The Chamber will be informed of this. I come now to the amendments tabled by the Members of the Chamber. The first is Mr van Oosten's amendment calling for a legal obligation to inform victims of the progress of the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	Item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	No. 13. I don't have the number here, but I'll take your word for it, Mr. Chairman. Mr van Oosten's amendment actually extends the European directive. In a way, one could say that this is a very small Dutch headline on the European directive. I'm just calling it in because it's used to point that out. The amendment is based on the idea that the victim should be informed about the session of the Supreme Court. If victims want it, there's a lot to say. If victims do not want it, I find the amendment with a problem. This is also a debate between Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten, which a victim wants to know. Does a victim want to know that there is a session and, as the amendment now seems to indicate, does it want to know all the technical meetings and directing sessions that may be held at the Supreme Court? Or do you only want to be informed as a victim about the referral, as Mrs Van Toorenburg says? However, the Van Toorenburg amendment does not provide for the situation in which the Supreme Court itself decides. If the Supreme Court itself closes a case, this is not covered by Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment. However, it falls within the scope of what the Supreme Court is actually doing in practice, namely informing victims who have indicated it, about the progress of the case in the areas relevant to them. I propose that I discuss this with Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg in the next week, but that means that we have to postpone the vote on the legislative proposal for a week. We can then see how we can reconcile the interests of the victims and the wishes of the Chamber, or in the form of a motion or in the form of an amendment. But let's just get together and see how we can do that. That is my suggestion, and I am referring to the Van Oosten amendment to item No. 13 and the Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 13 and the Van Toorenburg amendment to item No. 13 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	Before proceeding, I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	It is right that the Minister should take a equally close look at these differences. We are happy to go to the table with the Minister to see how we can do justice to everyone. Too often we see that the matter is referred back to committee. Then his victims are surprised and we want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm gonna pick up that glove, too, of course. We will talk about this next week or next week. However, I would like to take this opportunity to make a brief comment, perhaps in order to avoid the second term, on the national headline. I really don't see it that way. I read and also describe in the amendment how the directive was formulated. I also see the opinion of the Council of State on this. I do not think it is different from the fact that the victim has the right to be informed about the progress of sessions. This is seen in the courts and in the courts, and I believe that this should also apply, if you wish, to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr Van Oosten probably agrees with me that a single directing session, the simple fact that a case is declared somewhere, is something that the victim does not need. That is covered by the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	That's what we're gonna talk about. I can imagine that very well. I can imagine that the mere fact that there is a cassation on a matter that immediately concerns the victim, because he is the victim of the crime, meets exactly what is contained in the directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendment to item No. 11 of the member Van Toorenburg to make an amendment to the Law on Tariffs in Criminal Matters. I fully understand the purpose of the amendment. I also welcome the fact that we can compensate victims when they attend sessions and so on. However, the amendment does not cover all the times when victims should be able to move. I therefore make two suggestions to Mrs Van Toorenburg. The first suggestion is to sit down with me on this amendment, so that the amendment includes all the elements that could be of interest to victims. The second suggestion is that Mrs Van Toorenburg converts the amendment into a motion. I just need to think if I can do that. Maybe that'll get a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	Let the unsavory employee of the ministry just make it according to the Minister's suggestion, namely: take everything with you and make it wide. I would like it to take the form of an amendment. They can prepare for that. Then we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	Of course, I'd like to provide that support. I have to look at the financial consequences of this, but I will inform Mrs Van Toorenburg. I would like to accept Mrs Van Toorenburg's offer to do it with her. I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment, which seeks to change one word in Article 116 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely that goods seized without delay must be made available to the right holders. Mrs Van Toorenburg's aim is to ensure that the victims get their stuff back sooner. I would point out that the law speaks of "right holders." So it also applies to the scooters of people we suspect of a robbery, but from whom we haven't gotten the case done or who haven't been able to get it done or haven't gotten it done yet. These people will then have the same rights to have their possessions confiscated without delay. That seems logical to me, but I would like to point out that, in her explanatory statement, Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke only about the victims. It will go both ways: each rightholder will immediately, et cetera. With this remark, I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	There is another amendment, namely that of Mrs Van Tongeren in respect of item No. 5. Mrs van Tongeren does not participate in the debate, but she has tabled an amendment. There must also be a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	Yes. This amendment aims to incorporate a recital from the directive into the law. That recital in the Directive is that it would provide an additional guarantee for people who do not have a residence status in the Netherlands, who could then simply be eligible for the points covered by this law. It is, in fact, a consequence of what I had an exchange of views with Mr Recourt. I have noted that there is no reason why this law should once again confirm the principle of anti-discrimination, contrary to what is already stated in the preamble and contrary to what is already enshrined in our Constitution. The principle of anti-discrimination simply applies, whether it is in this law or not. That is why I do not think that the amendment is necessary and I would like to advise the Chamber against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you. There is now a new amendment by Mrs Swinkels to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Swinkels did that very quickly. In view of the time, I propose that I give a written response to this. It is mainly about the scope of that amendment and its effects. If the House were to follow the suggestion not to vote next Tuesday, but on Tuesday, I would also have time to send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	I'm very attached to the deadline. When do you expect to give a written response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	I believe that the government's answer to that question is always: before the votes. However, I assume that I will be able to send that reaction to the Chamber by the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's exactly why I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	I see that there is a need for a second term; Mrs Kooiman is very enthusiastic. I'd like to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The SP, as has already been shown, is in favour of this law, but we still have suggestions for improvements, and that is why I have tabled two motions for resolutions. I think the motions are clear enough and that's why I'm reading them straight away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that disabled persons and victims of 12 years of age and younger are interrogated by experts trained for this purpose;]] [[Whereas also minor victims of sexual abuse are in a vulnerable position and benefit from a child-friendly interrogation room and this specialist manner of interrogation;]] [[calls on the government to extend the target group for a special hearing studio to include underage victims of sexual abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34236-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	In response to what the Minister has already said about this, I would add that I did not say 'all minors'. I am concerned about the possibility of more tailor-made work. My second motion concerns deadlines. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that victims who wish to be kept informed of the progress of the case should be informed at the latest two weeks before the hearing;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the extent to which these deadlines are met, to indicate the reasons for failure to meet them and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34236-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. I, too, welcome the commitment that the Minister will forward to the Chamber the concept of the concept of the AMvB. I do wonder whether he will include the financial implications and, if so, whether he will send them to the Chamber. We talked about the step family extensively in the interruptions. I have tabled an amendment on this, and I look forward to the Minister's written response to this amendment by the end of next week at the latest. So, let me get this straight, he'll be in the Chamber before Easter. About the privacy of the victims' data in the criminal record, I'm filing the next motion. The motion is aimed at granting a right of refusal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that victims' personal data may be included in the criminal record;]] [[noting that this personal data may be disclosed to the suspect through the criminal record;]] [[Whereas, in the case of sexual offences, a victim may already refuse to include medical data in the criminal record;]] [[Whereas the victim should have control over the inclusion of his personal data in the criminal record in all offences;]] [[Whereas the law already provides for a judicial review as regards the composition of the criminal record and the defendant may apply to the court if he considers that he is harmed in his defence interest;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a victim is given a right of refusal to include personal data in the criminal record,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34236-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr. Chairman. I did not interrupt, but perhaps I can make one comment about what Mrs Swinkels just said. Perhaps you should only organise a ground for refusal if there is a complaint. In that case, I can imagine, but if not, I don't think you should start. I will continue to address the Minister, through you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. He has talked with us in detail about the various aspects he has wanted to deal with properly. We have indicated that sometimes it is a search to give a victim an enforceable right. I understand that the Minister is now saying that he would not want to do so in principle. That's what he wrote in the written round. I do not think that Victim Aid Netherlands has argued for that in vain. If we re-evaluate our Code of Criminal Procedure, that could be something we should look closely at. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to the JHA Council, i.e. internationally, and his commitment to see if our embassies are aware of the directive. We have been promised by the Minister that he would like to talk to us about two amendments. With regard to the third amendment, he made the point that the goods will have to be returned to all right holders. I think that's part of the rule of law. If you're entitled and you'll get something back, you'll have to do it right away. All I have left is a motion, but I see Mrs. Swinkels standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	Yes, one question, Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	I heard that Mrs Van Toorenburg is already starting to think about the right of refusal or consent, whatever we are going to call it. Can I then invite Mrs Van Toorenburg to think further with me about the content of this motion? In other words, will you think about this with me, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	Of course I want to think about that! Yeah, absolutely. I also think it is important to hear what the Minister thinks about that. My first remark was that in some serious cases, you want the case to end, because the suspect has to leave the street. Then, unfortunately, sometimes you also need information from the victim to prevent another victim. If you want to give a victim room to stop something, you should do it especially in case of a complaint, because that's what a victim's really more about. After all, he or she has brought the matter in, and I am allowed to direct the follow-up a little more than when it is done in a different way. Let's talk about that again at another time. The only thing that really bothers us is the financial implications and the pressure on the police. We have tabled the following motion together with Mrs Kooiman of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that legislative proposal 34236 entails significant implementation costs and that the increase in workload will be at the expense of operational capacity in the national police;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable in view of the lack of financial resources in the national police;]] [[Whereas the EU has made available a multiannual grant for incidental costs for the implementation of this Directive;]] [[Calls on the Government, the implementation costs and the increase in workload not to reduce current budgets and operational strength in implementing organisations, including national police, and to inform the Court in spring;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34236-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I do not really have any more questions myself and thank the Minister for the answer, but with the amendments I am still a bit in my stomach. I am concerned with two amendments, namely those tabled by Mrs Swinkels and those tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Both amendments want to put something in the law, which the Minister has said extensively that it is already in it. Then it's gonna be tough. In itself, I find both amendments very sympathetic. I also believe that step-parents or step-brothers should be able to speak within reasonable limits and be treated as victims, because they are victims nine times out of ten. It's mostly a technical story. The minister's gonna send us another letter. I still miss an appreciation of both the government's amendments. Is the Minister going to leave these amendments to the opinion of the Chamber or does he say that you should not accept them? I just need some more information before I can inform my group whether we should vote in favour of these amendments because they really add something to the law or whether they are a bit of nonsense because they are already in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	I think the Minister can answer directly. That's the case. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the questions raised and for the broad support I have for the legislative proposal. It is important to note that we are talking about a legislative proposal which strengthens the rights of victims not only in the Netherlands but also in Europe. This means that in future Dutch victims will also be better treated in other countries, have the right to more information and will have a better position in a lot of areas if they are unexpectedly victims of a crime abroad. I'm just checking to see if there are any individual questions I'd like to deal with. Mr Recourt asked one question about the amendments. I will make sure that the letter I am going to send, after the consultation I have just agreed to with the authors concerned, is accompanied by a proper list of what I think of the amendments. On this basis, the spokesmen can then form their opinions and give advice to their political groups. I'll move on to the motions. The motion in part No. 15 of Mr Kooiman and Mr Recourt, as Mrs Kooiman has explained, is actually supporting the policy as I have just explained in the explanation to both Mrs Kooiman and Mr Recourt. First of all, customization must be possible. Customisation must also be the starting point. At the same time, those who belong to the target group mentioned by Mrs Kooiman and Mr Recourt in the motion and who need to be interviewed in a special interrogation room should be eligible for this. That's how I explain the motion. This means that the motion supports policy and that I leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mrs Kooiman, together with Mrs Swinkels and Mrs Van Toorenburg, has tabled a second motion, on part No. 16 on clarifying the deadlines for keeping victims informed. In a way, if it is right, that discussion will be obsolete in the very short term, because the Public Prosecutor's Office, in cooperation with a lot of other parties, is now working on a digital victim's window, where the victim can see what progress has been made every day, 24 hours a day. We therefore no longer need these deadlines. But for the time being we are not ready and we do need these deadlines. That is why Mrs Kooiman has tabled the motion for a resolution, which may well be difficult to meet in all cases the two-week deadline; think, for example, of the speed limit. Moreover, this should be done in every case within two weeks. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this again with the Public Prosecutor's Office. I am also willing to see whether this is being kept in the systems; I do not really know that at the moment. If this is not the case, it will be very difficult to comply with the motion as far as the measureability of the data is concerned. I propose, however, that I inform the Chamber. Can I understand the motion in such a way that it emphasizes once again that it is desirable that the two-week period should be reached where it is possible, and that, where it cannot be done, there must be a very good reason why it cannot be done? For example, that can be quick justice, but it can also be something else. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 17 that Mrs. Swinkels has submitted. It asks me to ensure that the victim is given a general right of refusal to include personal data in the criminal record. I am really concerned about this motion, probably for the same reason as Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned. The starting point is really that I have already written a comprehensive letter to the Chamber on this subject...... that we want to improve the position of the victim and the protection of the privacy of victims in all areas, in accordance with the research carried out by the WODC. I explained the lines before that, and I'm going to end them, too. At the same time, we have established that in our procedural law it is necessary in some cases as a suspect to know who has filed a complaint against you and what you are accused of by whom, just to have the opportunity in your defence to defend yourself against it. I believe that every victim will in principle exercise such a general right of refusal, including victims who may know that their declaration might not be able to pass the test of criticism. Indeed, as we all know, it is not excluded that a report should be made for the purposes of criminal proceedings, whereas it later becomes apparent that the report is not serious. I would certainly make use of such a general right of refusal as the principal of a criminal offence which I myself, if I think longer about, know has not taken place. Then how are we going to ensure that the defendant is able to defend himself against this? I'm really a little worried about this motion. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	The reason for this distress is the possibility for the defendant to defend himself, which, of course, is part of the course of the criminal proceedings. That has been taken into account. That is also the intention of the recital in the motion which states that Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already provides for a judicial review. The prosecution shall determine the composition of the criminal record. If there were a right of refusal, the judge would have to weigh those interests against each other. That is the thrust of that motion. However, I would like to give the victim that right of refusal, so that it can be weighed against the importance of the defendant's criminal trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	I can understand that in itself, but you will do so not by way of motion, but by way of dealing with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we are going to discuss very soon. The implication of what Mrs Swinkels is now raising is that every victim who makes use of the right to refuse should be given a judicial test as to whether this is being done on the right grounds. That's kind of a big deal. That is what I want to think about at least longer than the three minutes I have right now. I would therefore like to suggest to Mrs Swinkels that we hold the motion. If she doesn't, I'm gonna find the motion really untimely and I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	I will certainly continue the motion and discuss it with the Minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	Fine. I propose that we do so when dealing with the relevant Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	At the request of Mrs Swinkels, I propose her motion (34236), No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	The motion in part No. 18 partly confirms what I promised the Chamber. I am aware of the risk of significant implementation costs. We have set up a number of pilots for this and expect the result in the summer of this year. I will ensure that the Board for the 2017 budgetary treatment is informed of those estimates. I made that commitment. This motion draws that forward and asks me to make something clear on the basis of research that has not yet been completed. It's complicated. I cannot carry out this motion, however much I may wish to do so, and I must therefore discourage it, while sticking to my point of departure to inform the Chamber of the consequences in good time for the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Chamber has adopted a motion asking the Cabinet to inform us on the spring note about the strength of the police and the consequences of all kinds of cuts. That is why the Spring Note is in this motion. That fits with a previously adopted motion. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will not be able to agree to this if he reads the motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	I am very aware of that motion. I am busy answering that and informing the Chamber about it for the purposes of handling the Spring Note, but because I am developing pilots to find out what the actual costs are, I cannot bring this forward. I'd really like to finish those pilots. I have to inform the Chamber what it's actually going to cost. It doesn't turn out to be that easy. That is why we are doing this investigation. I understand very well that Mrs Van Toorenburg would like to know sooner. I would also like to know sooner, but I really do think I should have the chance to do the research. That's why I have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	The motions will be put to the vote at a time to be determined.
