ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. "The parcel delivery guys are here to argue for decent wages and normal conditions. They have my support." That tweeted the Minister on 30 March 2015 when striking parcel delivery companies from PostNL visited the Ministry. Meanwhile, PostNL's parcel delivery companies are the most commonly used example of bogus self-employment. The Chamber organised a hearing and all the members of the Chamber were convinced that something was very wrong with PostNL. The minister wants to be a champion in the fight against phony constructions. That's what he's going on in Europe for. It is a spearhead of the Dutch Presidency and that is a good thing. What are the performances in our own country, however? The minister was going to talk to the sector and he would indicate that PostNL should treat his people nicely. What has he achieved at PostNL? We've been a couple of months and I don't think anything has changed. FNV Transport and Logistics also notes it in a letter to the minister and asks if the government wants to put order in the chaos in the parcel market. Is the Minister going to do that now? Yesterday, the Chambers Committee received an email from competitors of PostNL: DHL, DPD and GLS. They say that if it continues with the false self-employment at PostNL, they will also go that way. They outlined a trend towards the loss of 10,000 safe jobs which would then turn them into insecure jobs. Then exactly what the Minister says he doesn't want to happen. They also refer to the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Labour Relations. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the Tax Administration is already talking to PostNL about a model contract. What's gonna be in there? From answers to questions from Mrs Vos, I conclude that if the possibility of replacement is in the contract, the Tax Administration will consider that there is independence. That's not supposed to happen, is it? A judge assesses whether there is an employment contract or not. He does that not only on one aspect, but on much more. I'd like to hear the opinion of the Minister and the Secretary of State. It is not intended that only if the contract states that you can replace yourself, there is independence. The Minister would consider how the Labour Inspectorate could assist the Tax Administration in establishing an employment relationship. I can't wait to see what's going on with that. I also ask the government to make a commitment that all parties in the package market will be involved in the drafting of the model agreement with PostNL. The ultimate question, of course, is: does the Minister accept the sham self-employment at PostNL or not? Is he gonna let the virus pass from bogus self-employment to the rest of the sector or not? If he wants to be a champion of bogus self-employment, then I will let him go to Europe, but he will have to put his house in order first here, at PostNL and in the parcel sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Your work should allow you to live in the Netherlands. You should not work so much overtime structurally in the Netherlands that you hardly see your children. I repeat: this is the situation of many self-employed parcel delivery workers who work de facto on piecework. These are supposedly self-employed parcel delivery companies, because there's nothing independent about it when you're prescribed exactly how to work, when to work, whether to wear a uniform, what kind of car to drive, and if you don't even have time to advertise your company, because you only work for one client. That one client is PostNL. I sometimes call that the court supplier of bogus self-employed workers. As a Member of Parliament you are often surprised, surprised or bewildered, but this time I was just unpleasantly surprised to read that PostNL is working on a model agreement within the new DBA Act, which would make enforcement easier for this government. How is that possible, I ask the Secretary of State. How is it possible, after all the debates we have had on PostNL and the undesirableness of bogus self-employment, that PostNL is now turning into a model contract for self-employed people again? With Mr Van Weyenberg and the Secretary of State, yesterday we debated errors in the model agreements, errors that the Secretary of State admitted. It would be nice if the post-NL message and the model agreements were also a mistake, but I fear not. Because the answer to my questions only leads to confusion. It states that, since these are cumulative conditions, it is not sufficient for the assessment to be carried out if one of these characteristics is not met. Then it is the criterion of'replaceability'. If you can prove that you can replace yourself, it seems that you are automatically self-employed. Can the Secretary of State explain what he means by "cumulative"? Are all these other criteria of authority and pay-out no longer valid? Doesn't the tax authorities participate in PostNL's tax border exploration? If so, then that's the end of the employee, because soon any employee will be able to replace himself and soon we'll all bezzp'ers. If it is true that PostNL may still work with self-employed workers with the model agreement, the other parcel delivery companies will do the same within no time. Yesterday, someone told me that it saves 30% of the cost. Then they no longer have to pay contributions and taxes, and then we haven't even calculated that the client often puts the self-employed deduction in his own pocket. My final questions are for the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The parcel market, a beautiful market, is growing, while the market for letters is falling. There is now a sector with nice work for parcel delivery workers. In some neighbourhoods and villages, the parcel deliverer is as popular as the former postman. I know of two neighborhoods where the neighborhood revolts, because the parcel delivery guy has moved or has to stop working. Surely we are not gonna let it happen that, because of the cleverness of the market leader in the parcel market, the whole sector starts with murderous competition on working conditions? PostNL is not the only parcel deliverer who occasionally regulates the rules light or poor working conditions, but we won't let it happen that soon only cheapzzp'ers will deliver packages? The parcel delivery guys can become the new mailmen, the ears and eyes of the neighborhood. But above all, let it be good work, normally paid and with normal working conditions and a collective agreement applicable to the whole sector. Package delivery guys also have a right to be home on time and see their kids. Is the Minister going to do everything in his power to prevent this sector from going to the gallemies because of murderous competition? Is the Minister going to let the collective bargaining parties and companies talk to each other? There must be verifiable and enforceable agreements. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this should simply be a collective agreement for all parcel delivery companies, so that the Secretary of State for Finance can turn all his attention back to enforcement through the DBA Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	It is right that Mrs Vos should appeal to the Minister for his responsibility in this process. What struck me in the answer this morning by the two directors of questions from Mrs Vos and Mr Kerstens is that much is spoken about the DBA Act and the enforcement by the Tax Administration, but that enforcement by the SZW Inspection does not appear in those answers at all. How does Mrs. Vos feel about that? Has the SZW inspection, given court rulings on this point, not taken on a too little explicit role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	I very much agree with Mr Heerma. The Minister's previous letters on the package market also stressed the need for the Labour Inspectorate to monitor and enforce. I noticed that, too. I hope the Minister will say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	The number of inspections carried out by the Labour Inspectorate has been halved over the last five years. If Mrs Vos calls on the Minister to inspect more in high-risk sectors, for example, not only in hotel cleaning but also in package delivery, is it really disappointing that the Labour Party is voting against D66 amendments for more inspectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	The funny thing is that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are here. The Secretary of State's DBA Act has been adopted. D66 has unfortunately voted against it. This law, on the contrary, facilitates the enforcement of bogus self-employed persons through model contracts. That is what the debate is about: is this law going to help so that the Labour Inspectorate can focus much better on the sectors in which it is really necessary? As far as I am concerned, it is not necessary in the package sector at all because, given the nature of the work, I cannot imagine it being done by the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	This is not an answer to my question at all. We may differ on the DBA Act. The core is that a lot of people work as employees, including in parcel delivery. It's been a risk sector for years. Instead of more inspections, there are fewer. I understand that the Labour Party is looking at the laws of the VVD Secretary of State all the time, but I challenge Mrs Vos to take a look at the policy of the PvdA Minister. Once again, I ask why the Labour Party does not support D66 amendments for more inspectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	Because we believe that precisely the DBA Act makes the work of the Labour Inspectorate less necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. This morning, I spoke to two mailmen. Yesterday I also spoke to some of them, but this morning I also met two of them. You see them when you're riding your bike and step off to ask them what the attractiveness of false self-employment, independence or working under a contract is for them. That's where surprising answers come from. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech. This debate has also been requested because of the tax deal PostNL has or had concluded. In June last year, the Secretary of State indicated that all agreements made between the Tax Administration and individual taxable persons are based on a proper application of law, but are also subject to a confidentiality obligation. Isn't that right? Of course this is possible, but what is the impact of this on all the other companies that are working in the postal market after liberalisation? Looks like it's a black box now. I'd like to get some clarification on that. PostNL has now offered self-employed delivery workers the opportunity to join the company. The self-employed delivery workers were able to consider whether they wanted to continue as an entrepreneur or to become an employee. A small proportion, about 10%, has used this opportunity to enlist. Can the government give us the current state of play? Does it look like more people are going to choose this? Can we still do that? Can the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment indicate where the attraction lies for working under a subcontractor? One of the stories I heard is that they make six long days a week of sometimes about twelve, thirteen hours a day. In such a month the net amount is €1,100 or €1,200. What's the attractiveness of that? This is the practice I belong to on the street. Why do people who want to join the service receive such a much worse contract offered by PostNL than their colleagues who have been working there for a while? I give them all a good contract. That is the way to choose between two evils, I ask the Minister. If it's different, I'd love to hear it. Meanwhile, new disturbing messages have appeared in the media. The chaos surrounding the status of self-employed drivers would last for years, I read in De Telegraaf. That is the assessment of lawyers following a series of court cases brought by parcel delivery companies at different courts in the Netherlands. In three cases, according to the court, there was a disguised employment and not in five cases. How does the Minister view this process? We know him as the minister who opposes the phony constructions. This is a story he could take with him. I can see that I am going through my speaking time very hard, so I am skipping a small part of my speech. It happens. I've had most of it. I mention a matter of topicality. The government would increasingly opt for competitor Sandd, because it is cheaper than PostNL. The question is: can it be even cheaper if people are already squeezed into this market? Is this message correct and has that company made such a deal with the tax authorities? Why does the government ever choose Sandd? I am referring here to liberalisation, which has always been opposed by the PVV. My colleague Graus has often talked about this and there have been many debates on it. Before liberalisation, there was a stable market, if you can talk about a market, but the situation was stable in every case for the people who had to implement it, for the delivery people. Despite the promise that it would be cheaper, everything has become more expensive. Just look at the price of the stamp, which has almost doubled in a few years. And the service level has decreased. You'll only live in a region where there's almost no mail delivery company, where there's no ATM and you name it all. That has been said many times by the PVV. I would like to hear another reflection on this. I'm rounding up. We know the postman's profession as an honorable profession. The PVV has opposed the liberalisation of the postal market. We are now seeing the erosion that this liberalisation brings. Let us not forget that a large part of the Netherlands still depends to a large extent on postal delivery. If dividends are led in this market, a utility market in which decent working conditions should be leading, there is something wrong with this national pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested by Mr Ulenbelt for the summer in response to constant reports and problems concerning PostNL and self-employed parcel delivery workers. Since the request for this debate, a number of things have also happened. Various judgments indicate that sometimes there is not, but sometimes there is an explicit fact of employment and therefore a false construction. The Minister rightly stated in the letter of September that it is unacceptable if so-called self-employed persons actually operate under the direct authority of a client. He says that this needs to be handled firmly. I think that everyone in the Chamber agrees with that, but this debate also raises the question of whether this is going to happen. The sector itself is very divided. This has already been indicated in several previous contributions. Competitors attack each other with positions: one does it wrong or the other does it wrong. Most competitors indicate that PostNL, as the market leader, is setting the wrong example and getting out of the market, with all the consequences. After all, all the other parties are going to work towards that. The Minister stated in the letter of September that the sector recognises that a deliveryer is entitled to decent working conditions and decent remuneration. It calls on the sector to take additional initiatives and improve them. He states that he is going to keep his finger on the wrist as a minister. How's that going? How's the meeting going? Are there any steps being taken? What role does the industry organisation TLN play in this? What role does the Minister himself play in this process? What role does the Minister take in this ongoing issue with regard to working conditions and the use of bogus structures? How does he keep a finger on the wrist and is he satisfied with how it goes? Much has already been said about the workers. However, this issue is not only about employees but also about employers. That comes up every time. That's already signposted at the hotel cleaners. We have also discussed the mushroom sector and transport in recent years. Bona fide employers also suffer from these kinds of cases. Yesterday's letter from competitors also states that the water flows to the lowest point. How is it prevented that workers are the victims of construction, but also that employers cannot compete against distortions of competition? Enforcement plays a central role in this. I already had an interrupting debate with Mrs Vos. The answers we received this morning to questions from the PvdA Group frequently refer to the new DBA system. It is clear that the cabinet has a lot of confidence in that. There is also a great deal of reference to the role of the Tax Administration in the enforcement of such structures in parcel delivery. However, the Inspection SZW is not mentioned. The SZW inspection also has an explicit role to play in the enforcement of bogus structures and questions such as: what wages are paid, are collective agreements violated, is the minimum wage likely to be violated? Mr Van Weyenberg has repeatedly tabled amendments and we have jointly tabled motions on the inspection as a regulatory tool in the labour market to deal with bad situations. I'd like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Why is the focus on enforcement only on the Tax Administration and why is there no explicit role for the Inspection SZW, as I believe it is necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I saw you cheating on your list of people who would speak on behalf of the VVD. You are probably used to seeing Mr Mulder here, but I have the privilege of taking over the social affairs portfolio from him. You'll get such a nice file as this on your desk and the next day such a debate. I have tried to get as much depth as possible into what has recently been exchanged in the Chamber on this subject, and that is a lot. A round table was organised, among other things. I have mainly based myself on the letter from the official scout appointed by the Minister. When I read that letter through my eye hairs, I notice that everyone recognizes that there are problems, but also that there is no agreement as to exactly what the problem is. Let alone agree on a solution. That's what makes this difficult. I suggest first that the VVD believes that the self-employment, the zzp-ship, is beautiful and should be able to enter this market. This is also said by the trade unions. But just when you love entrepreneurship, you have to fight false self-employment. In the meantime, the new law which should improve enforcement has entered into force. Others have also referred to this. Enforcement is the red line in this issue. Everyone has to abide by the law. The Minister writes in response to the report of the official scout that he is keeping his finger on the wrist and that enforcement will be intensified. What's gotten into this holding a finger on the wrist for six months? What happened? What role has the SZW and Employment Inspectorate played in this regard? Mr Heerma has already asked for this. How is cooperation with the Tax Administration going? The situation at Post NL was an important driver of this debate. We have also received signals that make us frown the eyebrows. Are we really talking about "zzp-ship" here or not? Or is this bogus self-employment? It is difficult and the Chamber must be very careful to make harsh statements about this. For that we have bodies like the Tax Administration and the judge for a reason. In the end, it is up to them to decide whether or not to comply with the law. There too, I see contradictory things. There have been court cases betweenzzp'ers and Post NL. In one case there is talk of false self-employment and in the other case there is no talk of false self-employment. Can the Minister explain the difference between those statements? What does this mean for all other employees at Post NL? The PVV spokesperson already referred to another contradictory signal. Post NL makes the offer to thezzp'ers to become an employed person at some point. You would expect massive use to be made of it if there is a huge problem. However, they are not large numbers. What does this say? Is the offer not good enough, is it not well communicated, or is the 90% of thezzp'ers who do not use it really satisfied? After all, we also get occasional signals that parcel delivery guys love being a zzp'er. In short, entrepreneurship is beautiful and it can also play a good role in this market, but everyone has to abide by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. From this point on, I welcome Mr Van 't Wout in the company of the social affairs spokesperson. The debate we are having on PostNL is actually about much more. It is about the organisation of the labour market and whetherzzp'ers are an opportunity or a threat. For D66, that's clear: they're an opportunity. Zzp'ers make an important contribution to the labour market. They provide knowledge and flexibility. Very often they are also extremely satisfied. 85% of the zzp'ers want to be zzp'er in the future. However, Mr Van 't Wout rightly said it: just when you likezzp'ers, it is important to be strict when people are involuntarilyzzp'er or if the rules are not enforced. This is in the interests of those who actually want to be employees, and in the interests of entrepreneurs who are potentially disadvantaged because of false self-employment. Mr Heerma rightly said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	The level of the chair is being adjusted, but that does not change from your speaking time, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, this is totally fine. I would like to thank you for this support; this is better. Are people who have to deliver packages for one client almost all day long, who have to do this in a van that must be white and have a PostNL sticker, which must wear PostNL corporate clothing and also meet all kinds of other detailed requirements, really independent entrepreneur? You can indeed question that very seriously. In the round table organised by the Chamber, this was also done in Chamberwide. There were really literally critical questions about this, from VVD to SP. It is also a difficult debate, because the judgments on this issue are divided. In a number of cases, the judge considers that there is indeed a false self-employment, but in many other cases the judge considers that there is a genuine undertaking. In those cases, it was said that real entrepreneurs had been hired by PostNL. Those statements show there's a gray area. I therefore ask both leaders to reflect on the case law so far. It is, of course, important to make that grey area, as far as possible, a little less grey. For example, I assume PostNL will want to conclude a model agreement with the Tax Administration in the framework of the Deregulation and Assessment of Labour Relations Act. Those agreements shall be public unless the applicant does not wish to do so. I would very much like PostNL to choose, if there is nothing to hide, just to make it public. I understand that they may be getting some company-specific information out of it, but the core of the model will be public. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if they intend to do so now. Will the Secretary of State call on PostNL to do so? I know that confidentiality is ultimately a right of the taxpayer, including PostNL. We can have a very wide-ranging debate on this, but let us not. Would the Secretary of State at PostNL at least like to appeal? It's about the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr Van Weyenberg wants this model to be public. My question concerns what he said before. Does he think PostNL can work with the self-employed, given the nature of the work and the degree of independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'm very concerned about the constructions there. I think it is very good for the judge to rule on this, but I do not have the illusion that from this point on, I can have a judgment on every particular case. I do not think that is something we should do as a Chamber. That's up to the judge. However, like Mrs Vos, I am very concerned about these constructions. My question is about the agreement the Tax Administration made with PostNL in the past. That is why I call for openness. I think it is very good that in a number of cases Judge PostNL simply flagged back. After all, shiny self-employment must be combated. However, I am not a judge, and neither is Mrs. Fox. I know she's the same way about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	Publishing a model agreement can mean two things. Even if it doesn't go public, it'll leak like that. Furthermore, all parcel delivery companies will then work according to this model agreement. The question in advance remains whether Mr Van Weyenberg believes PostNL can continue to work with the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm trying to understand the question. Is Mrs Vos now saying that I should impose some sort of ban on hiringzzp'ers on an entire sector? No, I'm not for that. However, this has to be done according to the rules, and I am very concerned about that. By the way, if the Labour Party thinks that we are going to ban the company from now on, then it considers D66 to be completely opposed. However, in dealing with false self-employment, I am her ally. I myself have been making very critical remarks about what is going on at PostNL for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	We are talking about bogus self-employment. Even when I hear Mr Van Weyenberg, I can't figure out how to do this type of work at PostNL as a self-employed person. He says that this has nothing to do with truly independent entrepreneurship, which we are both in favour of and of which we both know what it means. How can he find that the work offered by PostNL or other parcel delivery companies can be done as self-employed, given its planning, the hierarchy required and the nature of the work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u21	I have great concerns about this, but at the same time I note that in a number of cases the judge says that this is self-employment. I do not know whether Mrs Vos is asking me to say that the judge is wrong, because I do not think that is how we organized it in this country. My point is that if you're really a self-employed person, you have to follow the rules for that, too. Then I'm fine with it. But I do have a lot of concerns about a lot of practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u22	What is striking about these statements is that they concernzzp'ers and not self-employed people with staff. In such cases, the judge comes to a different judgment. The Secretary of State has promised in the First Chamber that the model agreements should be public. For that reason, my party across the street voted in favour of that law, while she had voted against it in the Lower House. Mr Van Weyenberg now says that the employer or the client can decide whether they are public or not. That is why I ask the Secretary of State, through Mr Van Weyenberg, whether it is all going to be public or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u23	I don't think this was a question for me. Mr Ulenbelt used me for a moment to put a further question to the Secretary of State. Of course, I would like to offer him that opportunity. My group has always considered this openness to be very important. The Secretary of State has always indicated that there are limits to this because of the tax laws, which state that you as a taxable person are entitled to confidentiality. I assume this is still the state of play. I therefore agree with Mr Ulenbelt's question. I never heard that everything was gonna go public. My group has always asked us to do everything in its power to do so. I also make this appeal to PostNL today, because as far as I am concerned, the more public it is, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u24	In this way we find ourselves in the unique situation that Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 and Mr Ulenbelt of the SP agree: it must be public. Isn't that right? Am I right to draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u25	I'll make a call. In the debates in the House of Representatives, I have already raised the issue of greater openness, together with your colleague, Mr Bashir, who spoke about this at the time. Even then, this Secretary of State was quite obstinate. I understood him a little, because we have a law on confidentiality. I took that as a fact back then. If me and Mr Ulenbelt have the right to privacy, so does a company. However, I also think maximum openness is important; we fought for this together during the treatment. I therefore agree with Mr Ulenbelt's question. I have made an appeal to the Secretary of State to go after PostNL himself, bearing in mind the legislation. However, I am also looking at the Minister for Social Affairs. Following a question from colleague Heerma of the CDA, he was going to keep his finger on the wrist. I'd like to answer that question. I would also like to know how many inspections the Inspection SZW has carried out in the parcel market. It is well known that this is a sector of concern to us. We also have these concerns about the workers, not just about the possible false self-employment. What happened? When I ask the Minister for more inspectors, he always says that we do risk-oriented surveillance. This seems to me to be a case in which extra inspections have been carried out. I like to hear the numbers. I believe that the inspection SZW has a very important role to play in this. I have the same concern about risk-based supervision. Rambam has shown that the workers there seem to be violating the rules. Following that broadcast I also received messages from employees of PostNL and from the parcel industry. So that also seems to be a concern. I'd like a response from the Minister. What's he gonna do? Does he recognize the signals? And what does the Inspection SZW do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u26	I note that the rulers need about five minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u27	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and I have used the suspension to discuss which one of us could begin, because there is something for both of us to say. I will first outline the framework and then the Secretary of State will go into the DBA Act. Last year I had the problems in the parcel delivery sector mapped out. Indeed, there was evidence that package delivery workers had to do their job under difficult conditions. There were also doubts about the independent status of manyzzp'ers in that sector. Those doubts also existed in the Chamber. As regards working conditions, the situation was clear. The findings of the Inspection SZW showed that much still needs to be done to improve working conditions in the sector. The workload and physical stress are too high. There is also enforcement action on these points. The Inspection SZW imposes requirements and monitors their implementation. All eight major players have been visited. In the first instance, seven requirements have been set out. In the end, that is the case now with six. Of course, this also leads to follow-up visits to check that these requirements are met. On the issue of the independent status of thezzp'ers, the situation is and was less clear. The scout's report shows that there are considerable differences between subcontractors in the sector. Some people are certain that they are real entrepreneurs, others seem very much to have false self-employment. It is important to note that the major problems are not only or not so much in the relationship between the parcel services and their contractors, but precisely in the relationships behind them, i.e. between contractors and subcontractors. One could call it the problem of intermediaries, or the problem of self-employed workers. As a result, the large parcel services sometimes have a limited view of what is happening in those relationships, and therefore also of the concentrations, such as sometimes there are, of abuse and underpayment. This has been discussed with the major parcel services. Precisely because these parcel services have a poor view of this, they should be extremely reluctant to award contracts to intermediaries. PostNL, which employs more than 90% ofzzp'ers in the sector, has concluded that it does not want to go on like this. The company has concluded an agreement with FNV and other negotiators that allows allzzp'ers to join the company. That agreement has been rejected by some of the deliveryers, but it provides the basis for an offer made to the deliveryers. According to the company's statement, about 10% to 15% have now opted for permanent employment. In addition, there is a large group that has qualified for entrepreneurship by meeting the requirements of the NIWO (National and International Road Transport Organisation) for an entrepreneurial licence in the transport sector. We also see that the NIWO is more closely monitoring the presence of the necessary permits. However, there are also deliverers who do not want to be employed and who do not want to meet the requirements for entrepreneurship. Some of the delivery guys whose contract was terminated went to court. The judge's ruled on a number of occasions in those cases. In that sense, I could agree with the summary of some of the speakers. Secretary of State Wiebes knows these things well and can quote them by heart, but it is clear that the judgment is mixed. Sometimes there was independence, sometimes there was an employment relationship and a contract of employment. Last week, the First Chamber passed the DBA Act. This gives the client more responsibility for the proper characterisation of the employment relationship. I wrote last year that the sector itself will now have to take responsibility. Mr. Heerma and Mr. Van 't Wout asked for that. It has been noted that there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty about independence and that working conditions on a large scale are not in order. Then you have to do something as a sector. That does not mean that we leave the whole to the sector. The demands we make at the level of working conditions are simply imperative requirements based on the Arbo Act. This must be met, otherwise it will lead to fairly firm sanctions. I understand from the NIWO that many companies only want to work with self-employed people who have the required NIWO permit. PostNL has also taken steps in this direction, but there is still a final step to be taken. Most of thezzp'ers worked there as well. We have kept in touch with the biggest parties in the sector in recent months. The consultation often did not make much sense. This is also apparent from the correspondence that went to the Chamber. The parties were mainly in the process of blaming each other for not complying with the rules and asking us to act as referees in them. During the legal treatment of the DBA Act there were also many specific reasons that made it difficult. However, I still believe that this growing sector, which is very large and where there are many differences between the players, is obliged to come up with more than just point fingers at each other. I recently spoke to TLN (Transport and Logistics Netherlands). The FNV also refers in its letter to the consultation with TLN. It has been said that the main priority is still to align with the parties in the sector. I can't guarantee this is gonna work, but I think it's worth it. So it is not a question of whether or not you comply with the law, but of what agreements can be made between you to clarify, for example, non-compulsory but desirable permit requirements for self-employed workers with whom you work. In addition, there is the issue of piece wages, which is especially the subject of another player. This can also be a way of paying people below the minimum wage. I indicated that this spring the cabinet will return to it in the context of the overall revision of the minimum wage. So we are not ready on that point either. The sector can do something there, but it may also be that we will have to do something there. Then I come to the cooperation between the Inspection SZW and the Tax Administration. The findings of the inspection will be passed on to the Tax Administration. The inspection gives signals about false self-employment in inspections under the Foreign Labour Act to the Tax Administration. The inspection has no independent task to assess employment relationships. Its task is to monitor compliance with a number of labour laws: the Arbowet, the Wav and the WML. In this context, the inspection may encounter signals that there is no independence but false self-employment and perhaps there is a working relationship. Those signals can be shared with the IRS. Furthermore, the possibilities for the Tax Administration were limited to do something with them. That was one of the reasons why it was necessary to implement legislation so that the Tax Administration itself can enforce it. The role of the inspection in answering whether or not an employment contract is involved is therefore limited, indirect and derived. This does not mean that the inspection cannot pick up relevant signals from the inspections it is carrying out, which sometimes also say something about a trend and which may again be of interest to our policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u29	The Minister speaks of a limited role of the Inspection SZW, but it is clear that there is a role. It is about the legal minimum wage and false constructions. The letter of 23 December mainly refers to the administrative role of the Labour Inspectorate, in the sense of asking for risk profiles and such matters. Can the Minister indicate whether the Labour Inspectorate is actually carrying out physical inspections and, if so, whether signals are being sent to the Tax Administration? Can the Minister elaborate a little more on this, because the letter referred to above mainly concerns the collection of data from companies, i.e. some sort of administrative inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u30	The distinction between data retrieval and physical inspection is not always so sharp, but of course the inspection focuses mainly on the laws that the inspection must control. When it comes to working conditions, it's the order of the day when you're going to look on the spot. How are the materials to work with? What's the work schedule like? This is not only a demand for information, but also a question of whether people are not under undue pressure from work. The inspection does not have a separate task to check for employment relationships. That's what she lacks the tools for. This will always be done on the basis of whether there are signs that the WML is being evaded. The WML is originally a more civil law law but has become increasingly public law. And that is also right because we think that it is a standard of decency that is respected. It is often very exciting and difficult for the inspection to show whether or not a minimum wage is paid. You can also see it a little back in the discussion about the numbers. Mr De Graaf mentioned an amount of €1,100. This would be below the statutory minimum wage as it would be at €1,500. So that couldn't be done at all. That calculation is likely to be based on a gross amount from which all kinds of costs will have to be deducted from a company, with the question of whether there is sufficient left to speak of a minimum legal wage. So that makes this discussion much more complicated. This is reflected in the case law when assessing labour relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u31	I refer to Rambam's broadcast, which has already been mentioned by several speakers in this debate. This concerns cleaning in hotels, working relations and collective agreements. In that broadcast it is very clear what the difference is between theory and practice. Something that fits on paper has to be right in practice. I'm just making a little bridge to this sector. Also for self-employed people, it can be true on paper, but not in practice. The Minister used the word "indirect." The Labour Inspectorate has that role and responsibility indirectly. Again, that example of Rambam indicates that it can be true on paper, but that it can be very wrong in practice. Should and can the inspection in this area no longer be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u32	Luckily, we have the inspection. Everything is always fine on paper, but the reality is of course different. The agreement between the cleaning business and the DHL case is that it was about piecework, and that there were suspicions that the minimum wage was not paid. This leads to the question: is piecework still enforceable in this form; should we not look at it politically? The reason the inspection is going to look there is that there are concerns about whether people are paid below the minimum wage. Well, that makes it relevant. You have to have a double distracted suspicion if you only want the inspection to look at something on the title of the contract of employment. In the case of self-employed persons, it remains important to comply with all laws in an employment relationship. These signals are, of course, picked up and shared with the Tax Administration. Unfortunately, there is a delineation. It is understandable in itself when you look at the difference between civil and public law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u33	I think it's a gray area. The Secretary of State for Finance keeps saying that he is reviewing the tax rules and that he is considering whether premiums should be withheld. We had a debate yesterday in the Chamber on other matters. That's not what the IRS is looking at in a model contract like this. But someone who is self-employed when he is not has, of course, because he is de facto an employee, also to do with all kinds of powers of inspection. I refer, for example, to the rules on working conditions and the minimum wage. I understand that this is not just about the Labour Inspectorate, but I have the question with Mr Heerma whether there could be a more explicit role for her than the role that has been played up to now, regardless of the fact that the inspection also has an important role to play for all those people who are employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u34	That is a legitimate and legitimate question. The phenomenon of false self-employment has all kinds of shades of gray. Mr Van 't Wout said it nicely: entrepreneurship is fine, but you have to abide by the law. Only, behind that, a reality arises in which it is very difficult to establish. This is reflected in the case law. A judge has to really sit down to come to a conclusion. It would be too easy to say to the inspection: go and look at it from now on. That is not Mr Van Weyenberg's plea either. But there's a good thing to say. The first step to be taken is to give this new law a chance. At least that shines the pressure a lot. It also finally provides enforcement agencies with tools to maintain where they could not in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u35	My appeal would be to seek cooperation. The Secretary of State for Finance has spoken about where the role of the Tax Administration ends. In view of this, too, I believe that a great deal of cooperation will be needed, particularly in sectors where we see that there is a danger of confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u36	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u37	The Minister's reaction is very disappointing. The FNV asks: shovel chaos...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u38	Create chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u39	The FNV is asking for order in the chaos in the postal market. PostNL's competitors say that the government has to act as a driving force. But the only thing the minister says next is that parties have to figure it out. That's when parties say they can't. The Minister wants to be champion of the fight against bogus constructions, and so on. Those phony constructions are the order of the day here. What's the Minister gonna do? Now can he do something more than just say: figure it out together? That's not worthy of a Minister for Social Affairs, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr. Ulenbelt!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u41	It's 12:10. Last time I received compliments from Mr Ulenbelt during a debate. I knew it would have to be compensated at some point. That's what's going on now. I think we are very much in agreement that false self-employment is not right, that it is an undermining and an erosion of the entire Dutch system. The question is just how one finds that there is false self-employment and who is responsible for it in the first place. I think it is very important to keep the pressure on the players, so certainly also on PostNL. They have to show that they've done everything they can to rule out false self-employment. This has led, partly under the influence of the FNV, to a number of major steps. In the past it was said that nothing is going on. After that, people were offered the opportunity to enlist if they wanted to. In the past it was said that PostNL complies with the rules, but now PostNL says it has not yet been fully implemented, but the requirement is that it wants people to work with NIWO permits. Are you there? No. I find it a little dangerous to identify it now with one of the market players complaining about the competitors. After all, all these market players complain about each other. That is why I consider it relevant to address the sector as a whole, which suffers reputational damage due to the fact that there are abuses, to its behaviour. I'm big for getting order in the chaos. We therefore ensure that the Tax Administration can maintain if there is no self-employment. Fortunately, the SP Group in the First Chamber voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u42	That's a very long answer. If this chaos is so great and these parties are blaming each other over and over again, shouldn't the Minister of Social Affairs be the first to say: boys, come to me at the Ministry? He said he'd support the mail delivery guys. Shouldn't he be talking to each other so that market players can do it properly? In my view, the Minister is far from being aware of the urgency of the problem. If it turns out that competitors are also choosing thezzp tour, then the Minister has lost his credibility in the fight against bogus constructions. So I'm asking him to bring them to the Ministry. The Minister has done that before. Hit the heads together and get order in the chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u43	This is more appealing to me. Finally, Mr Ulenbelt also says: put pressure on the sector and address the sector. That pressure can sometimes consist of pushing physical heads against each other. That can be a very legitimate means of exerting pressure. But the bottom line is that the sector itself is being called upon to shoulder its responsibilities. That's exactly what I'm doing. I indicated in September that I would give the sector six months. That six months has largely passed by pointing to each other and waiting for the law to make it or not. This means that there is only a short time left to show that the message has been understood. Supported by Mr Ulenbelt, I will continue to put full pressure on the sector. It is not so much about the credibility of Mr Ulenbelt or anyone else. The point is that those postal servicemen, in this case the parcel deliverers, should be able to earn their living under normal conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u44	I asked the minister what he's gonna do. Then the Minister answers that he has done something, but that answer disappoints me. I will ask my question in a different way. It is a pity, moreover, that the Minister for Economic Affairs is not here. In the postal market, we have ensured that the two parties who are still on the subject have a collective agreement. That's also in the law. Even D66 supported that. This was done in the light of the fact that we did not want competition between the latter two companies to become so murderous that there was a private monopoly left on the part of the staff. Now the same request has actually been made by the other parcel companies, although they themselves also have packets of butter on their heads. This is more or less a request that a collective agreement should actually be the best way forward, because everyone has to comply with it. The Minister cannot force the parties to sign a collective agreement, but the Minister must be able to do more than simply point out to the sector his responsibility. What does the Minister think about demanding, as a stick behind the door, that when a company delivers packages, that company offers workers a contract of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u45	I miss Henk Kamp too when he's not here. I think it would be a good idea to invite him when we discuss this subject again next time. There is, however, an important difference between the parcel delivery companies and the mail, even though the same companies are partly active in it. As far as postal services were concerned, there was a totally regulated state monopoly situation, whereas parcel delivery was never the case. It doesn't matter. If you look at the history of post-liberalisation, you can see that there have already been, and rightly so, brackets in order to continue to regulate it, precisely because it has never been a normal market. However, the delivery of packages is a growing market. As a result, one cannot compare them so easily, which does not mean that one should not always keep the instrument of legislation in mind if one is not satisfied with the development of the sector. Mrs Vos is proposing, as a stick behind the door, a compulsory contract of employment for parcel delivery workers. If you put it differently, you could speak of a ban on working with self-employed people. Then, however, you are taking a fairly firm action in the sector. It is true that there are abuses, but these abuses do not occur so massively that at the moment they justify banning working with self-employed entrepreneurs. I'm not gonna rule out the fact that you're ever gonna have to come to that conclusion. In this sense, I think it is important to point out that this kind of signal sounds in the Lower House of the States-General when it comes to fighting against each other. That's what the sector's been told. I don't want to do this as an ultimatum right now, because it goes a long way. It would be much better if the sector itself indicated, when working with the self-employed, what is being done to ensure that it is genuine self-employed people who, under normal circumstances, do their jobs, who choose to do so freely and who are paid decently. That way, even looking at all the costs for the entrepreneur, these people can still earn a decent wage. For the rest, we offer people employment contracts. That is preferable to a total ban on working with self-employed people, because it also affects people who do so to their satisfaction. Those people exist, too. I understand it very well and consider it an argument that I like to include in my conversations with the sector, in the vein of: I'm not there yet, but parties in the Chamber are already flirting with this thought, so now speed up and show that you are handling this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u46	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u47	We were just having a discussion on whether the Labour Inspectorate should act harder. I believe, like this government, that the DBA Act is going to make a huge difference, but so far, unfortunately, in absolute numbers, there are many more self-employed people who still work in the parcel market, because PostNL is a market leader. The other companies say that PostNL is actually holding them in a stranglehold, because PostNL is allowed to work with substances in one way or another, while they still work with labour agreements. That should actually be the norm. They say: it is 30% cheaper to work with the self-employed. Now this concerns the domain of this minister. I was hoping for a little more persuasion towards the party that 'cheats', as I would call it, simply to join the agreements which the other parties seem to have in a collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u48	I understand that very well. I do not think I am a major opponent of the contract of employment or of the collective agreement. On the contrary, last week I strongly advocated this in this Chamber. More complicated in what you are asking me now is, of course, that you identify yourself with the position of some of the parties in the sector, which are competing with each other. That is the case. There are eight major players competing there. They say of each other that there is cheating. One of them says, "You use piecework." The other says you're using a contract of engagement. Another one says you work with self-employed people. My conclusion, having noted that six of these eight parties do not have working conditions in order, is that the sector as a whole should do better. And yes, I think that people, if they want to work as employees and actually do structural solid work, should be able to get a contract of employment. I think it goes too far right now to say that you should ban people from working as independent entrepreneurs. But once again, I will take advantage of Mrs Vos' speech when addressing the parties in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u49	Really a final remark, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u50	Competition on working conditions is precisely why we have a collective agreement. This is what the whole sector is suffering from right now, so that there can be no competition on the things you should be competing on. So I really hope that this competition will end within a year. In the Netherlands, we are trying to avoid this by means of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u51	Sure, but then you get to the biggerzzp issue. They are not covered by a collective agreement, with exceptions. As long as these cost differences can exist, as long as the tax treatment is so different and as long as the contract of employment is qualified as expensive by many employers by super-legal collective agreements, you keep that pressure. The least we can do is try to separate the chaff from the chaff from the chaff with the instruments that are there and that have been added. If there is a need, because we continue to see that it is not going well in a sector, then legislation must dare to consider. I agree with Mrs. Vos. As tempting as it may be, the bigger issue ofzzp'er versus employee and the real examples of abuse and bogus self-employment require us to keep things apart for a while longer. Even if you have a collective agreement and people work with the self-employed while they are not self-employed, you still have the same problem. We also see that false self-employment is used to evade existing collective agreements. It's still a problem we have to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u52	You have to deal with shiny self-employment. In my term I asked whether both directors would like to reflect on the case law. There were also a number of judgments this morning. In a number of cases, the judge says: this is entrepreneurship. I understand very well from the Minister that in the fight against bogus self-employment and in the effort to better regulate things in the sector where I am fully on his side, things that belong to entrepreneurship are allowed and allowed to remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mrs Vos came to my aid and offered to talk to me in the discussions with the sector about a legal ban on working with independent entrepreneurs. I thanked you for that. That would help to convey the urgency, but it's too much for me now. Case law shows that in some cases there are bogus structures and improper employment contracts, and in other cases there are entrepreneurship. That is precisely why I would go too far to ban the latter. I think that is in line with Mr Van Weyenberg's summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u54	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u55	The Minister said that some ideas of the Labour Party were being flirted with. Know then that at least my party, if you stick to the rules and work properly as a self-employed person, would not be in favour of doing anything about it. I therefore understand the answer that the Minister continues to fight against what is not right, while entrepreneurship in every sector continues to receive the warm support of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u56	I know the point of view of D66. I would find it a little too easy to say alone: everyone has to abide by the rules. It is also our job to keep seeing each other again and again whether the rules themselves should not be improved. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg is also able to push for this day and night. The question of how to deal with self-employed people in the labour market will of course not disappear after this. Mr Van Weyenberg and everyone else in this room will still face dilemmas that are not always easy to solve. That's the way it is. The only reason I mentioned this was that in Mrs Vos's speech both elements came back, and rightly so: both elements are also on the agenda. I have indicated that, whatever you may think about independence, false self-employment must be combated where it is at stake in this sector. It is important that we have better instruments for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. There are always difficult passages in the debate on the tax complications of an individual taxpayer. We all know that this is a matter of secrecy. This has been said several times here. There is also the rule that the person in charge should not have any involvement with the individual taxpayer. This is often unsatisfactory for both Cabinet and Chamber. I am always consoled by the idea that there are countries where the ruler is allowed to actively interfere with individual taxpayers, and that is even more unsatisfactory. That's the comfort I have to myself. What I will do is to limit myself as much as possible to the information that is publicly available about these taxpayers. I have shown myself several times as someone who actually welcomes self-employment and also considers the role ofzzp'ers in our economy to be very important. The main point of the various speakers' speeches is that there are concerns about the situation of working with the self-employed, in this case at PostNL, but also more generally. I understand that, of course. The cabinet already started two years ago about the care that was already broader than one specific company, although the situation does not indeed call for applause. I'm going to go into PostNL in a very specific way. The public is aware that PostNL is not currently working with some form of what Mr De Graaf calls a tax deal. PostNL has been working with the VAR for at least a few years. There are no additional agreements or anything else. The VAR leaves unclear, for both the client and the contractor, what can be done now. That is not clear and we have seen this in the various debates on the DBA. It is not so clear what is allowed now and there is no enforcement. So the question is what happens now if the sign of the speed limit is not clearly readable and we also know that there are no cameras. Is there going to be too fast? The answer is: I don't know, but without worry, of course, no one is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u59	For that period the Secretary of State refers to, there was an agreement. I've become aware that the initiative for that meeting came from the IRS. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u60	No, I can't. I have not been able to find out that there is public information about this. In all kinds of areas of taxation, the Tax Administration takes the initiative to hold a strong conversation with a particular taxpayer to ensure that the law is complied with. I do not have any information as to whether this has happened in this particular case. The IRS behaved neatly towards me and didn't tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u61	I understand this doesn't apply to the content of things. However, I do not think it is such a crazy question. An agreement with the Tax Administration is a respected instrument. That's okay; the IRS can do that. Well, it's not so crazy to ask whose initiative it came from, is it? I don't really understand why that question can't be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u62	I don't think it's a weird question, either, but he's covered in secrecy. It's not for me to tell you who made an appointment with the IRS about anything. I am therefore not allowed to tell you who took the initiative. I don't know that according to the rules either. So I really can't answer it. In general, the following applies to self-employed workers. We don't know who's speeding. We don't know if that's gonna happen. There is also no possible assessment of PostNL in broad terms. However, it is not excluded that situations have arisen in a number of sectors which do not comply with the law, the so-called 'false self-employment'. My experience in the last few months when I was working on the DBA bill is that the estimates of the percentage of false self-employment showed some correlation with the political color, but no one knows it. That's why, of course, we filed the DBA bill. That has been accepted, for which many parties in this Chamber are grateful. As many model agreements as possible are planned on the Tax Administration website. That means you're making an appointment about something that's okay and that's also clarity about what's right. A limited number of such model agreements of a sufficiently generic nature are sufficient in themselves, but there are taxpayers who submit separate provisions or exemplary agreements to the Tax Administration for assessment. Taxable persons are entitled to do so, and they are entitled to do so. In this context, both chambers have indicated that they are very much in favour of public access. Frankly, as someone who speaks on behalf of the Tax Office, I am very much in favour of this. Half the people who come to my desk say "this is taken far too lightly, it is made too easy" and the other half say "unnecessaryly limiting." Let us therefore set the common goal of making it public as much as possible. I have made commitments on this, including in the First Chamber and specifically to the SP. I have promised that the general model agreements, even where they are added to them, will all be public in any case. I also said that the sectoral agreements are public. All individual entrepreneurs and clients who submit an agreement are explicitly asked whether the agreement can be made public directly or anonymously. That request is made by default to anyone who submits something for evaluation. Moreover, I have promised that if, in a specific case, no consent is given but there are constructions that are really new and can therefore be important in democratic terms, they will be made public in anonymised form. We want to know what is happening. If new inventions are being made in construction land, we want to be able to learn about them. Those are the commitments I made. I will pass that on very explicitly to PostNL. If an agreement is being worked out with PostNL now or in the future, I will urge PostNL to make it public as much as possible and I will emphasise the wishes of the House of Representatives in this case to make that public. I cannot agree to that, because that is what the law is about, but I will make a very explicit request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u63	But a model agreement, it already says, is a model and not an agreement between the Tax Administration and a taxpayer? I hope to hear the Secretary of State say that, given the importance of the organisation in the sector and the other parties, I undertake to make the model agreement with PostNL anonymous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u64	No, I can't do that. I did agree with the first part of your speech, by the way. If it is a model agreement applicable to more than one taxable person, it is generic and sectoral elements. They're all gonna go public anyway. For an agreement that is assessed specifically and at the request of one company, I cannot undertake to do so. However, I can promise that I will make a strong appeal to this particular taxpayer. I could imagine we're gonna make it a long way, but we're gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u65	But now the sector says: there's chaos, get order. The DBA Act is intended to create order. Then it is strange that other parties should not take note of the agreements with PostNL? If you don't want to make it public, I won't make a deal with you at all. Then we have also achieved that those involved are paid but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u66	Creating order and maintaining order starts with just sticking to the law, so don't do what I'm not supposed to do, but start enforcement to make sure others comply with the law. But keeping to the law, there begins from my role to create order. Back to the DBA Act. Not only have I promised to strive, as far as possible, for public access, also at the explicit request of and after extensive commitments to the SP, I also agreed to have an independent panel of experts check for the planned restricted and public contracts before this calendar year. For here too, the blame is again low: one suspects an overly strict tax administration, the other too flexible. We all benefit from controllability. I am now working on the composition of that independent panel of experts. That panel is simply going to look at those agreements, and then they will give an opinion on them. I'll let the Chamber know. This is not done at the level of individual agreements, but at an aggregate level with a commitment that what is not right is repaired. So we're gonna see it, too. If, according to this panel, the IRS didn't operate correctly, we're gonna hear about it before enforcement starts. We all benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u67	Suppose the parcel industry makes a model agreement of its own. That agreement will be reviewed and it will become public because it is sectoral. Can another company then make its own individual agreement that remains secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yes, because such agreements are not generally binding. Every taxpayer is free to operate in his or her own way, albeit within the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u69	Suppose the panel of labour experts considers that the general model agreements are correct, but the individual agreements are not, do we get to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u70	I cannot report that at the level of the individual agreements. Part of the message is public and another part is not. In doing so, I pledge that what is not right will be restored. Mr. Chairman. First of all, these agreements clarify for everyone what is allowed and what is not allowed, not only for the client, but also for thezzp'er. Both of you know what's right. zzp'ers can also have an agreement checked by the Tax Administration to see if it complies with the law. So there is security in advance for everyone who simply adheres to what is written in the law. There is also certainty for thezzp'er, who has not had it so far. I read with increasing amazement the weather somewhat diverging coverage by numerous letter writers in newspapers. My reaction to that is that thezzp'er in the old system had no certainty whatsoever, but he is getting it now. This restores the balance between the client and the contractor. They are now more equal business partners, both responsible for compliance, where one is not the only one and the other is not. That's what enforcement is for. I also hear people say that, in my opinion, one of the speakers has just said this: it threatens to create the situation in which we would legalise false self-employment. No, we're maintaining false self-employment for the first time. We're gonna take it where it exists for the first time. I couldn't. I confirm to Mr Heerma that this is important not only for those who do not like false constructions, such as Mrs Vos, but also for those who believe that the law should be enforced, such as Mr Van 't Wout. It is also about preventing false competition. There are indeed sectors, and I am not talking specifically about the parcel market, where the Tax Office knows its pappenheimers, and know that there are a lot of companies suffering from one competitor that is not doing quite properly. This is happening and we must get rid of it because it is unfair competition. Enforcement will be possible, but what does not change is the boundary between employment and independence. That may or may not be a problem, but I have heard the whole range of views about it, but the Tax Administration does not judge on the basis of its own views. I hear or read sometimes "the IRS finds this" and "the IRS wants it." The IRS doesn't find anything, and they don't want anything, but they're implementing the law. That means a whole stack of case law and the Civil Code. The Civil Code defines three concepts which form the basis of the employment relationship. They've been in there for over a hundred years. They have all been hammered out by a very comprehensive case law. That's exactly what the Tax Administration does: take no space, have views or whatever, just do what the law says. Mrs Vos asked if thezzp'er could work in this sector. The answer was given, I think, by Mr Ulenbelt, who said at the beginning of the debate that the judgment is ultimately up to the judge. We can see that, of course. I'll be back later to talk about these things. At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I will reflect on this and try to see what the lessons are. One of the lessons is that sometimes this is possible and sometimes it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u71	How long do you think you'll need to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u72	If it's okay, this won't take long. Mrs Vos and Mr Ulenbelt are concerned about the concept of'replaceability'. Mr Ulenbelt said that this is all about replacement. Of course it isn't. There are three concepts for employment. If you don't meet one of those three, there's no employment. In that case, however, there is no question of independence, but in any case there is no employment. These three concepts are therefore all important and can be judged by the Tax Administration from all these concepts. It's not like you press the "replaceability button" and suddenly you're a real entrepreneur. That's not how it works at all. We will see that in the light of these cases. Firstly, there must be free replacement. That means there's no permission from the client. You can only make a number of objective demands, but if you have to leave a fixed pool or if you have to graduate first, there is no free replacement. Moreover, it is not so easy to actually meet the idea of free replacement. Sometimes it is true on paper; Mr Heerma said he could imagine something else on paper, but he asked if it was true in real life. Well, you can imagine that in a lot of work situations this is indeed hard to get right in practice. So we also see this, also at PostNL, where we have seen a number of examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mrs Vos and Mr Ulenbelt wish to interrupt, but I would nevertheless like to see how long the Secretary of State thinks it is necessary to answer all the questions put by Members of Parliament. Then the MPs will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u74	Okay, here's how it's gonna be. Then I'm gonna keep going. It won't take long. When I entered this debate, two more things had been added. There have been eight statements. In three cases, the judge came to the conclusion that there was actually an employment relationship. These were cases in which the concept of "replaceability" played a role on paper, whereas it was not complied with at all. So one of the reflections on the cases is that it really is about practice. You can write all kinds of things down, but enforcement focuses on the practice: is it really true? In a number of cases, it didn't add up at all. Those people were not replaced at all, they needed all kinds of permission or it was an accidental role in which the concept of "replaceability" was not at all so important. Those are lessons. A second reflection is that sometimes it can and sometimes it can't. On this point, I have to talk to Mr Van Weyenberg: it cannot be concluded that this sector cannot be used by people working with them, but it cannot be concluded that there is no false self-employment in this sector at all. So that's nuanced. The practice is a lot more uncomfortable than the theory. This does not prove to be as black and white as Mrs Vos fears. She described a situation that is crazy in a labour market: you call yourself "replaceable" and you are immediately a real entrepreneur. That's not how it works. I also think it's never gonna work that way. Mrs Vos and Mr Ulenbelt, more reflective than a question, have expressed the concern that this whole sector will soon be working withzzp'ers. Mrs Vos said in a moment of extreme despair that the permanent contract of employment is going to disappear completely. The law that makes enforcement possible doesn't change anything at that border. So anything that can be done in the future can be done now. This possibility is also widely exploited. Anything that turns out not to be possible will be maintained, and these things cannot be done now either. Over the years, we've had several players in the parcel market who announced that they'd only work withzzp'ers. Many of those players didn't do that entirely, only limited or not at all. We also see cases in the opposite direction. For example, Coolblue has announced that it will carry out logistics with people in employment. Albert.nl has announced to do logistics with people in employment. We do not see such an obvious movement towards one or the other. I would point out to those who are concerned about the 'en-zzp-ing' of a sector that it does not change the Civil Code, but if there is no real independence, it can at least be dealt with. You can't do that now, not even "as we speak." We are still stuck in the VAR. It ends soon and can then be maintained in a normal way. If I may make a prediction, it will not yield a witch hunt, as I often read in the media. Because at last what is right is clear, false self-employment is prevented in a neat way. Both the client and the contractor can see on the site how it should be. That's gonna keep a lot of stuff from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u75	Is there a need for a second term? Mr Ulenbelt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u76	On the website of the Tax Administration there is a model contract called "No obligation to work personally." There's room for prizes and a signature. The website suggests that I am a self-employed person when I sign that agreement and so does the client. That is the model agreement. Then who looks at the rest, when the client says to me: you have to wear that and that package, but this is on paper and everyone sees this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u77	What's the rest of it? If there is any other, it may need to be included in the agreement. There are cases where one of the six main models of the model agreements does not fit. Where appropriate, additional sectoral or business-specific provisions may be made and additional agreements may be made with the Tax Administration. There are also cases where the generic agreements are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u78	This means that it is not yet guaranteed that I am a self-employed person if I only agree such a model agreement in practice, because there is much more under the sun?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u79	If you stick to that exactly and don't do things that clearly contradict that, you have security in advance. Of course you can want to work in a different way and you can let elements sneak into it like a relationship of authority or other elements of replaceability that go against it not to the letter but to the spirit. Then you have to sign a separate model agreement. That is why there are sectoral agreements, because sometimes it does not quite fit. You want to give as much security as possible in advance focused on the existing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u80	I actually want to finish this and move on to the second deadline, but if there really is a question left, it can now be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm gonna have to ask for some clarification. It seemed very clear when the Secretary of State said that substitution is really not the only criterion and that the Committee would review model agreements on all other aspects. When I had to fill out a VAR, you had to answer all kinds of questions. These included several clients and the question of whether you were advertising. They were small elements that made you an independent entrepreneur. The answer to Mr Ulenbelt's question suggests that in a model agreement that can be the one criterion and that only after the tax administration checks the practice can it be seen that you have not done well. What's the deal, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u82	If you do it exactly as it says, you have certainty in advance, unless, of course, you introduce evident elements that go against it. The VAR, which Mrs Vos knows from experience, intended something quite different from the model agreements. They differ on two points. First of all, the VAR intended to give a ruling on all the employment relationships of thezzp'er. That is an impossible task, and it has failed flagrantly. The VAR therefore intended to say something about the whole of employment relations, while the model contract relates to the employment relationship for which you decide to work in this way. The second is that the VAR tried to answer the question of whether someone was actually an entrepreneur, while the model agreement answers the question of whether a wage charge is due. The final assessment of entrepreneurship cannot be based on a single employment relationship. At the VAR we are caught up in this impossible task and that has made enforcement very difficult. So it's really different. The questions that Mrs Vos has found on one form really differ fundamentally from the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u83	We have supported the DBA Act in both chambers. So I will not argue that it is not an improvement, because I see that it is. The Secretary of State just made a rather explicit reference to the point I mentioned in my term: the difference between paper and practice. That everything on paper becomes clearer and more manageable with the DBA Act, the Secretary of State has now argued quite thoroughly, but how does the model agreement and the DBA Act improve enforcement in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u84	So far, you could only maintain with an individualzzp'er. In doing so, you had to recreate his entire life to find out whether or not he should eventually be covered by the payroll tax. Due to the fact that the client is no longer protected but has security in advance that is something else it becomes possible to maintain at the level of the client. For example, you go to a greenhouse builder where 200 contractors work and you evaluate what is going on there, at that level: what about the reward, the authority ratio, the replacementability and all other things that are peripheral and play a role in the employment relationship? That wasn't possible so far. As a result, we can maintain it in a much more efficient way, but also in a much more pleasant way. There is still an advantage compared to the past: now it is also clear. I explained it just now on the basis of a highway: the signs showing how fast you were allowed to drive weren't really readable and there were no cameras along the road. A lot of those parties, clients and certainly contractors, were of course in good faith. Did they know it was a sham self-employment? How the hell did they know? And that's getting clear now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u85	The comparison with those signs that clearly state how fast a car can be driven, I think that sums this up well. It is also very good that this is happening, but precisely in the example that the Secretary of State has just cited, it is about an entire sector, it was a different sector than this one suffering from one employer, an entrepreneur, who knowingly is doing it wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u87	How does the DBA Act help with this? This is usually the case for young people, but they do know exactly what the speed is; they did not misunderstand it. This employer does it knowingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u88	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u89	What does the Law DBA do for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u90	Checks on the workplace are possible. You're going to a company like this. Of course, that's what the IRS is good at. It's not about book checks. The books don't tell the story. It's true in the books. That is the story of Mr Heerma himself: in the books it is all right, but reality is not right. The Tax Administration is an organization that is involved to a large extent in determining the difference between the practice and the books.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u91	We are now going to the second term. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions. I give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to involve all stakeholders in the sector in drawing up the model agreement between PostNL and the Tax Administration, under the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u93	This is a market leader and in order to assess this, all parties must be involved. I am very disappointed in the attitude of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. There's chaos in the sector. All the major parties that suffer from it ask the government to do something. The Minister then says he'll put a little pressure on it. Once again, Minister, would you bring the parties to the Ministry so that they do what they have to do? Can you come up with laws and measures to put order in the chaos, if the parties do not do what they have to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u94	Mr. Chairman. I listened carefully to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and to the Secretary of State for Finance. I don't need to file a motion right now, because I think that especially the DBA Act should really have the chance to prove itself. If the Secretary of State for Finance succeeds with the DBA Act and that law is also going to do what it has been adopted for, namely to facilitate enforcement, the Secretary of State will have to focus much less on bogus self-employment. I think that is the desired outcome. It will hopefully also mean that PostNL will report to the collective agreement table, whether or not with hanging legs or raised heads, to join the collective agreement in force, at least if I know the sector well. We are then away from the current competition on wages and working conditions within this beautiful sector, which also provides good jobs for many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I look forward to the outcome of the State Secretary's appeal to PostNL for more publicity. I have good hope that will work and that PostNL will be prepared to do so. I am a little shocked by some who say that we should make the new model agreement more generally binding, something that Mrs Vos hinted at. The Secretary of State has always said in the legal process that this was not the intention. If that is the intention of one of the coalition parties, I am not getting any more optimistic about it. Moreover, I am not going to become a sort of ban on working forzzp's in some sectors. It is about dealing with bogus self-employment, and that is where our energy needs to go as far as I am concerned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been concerns about the working conditions of parcel delivery workers for a number of years;]] [[noting that the number of labour market fraud inspections has been halved since 2011;]] [[Whereas legislation will only have an effect if it is maintained;]] [[Calls on the Government to strengthen the role of the SZW Inspection in enforcement in the parcel delivery sector;]] [[calls on the Government to mobilise additional resources in the 2017 budget decision-making, if necessary, to increase the capacity of the Inspection SZW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29502-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u96	I note that the Secretary of State and the Minister can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr. Chairman. First, Mr Ulenbelt's motion on item No. 117. I would like to stress once again that I am very sympathetic to his call for openness. This motion is, indirectly, such a cry for it, but I must strongly discourage it. I cannot force any taxpayer to do so together in any way. Entrepreneurs are not obliged to interfere with each other's tax bills or with each other's business model. So this is really not feasible. If Mr Ulenbelt wants to have these sectors at the table himself, and if something like this comes out of it, just as has happened in some other sectors, there is nothing against it, but from my role I cannot force the parties to implement this motion. That's why I really shouldn't advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u98	This means that an organisation of self-employed persons will soon be presented with a model agreement from PostNL which it has not even been able to negotiate. That's the world upside down, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u99	No one's supposed to take an assignment he doesn't like. The government does not tell how contracting parties should deal with each other or how entrepreneurs should co-operate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mr. Chairman. First, a comment about my attitude. I agree with Mr Ulenbelt that it is important for the sector to show better what it is doing against false self-employment and underpayment. I will continue to appeal to the sector. The motion by members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma asks the government to play a more prominent role in the enforcement of the parcel delivery sector. I have just stated in detail that all eight companies, all major players, have been inspected for working conditions and that this has led to a large number of enforcement actions, to demands and to follow-up enforcement. That role seems to me to be sufficiently fulfilled in itself. In addition, we have had a debate on whether or not there should be another role. I can't take care of it on a motion. In that respect, I must advise against the motion. This also applies to the advance already being made on the release of funds for the 2017 budget. That's premature. The proposals for this budget still need to be developed. It seems premature to me to take an advance on that now. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-5.u101	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
