ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister for Security and Justice. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Bontes on behalf of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation for Jitse Akse, a veteran who took up arms against ISIS and then was arrested with a bag over his head. This while returning jihadists get a job, education and housing. What a country! Jitse Akse isn't a criminal. He's a hero. The Minister for Security and Justice must take action as soon as possible. We say, "Give the D.A. a lead so this hero won't be prosecuted." Give him protection, because he's been targeted by the blundering state's attorney's office. I asked for this debate almost two years ago. Since then, we have seen several terrorist attacks in Europe. Terrorists, infiltrated the asylum influx, were involved. Innocent citizens became victims of the political elite's open border policy. It all gets worse: IS is preparing new, large-scale attacks this year. But the boundaries just stay open. It's crazy! 345 radical Muslims are constantly being watched in the Netherlands. The NCTV warns that returning jihadists have been ordered to sow death and destruction in our country. Ministers, finally do what you have been appointed to do. Protect the Netherlands. Don't leave a single asylum seeker behind, and immediately arrest jihadists through administrative detention. These are measures that should have been taken two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join Mr Bontes in his first words on Mr Akse, which saves me a piece of my prepared text. Mr. Akse received a treatment as the cartoonist Gregory Nekschot, while he was just a hero. Terrorists have free travel in the EU and therefore to and from the Netherlands. This cabinet deliberately puts the inhabitants of the Netherlands, the people it should protect and serve, at risk. This cabinet does not let violent Muslims go, but keeps them here. This cabinet doesn't put recurring terrorists in the way, but it pampers them. This cabinet keeps the borders open for large flows of asylum seekers, between which terrorists can hide to settle here in the West and prepare their ugly things. This cabinet is doing the opposite of what it should do. The PVV has always been clear on this point. If you want to fight, do it in your Islamic dream paradise. Let them go, and make sure that thug never comes into the Netherlands again. In short: denaturalize, deport, refuse and never allow into the Netherlands again, to mention a number of examples of policy. Why does this cabinet forsake this important task? Why is the cabinet willingly and knowingly endangering the inhabitants of the Netherlands? In the answer do not come up with propagandistic answers and reports that are not right. Stop spreading sand in the eyes of the people. Respond to the facts that are to be mentioned today and finally take action against the justified feeling of insecurity, unease and unrest that is in the grip of many, many Dutch people. Thanks to this cabinet, I'm adding. Last week, NCTV warned that Islam terrorists returning in the near future may be even more hardened and dangerous than they already were. See also one of the last movies that ISIS posted on the internet. Some of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris can be seen in this while decapitating people. A new Paris has already been announced. All the more reason to re-introduce border controls. An additional advantage of these border controls: you can really know how many returners you have in your home. National police in the Netherlands are monitoring 345 radical Muslims. The AIVD talks about hundreds of jihadists and thousands of sympathizers. The services have rightly received extra money, but it is in this way, with the open borders, fighting against the beers. Through various governments Islam is subsidised even with Dutch tax money, while on the other hand more money is needed to combat the hatred, violence and terror that Islam produces here. That's complete mesjogge. I would like a response from both ministers. Secretary of State Dijkhoff has repeatedly said that the use of asylum influx by terrorists is not obvious. The services, from NCTV to Europol, also claim that there is no evidence that terrorists enter Europe by this route. However, two of the perpetrators of Paris came through Greece; Turkey has eight Moroccans who have ties with ISIS and wanted to travel in Germany as refugees, and today we have heard that an IS suspect has been arrested in Belgium in an asylum seekers' centre. There are also the many testimonies of asylum seekers that there are IS fighters in their midst. Moreover, asylum seekers go into the asylum procedure without a passport or with a false passport and the procedure to fish the terrorists out of it is a wash nose. Again, why does this cabinet endanger the Netherlands? Terror is not just about knives, bombs and guns; it is also about what happened in Cologne. "Among other things in Cologne," I have to say, because in many more cities there was something going on. In the Netherlands Almere is the sexual assault example, but there are many more. However, the Netherlands has a cover-up culture and the Katwijk CDA mayor Wienen even admits that. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that this administrative quack is removed from office? I repeat the call to go guard the border and not let in an asylum seeker or a terrorist. Only then will we be able to put things in order. Do born terrorists want to go to ISIS? Let them go and enter administrative detention. I would like to receive a response to these proposals. Finally. As soon as only one death falls in the Netherlands, the first after Theo van Gogh, thanks to Islamic violence, this cabinet is co-responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	I saw the PVV leader, Geert Wilders, in a video. He said: thousands of refugees, thousands of asylum seekers are attacking our women. I thought the PVV spokesperson will come up with all these thousands of examples in a moment. But I only saw one example of sexual assault in Almere. Is the rest of you coming? Can we get it in writing? Or are you gonna scare me again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	We have four minutes to speak in this debate. Everyone makes choices, including Mr Öztürk, who makes choices, such as the choice to post this interruption. We all see what's going on. We see what happened in Cologne, Hamburg, Stuttgart, mention all those German cities. We see what happened in Helsinki. In the meantime, we know that Sweden's sexual assault paradise is the rape paradise, to put it another way, thanks to the Islamic mass migration. There are also a number of things here, like in Almere. If you only see what was news yesterday about riots in asylum seekers' centres and noise taking place there, then there is enough going on. I still say it very neatly and softly with the word "noisy," because it's just gang fights. If Mr Öztürk wants to defend or deny that this is happening, or if he thinks "it is my people who are doing this," it is up to him. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	I leave that to the PVV spokesperson, Mr De Graaf. With this he proves once again that they are terrifying, that they have no concrete examples. They can't show to the Netherlands, to all those people who read those newspaper messages and those Twitters, that it's actually true. They're talking nonsense. They're raging the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	My question is: stop this!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	I call on Mr Öztürk to stop defending rapes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. I have to get rid of the tone that has been set, but I have to do it in an inappropriate way. You can say a lot, but it's nobody's business to make this cabinet responsible for murders, and it's nobody's business to say someone's responsible for rapes or rapes. I couldn't help but think about it. I'm a little hoarse, by the way, but try to make myself understandable. Today we are debating two different types of terrorists for the same purpose: to commit an attack and to cause death and destruction in our country. Sometimes they come through asylum flows, sometimes they have returned from Syria, for example. They're two different target groups, but we're getting them together today because there might be a threat from these groups. We want to see more progress in the measures proposed by this cabinet. We really must not sit still in these areas. In 2014, we saw an action programme. Unfortunately, although we in the Chamber have produced reports and asked questions to the cabinet a number of times, it takes a very long time for us to get answers to those questions and to be able to hold the debate. I therefore call on this cabinet to speed things up and to put things in order. First, I'm going into the "V" and "J" part. Two months ago, National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security suggested that those returning from the war in Syria posed a less serious threat than originally thought. The message was almost reassuring, but of course that was completely wrong, because there was already a report in the drawer that showed that returned jihad fighters are more hardened than ever. How could those two messages have gone out at the same time? They can't appease us first and then tell us that these people are more hardened than ever? All reports clearly show that these returners are extremely risky. They burned ships behind them, ended up in hell and returned disillusioned, perhaps with a terrorist mission. The CDA doesn't want these guys walking around in our society. At first, we would have thought that their network would take the edge off, now that the network is ineffective. They're shutting down. We therefore call on this cabinet to include these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about varying signals from reports. What does the CDA think of a mayor sending varying signals, for example that he covers things up first and then admits that there have been serious incidents in the Katwijk azc?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	I don't recognize the term "doofpot." I recognize that there are occasional signs that something is going on and that it is important that action is taken in response. If that is not made clear in advance, it is not good. As soon as it happens, it will have to be discussed. That's how a mayor should act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	I am pleased with this answer, but do not understand that last Sunday the CDA defended Mayor Wienen of Katwijk in De Telegraaf. I think it was Mrs Keijzer who said: there are worse things, there are bigger things, and this has to come out in larger reports. Then why was the mayor defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	It is precisely for the reason I have just mentioned that if there is something very serious going on, it has to be indicated that I am pulling it in a broad sense and if it is not. He just did. So I see no light between what Mrs Keijzer says and what I say. As I have already indicated today, people who return from Syria, from hell there, must be locked up to see what she has driven to leave, what they have experienced there and how they would see their possible future in the Netherlands. We really believe that these measures should be taken. There are occasional pre-trial detentions, but this measure is not always applied. I believe that the cabinet shares the opinion of the CDA Group that these people should not simply be able to walk around in our society and that they are a very serious danger. If the national coordinator states the same thing, we have to forward it. We also see that the security services are far from being able to follow everyone. There's too many of them. We can't keep an eye on them this way, but we have a duty to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	I have a question for Mrs Van Toorenburg about her comment on the detention of returners. We've been working on that for a long time. It is the group on which everyone is most concerned. Of the 40 so far, only 8 have been convicted, but that "only" also has to do with lack of evidence. What would be the legal basis for securing returners? We've already explored a lot of options. We have considered whether they can be declared crazy and whether electronic detention is possible. What should be the legal basis for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	We have rightly been very careful to move immediately to a form of detention, but the latest reports show that we really need to do something. By definition, that could be a pre-trial detention, for which we need to change the law. It is possible that we still introduce administrative detention for this category. We can put them in jail because they are a danger, just like people with open tuberculosis. We can try that way, too. We need to look again at how these people can, by definition, be detained if they are life-threatening when they return. The national coordinator shall also indicate that. At first we thought that they could still be rerouted into the cloak of their own network, but in the report it is clear that that does not work. They're shutting down completely. Even if they don't even plan to go on a new mission, they shut themselves down from all those deradicalizing noises. I fear that we will have to intervene. That doesn't have to happen forever, but we need to make it in place. If you turn back, you'll have to be locked in. During that detention, we need to see why someone burned all the ships behind them, what someone has been through in that hell in Syria and what possible future someone still sees for themselves and we see for him. I've got 55 seconds left, so I got to keep going. In fact, too few people have been convicted of criminal offences. What can we learn from Belgium in this respect? Belgium can learn a lot from us, because our police are in the capillaries of society. We do a number of things very well in our police, but in terms of convictions we go after Belgium again. Let's see what we can learn from each other. The other subject is also very important. The screening in the azc's is still insufficient. It is said that it is in order, but in the end it is not. Moreover, there is a huge influx of refugees, which only increases waiting times. We are also concerned about this. Allow me to use the last ten seconds. We have received a letter from the cabinet about an adopted motion to ensure that the information collected by the AIVD can be used in criminal proceedings. We received an incomprehensible letter from the Ministry of the Interior. It sounds really bad, but I'm really asking if a lawyer has been watching that. Van der Steur's signature isn't underneath it, which I think is missing. The letter says it's a long time ago. It cannot, however, because it cannot be verified. In France, solutions have been devised for this. All reports indicate it; people have recently been promoted to it: it cannot be done. Otherwise, the Minister would probably have said it was an unnecessary motion. He didn't say that for nothing, so we'd like to get a new appreciation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. This debate addresses two important issues: returning Syrians and possible ISs in the refugee stream. D66 also takes these issues very seriously, more than seriously. I'll start with the ISs in the refugee stream. For D66 it is very important that we know who comes in here as soon as possible. That starts with a quick and thorough screening of the refugees. At the moment, refugees in the Netherlands are only carefully screened after six months. Moreover, the Safety and Justice Inspectorate indicated in November that the summary way in which the registration and identification of asylum seekers is carried out leads to insufficient substantive assessment of asylum applications. Both the director of NCTV and the foreign police confirm this. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, who is not here, so I am asking the Minister whether he will respond to these calls. Is he going to give the IND more capacity to screen refugees as quickly as possible and filter out any IS fighters from that stream? Can the Minister indicate how many IS fighters we're dealing with? How many have been detected in the refugee stream at the moment? How'd it go with that one Al-Qaeda supporter and IS who spent a short time in Zaandam? It's not just about the Netherlands. screening must also be carried out thoroughly and quickly at the external borders of Europe. As long as there are no well-equipped hotspots on the edges of Europe where screening can take place, terrorists in Europe are free to go. My group tabled a number of motions on this subject, but the cabinet continues to dissuade them. Is the Minister prepared to stand up for a European coastal and border guard with sufficient resources to screen the refugees and to give substance to the Presidency in this context by giving it priority rather than waiting for a Council position? As far as my group is concerned, this can and must be more ambitious. Then there is the new European platform, I say to Minister Plasterk, which, in cooperation with Europol, improves the exchange of information in Europe. Will the Netherlands as EU President deploy this platform on this issue and map the number of ISs in the refugee stream across Europe? I come to the returned Syrians. Returners could be a threat. After all, they were also the attackers in Paris. D66 doesn't close her eyes to this. Returners should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, followed, if necessary, by the AIVD and the police and criminally prosecuted in the event of suspicion of involvement in terrorism. However, also look at the longer term. In addition to punishment, it is about deradicalisation and reintegration of these people. It must be ensured that if they have served their sentence they no longer pose a threat to society and that that threat is removed. In this context, like Mrs Van Toorenburg, I would like to point out that, at the moment, I quote from NCTV, who are returning to the Netherlands, are often seeking to reconnect with jihadist circles and that reintegration processes are only a small part of the world. The NCTV also indicates that the second batch of returners would be more hardened and violent than the previous returners. Can Minister Plasterk respond to this warning? How many people are we talking about? How does he deal with this more hardened batch when it comes to deradicalization? Does the current approach work for this second group? I'm closing up. D66 represents a rapid, thorough screening of refugees, strengthening the European Border Guard and deradicalisation of returners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	If the D66 Group sets out so clearly what the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security has indicated, does it agree with us that perhaps you will have to use the heavy means of securing people to see how dangerous they really are?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	D66 joins the CDA in improving border surveillance at the borders of Europe, but we are very hesitant in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, but that's a crack. Does D66 really think that we should look when people come back from that hell and burn everything behind them? Mrs Swinkels herself says that they are almost impossible to deradicalize and shut down and that we can't just let that target group wander around?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	The current criminal law already offers a great deal of opportunities in the preparation of crimes, and prosecutors and police can already do a lot. They can tap phones, and they can start looking. There's a lot possible. So if Mrs Van Toorenburg asks me this, my answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Much is possible, but unfortunately we have to find out from the figures that it is not being done. That's the big problem. People just walk around and don't get convicted. They're just a threat and the AIVD can't keep an eye on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	The instructions are sufficient to open an exploratory study, for example. In addition, the police can do a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	I have a follow-up question on this. I believe that the second generation return group is the biggest problem at the moment. Of the 40, only eight have been convicted. Almost all Members of Parliament have expressed their concerns about this and no one has answered so far. What would be the answer to this group from D66? What would D66's answer be to the question of what to do with the other 32? Deradicalisation is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	That is the question I put to the Minister. So I'd like to wait for that answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	But mandatory integration doesn't work either. If someone doesn't want something, someone doesn't want it. If someone doesn't want to deradicalize, you can get someone to participate in such a program against their will, but it doesn't work. How does D66 see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	The question I just asked Minister Plasterk is what approach he proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mrs. Tellegen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	But I ask what D66 thinks of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	First of all, I await Minister Plasterk's reply to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	And Minister Plasterk is the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. We are here today because there are concerns about possible rotten apples coming into the country with the refugees. People are afraid of terrorists, such as IS fighters, who could travel with the refugees. The fear of terrorists is understandable. Also with me the chills run over my back when I look at the images and listen to the stories of the atrocities of ISIS. People who want this kind of repulsive evil should not come to the Netherlands. In fact, people who kill others because they do not grant them freedom of religion or belief should be tried and imprisoned. But that is not what this debate is about. The debate we are having is about whether such people are among the refugees who are coming to the Netherlands. It is fair to say that this question can only be answered by our police, our General Intelligence and Security Service and the Immigration Service, the IND. This question can therefore only be answered by these ministers, who are responsible for a large part of the operations of these services. In particular, the last service in my list, the IND, assesses the asylum applications. The IND looks at each refugee individually. What Mrs Van Toorenburg said is true: the increased influx sometimes means waiting longer than is desirable before people are properly questioned and screened. However, I would like to put a question directly to the cabinet. What are the latest figures? In the meantime, have people been caught? Are there any people who pretended to be refugees exposed as terrorists? If so, how many are there? What are the chances that someone like that might have entered the country, but not been caught? I'd like to receive a response. After all, we need to talk about the facts. Violent extremism is not welcome here. That's not welcome anywhere. That's why so many people are on the run. More than 60 million people have had to leave their homes and homes worldwide because they were threatened by violence. Sometimes the violence comes from terrorists, but it can also come from their own government, as is the case with the Assad regime in Syria. Unfortunately, there are also more and more people fleeing the bombs from the West. Those are French bombs and, if I may believe the reports from the media, will soon be Dutch too, if the Netherlands is going to take part in the bombing in Syria. What will the fact that the Netherlands is considering participating in the war in Syria possibly mean for the radicalisation of young people in the Netherlands? The overwhelming majority of refugees are fleeing violence and are not themselves violent, although the propaganda of the right is eager to make us believe it. The image on the right is wrong: most refugees are real refugees and certainly not terrorists. In order to detect real dangers and to stop any terrorists or other criminals, the services must cooperate as much as possible. This applies both to the IND and to the security services. Do the IND and the AIVD have sufficient capacity to adequately screen? And is anything actually done with any signals in all cases? What is the connection between the two organisations? Is there sufficient cooperation? The recent attacks were often carried out by people known to security forces. The SP has tabled a motion, which has been adopted, which states that different security services need to work together better. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Furthermore, the SP has asked to map out Salafist organisations and to block money flows from countries to the Arab Gulf to Islamic organisations. We are curious as to how the cabinet will carry out these motions. Firstly, in order to combat terrorism, it is important for the district agent to be found in the neighbourhoods and for a local worker to be present. You saw in previous attacks that there was a lot of savings at work in the neighborhood. There is still too much cutting back on the police in our country. The police told us yesterday that she has too few people to do her job properly. Finally, I would like to ask the cabinet: what does it do with such a call from the police? Because if we really take safety in the Netherlands seriously, then we really cannot ignore such an appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about returned Syrians and infiltration by IS into the refugee chain. I'll start with the Syrians. We know three groups: those who wish to travel but cannot do so because we can stop them, those who manage to travel and not return, and those who travel and return. To begin with the first group: the VVD does not take the short-sighted view that those who want to travel to Syria should go their way. We stand for our values, always and everywhere. Murders in the Netherlands are as bad as murders in Syria. Someone who strengthens the enemy against whom our army is now fighting will not let you go. That's how travellers inspire those who stay behind. You're just creating more jihadists. It's stupid to let them go. The risk of them coming back three times as radicalized is great. Exodus must therefore be avoided. We are currently doing this in different ways: by taking away their travel documents and by imposing an exit ban. Those who take preparatory actions to participate in the fight shall be prosecuted and arrested. When jihad fighters have travelled to Syria, we must prevent them from coming back. The last thing we want is for them to return trained and harnessed to our country to make attacks here. That's what we saw at Paris. The VVD is therefore a strong supporter of the law that is now in the Chamber to take away the Dutch identity of these figures. The urgency of that law is underlined by the NCTV report, The jihad terminated?, which shows that the second generation returners pose an even greater danger to Dutch safety. Then I come to the third group: the Syrians who return anyway. They must be prosecuted. Any information that may contribute to a conviction, including information from the AIVD's investigation, should be taken into account. I would like to receive a response from the Minister of the Interior. The main concern for the VVD lies with the group that now goes free and returns to Dutch society after a visit to the Caliphate. Many possibilities have already been explored, from declaring insanity to making them subject to recidivism, and from reporting or electronic detention to compulsory deradicalisation. These returners are coming back heavily radicalized. As far as the VVD is concerned, residence on terrorist territory is punishable, with exceptions. Unfortunately, this proposal from the VVD was not supported by a majority of the Chamber during the Paris debate, but perhaps the parties can support this initiative by now. I'd like to hear what the Cabinet will do to this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	In the meantime, I am very curious to know what the VVD Group thinks of the idea that we really need to ensure that they are all included. It is up to the Cabinet to decide on what title, preferably by definition "preliminary detention," the criminal route. If that doesn't work out, the cabinet has to come up with something else. Either way, they shouldn't be on the street. What is the answer of the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	I share the concern of the CDA. We are all concerned with the group of returners that we cannot prosecute in criminal matters but which are a danger to security in the Netherlands. We've explored a lot of options. Mrs Van Toorenburg is now putting forward a new idea. I'd like to take a look at that. We ourselves have already put forward a proposal to criminalise the presence on terrorist territory. Then they just can't get in. The cabinet should look at these options, because I do not think that those 40 can just walk free into our society again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's hopeful. I hope that we can get out, because that might make the Netherlands a bit safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	The fear that there are terrorists among the refugees who come to our country is great. I share that fear. Of course, we should not create unnecessary fear, but given the extent of the flow of refugees, the risk of jihadists coming along is considerable. There are signs that one of the attackers of Paris came to France as a refugee, or at least with a Syrian passport. Moreover, the current human trafficking industry contributes to the financing of the armed struggle against the West. The only answer to this is to contain the flow of refugees. This is now being worked on, for example by a deal with Turkey. In the meantime, we are fully committed to screening. We need to know who's coming into our country, because we need to have and hold on to suspicious refugees. In doubt, we can't let them walk into our society. My colleague Malik Azmani has drawn attention to this on several occasions and the Secretary of State has taken action and strengthened procedures. In order to ensure security, a large number of police and services are called upon. The end of their capacity to map all these refugees is in sight. Mr Gesthuizen referred to this as well. This week, the police indicated that their capacity to catch the refugees is at an end. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what this is about with the security services. Can they still handle this huge flow of refugees? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	I do hear a bit of the same reasoning as the PVV. Although I did not interrupt the PVV, I would like to do so at the VVD, because I take that party a bit more seriously when it comes to the signal that is being sent. There is still no clarity about attacks committed by refugees or about foiled attacks that could have been committed by refugees. Does Mrs Tellegen really say that, despite the lack of evidence, the terrorist threat posed by refugees is one of the main reasons for curbing the flow of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, I'm not saying that. I have made it very clear that this is a matter of fact. I have made it very clear that we must not cause unnecessary fear, but that we cannot close our eyes to the unlimited flow of refugees that is coming to our country. Nor can we close our eyes to the risks involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	This is absurd, isn't it? There is no evidence yet; I have also asked the cabinet. Are we actually going to show tens of thousands of people who are looking for a safe home, possibly also in the Netherlands, because Mrs Tellegen is afraid that there might be one or two rotten apples in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	As simple as Mrs Gesthuizen is suggesting, of course it is not at all. It is one of the reasons why the VVD believes that the flow of refugees towards the Netherlands should be reduced. There are many other reasons why we believe that this current is too large, but one of the reasons is indeed that there is a safety risk to that huge stream. On the one hand, our National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security indicates that there are currently no facts showing that there are jihad fighters among the refugees in the Netherlands. On the other hand, he says in the same press release that we must be very aware of the fact that the increased flow of refugees can, precisely for this reason, pose a danger to Dutch society. That's all I'm saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	I find this really absurd, because Mrs Tellegen is doing exactly what she says we should not do, namely create fear. Without wanting to play the ad hominem, I also find it amazing what she says. The fact that there are one or two, or perhaps 100, fraudulent VVDs out there, doesn't mean I disqualify the whole party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	Apart from the question of what fears are being raised, I am standing here to ask Mrs Tellegen the following. Does she agree that we would do well to screen this flow of refugees better and faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	I believe that this is also happening better at the moment. That is why I have just mentioned the examples of the tightening-up that the Secretary of State has made on this point. I asked the Cabinet to give the latest progress on that screening. I have made it very clear that it is extremely important that we have a picture of who enters. It cannot be that people enter the Netherlands and apply for asylum here, of whom we do not know what their motivation is to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	I am listening to Mrs Tellegen say that she agrees with the importance of rapid and careful screening. Is it therefore prepared to ask the government to provide more resources for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	I have just indicated that the cabinet has done a lot of work on this very recently. We read cell phones, we check luggage, we do interviews. I can name an endless list of what we do to all these people. That is why I have just asked the cabinet how that works. We need to stay very focused on this screening, because that is the only way we can get a picture of who we are letting into the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	You are already running away, Mrs Van Tellegen, but Mr Recourt has another question. He's a little slow tonight, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	I thought Mrs. Tellegen wasn't ready. That's the explanation. The VVD wants to revive the previous plan to criminalize residence in Syria. She says: of course there must be exceptions. What exceptions are those?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	We also discussed this in connection with the attacks in Paris. Of course, all those who go there with good intentions, such as journalists or aid workers, should be excluded. However, this is what is at stake. Someone travels to Syria and does not intend to send a postcard to his mother from there or to provide help, but to join a terrorist organisation. If he is then present on that territory dominated by a terrorist organisation, it must be punishable. Then we are also done with what we do with those 40 returned Syrians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	Is Mr Jitse Akse therefore also a criminal offence according to the law which the VVD intends to introduce?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's a good question. That depends entirely on the list of terrorist organisations that we all draw up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	Actually, the VVD says: criminalize the membership of terrorist organisations. It's already a criminal offence. Because that is difficult to implement, she says: you know what, then it just applies to everyone who is in Syria. But then you come to exactly the definition issue that we have now come to: who is and who is not? When it comes to fighting there, Mr. Akse is also a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	"Syria" is still too broad. It's really about territory controlled by, in this case, the terrorist organization IS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	I am curious to know what the VVD thinks of Jitse Akse, who has fought an armed battle and has now rightly been addressed by the rule of law. What is the position of the VVD Group in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	I can go a long way in and have a lot of sympathy for the feelings that it brings to many people when you read his story and hear about his actions. At the same time, we also have the agreement in the Netherlands that we are fighting through our official army. That is why it is now up to the prosecution to find a solution to this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	In other words, you say that this person is not a hero, that person should be tried, that person should be punished because he is hurting or killing other people without the mandate of our army and the Chamber. That's what the VVD says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	No, I'm not saying that explicitly. If you had listened carefully, you would know that I have brought it a lot more nuanced, precisely for this reason. This story is an incredible dilemma. Yeah, I have a lot of feelings and a lot of sympathy for what he's done. At the same time, we have made agreements here in the Netherlands about who takes up arms when. I wouldn't like to be in the district attorney's shoes right now, because it has a difficult task in this case. I'm making that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	Is the VVD correcting a killer, someone sitting there killing? We have received reports that villages are being bombed by certain groups in that area. That person was part of it. And you're talking a murderer right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	I really don't feel like going into this again. I have made my position clear. I'm gonna stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mrs Van Toorenburg. She's got something straightened out. Mr De Graaf insinuated that we would justify rapes and that our supporters could have done so. That was a disgusting statement. I expected the chairman to intervene. I would once again like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg for correcting this, quite rightly. We at DENK always advocate honesty and justice. Refugees must be distributed fairly throughout the world, fairly across Europe and fairly across the Netherlands. If there are problems, they must also be brought to the attention of the public. Therefore, no rapists should be covered with the cloak of love as in Germany and Sweden. Just communicate! This is also a debate about fear versus facts. Terrifying politicians like Wilders put up footage. Terrifying reporters follow Wilders. Citizens are being presented with these fear images. Some citizens then often judge with the glasses of the media. DENK wants to fight this distorted imagery. DENK is for the facts. A tiny number of problem refugees should not determine the picture for the whole group. I'm making a comparison. In the Netherlands around 150 murders occur every year and about 1,200 rapes are reported. Among the PVV voters are more testosterone bombs than among asylum seekers. This doesn't mean that all PVV's are murderers and rapists. So beware of unjust imaging, we say of DENK. I have a question for the government. There are problems surrounding asylum seekers that you have to appoint. However, there is also a lot of unjustified imagery that you have to fight. DENK therefore calls on the government to pursue a more active communication policy on this subject: communicate factual information more actively so that citizens do not get an unjustified sense of fear of all refugees. Is the government prepared to do so? We also ask the government what those facts are. How many Daesh infiltrators enter the Netherlands via the asylum seekers' stream? How many right-wing radicals are being followed by our security services? Let us also communicate those figures so that we can make an assessment. What is the government doing about this? I'm rounding up. Wilders' statements make the Netherlands more unsafe rather than safer. Wilders is and remains a terror magnet that provokes attacks on the Netherlands. That is why we from DENK say: less, less fear images, more, more facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr Öztürk asks me to say something about Mr De Graaf's comment, but you are not making it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	I didn't go as far as The Count.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, but the tone of the debate is very harsh, let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr Öztürk has rightly said that we must stick to the facts. Unfortunately, the returned warriors from Syria show that they are dangerous for our society, for everyone. Is DENK in favour of seeking a title to include those who return and are so dangerous, and to make our society safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	Any person who makes the Netherlands unsafe, whoever and wherever he comes from, must be followed. Our security forces are already doing that. You need to quarantine them and make sure they can't. I think our security services are very far away right now. I notice that public opinion reflects that people want more than what can be legally, factually and practically through these fears. That is also the field of tension every time in the parliamentary debates. The minister wants it, but he's running into all kinds of legislation. We say: take as many measures as possible to deal with those returning people who can hurt other people here. However, I think we are on the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	Doesn't it help that we show society that people are safer, because they don't have to be afraid that all these people are being followed halfway, because unfortunately we can't keep an eye on them all, nor 24 hours a day. The AIVD has informed us of this in hearings. If we channel it and secure the small group that ruins it for everyone, are we not doing much more sensible than seeing the whole group as a danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	We also go very far for this small group, but the fears do not come from the small group and not from the facts. They're from Wilders' movies. Thousands of asylum seekers would assault Dutch women. That's what creates fear. All the right-wing media show that all day long and do a little more on top of that. The same applies to all those other parties, including your party. I saw today the VVD that is afraid of Wilders' polls, 41 seats, and goes along with it, lets go of liberalism, let go of the rule of law thinking and a murderer right. That's what scares people. And I ask for your support for that, from your supporters and from your values. I ask you to stop doing that and stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	Exactly, and that's why I'd like DENK to join our proposal to just lock people in if they're a danger. Then we don't have to be afraid of everyone. Knowing they're safely locked away, we might be able to breathe a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	A brief reaction. You don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	Anyone who wants to apply any form of violence must be dealt with. That will certainly be supported by DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	Madam President. Two topics are on the agenda today: the returned Syrians and the possible infiltration into the refugee flows. These are all concerns that have to do with the possibility of attacks or terrorist offences in the Netherlands itself, linked to what is happening in Syria and the threat posed by ISIS. It has already been appointed by many speakers this evening: these are real concerns. It is good to talk about this and to find out what measures have already been taken or are still being taken. This debate was requested a long time ago and we have already had a lot of debates on both subjects. I hope, therefore, that we will not have a long, general repetition in the answer, but we can quickly zoom in on the state of play and the new proposals made by the Chamber. 'Cause that's useful. It is also the reason why I wanted to participate in this debate tonight, despite all the debates we have already had. I am curious how things stand and I would like to have a "state of affairs prevent infiltration" again. Yes, indeed, jihadists can also travel in the refugee stream. That is why, in the debate following last year's attacks in Paris, we also discussed measures to prevent people from entering uncontrolled Europe and the Netherlands without proper identification and registration. My simple question tonight is: will that hurry up? I am referring to the measures envisaged at the time, such as checking baggage and identification and registration within the Netherlands itself, but also on entry into Europe. This is because the impression remains that the borders are very porous and that the uncontrolled entry of Europe can still continue. This is also a concern that I encounter with many people in the country on evenings when we are discussing this issue. That's why I'd like to get a reaction to this. On the evenings in the country I also hear that people are wondering whether there is indeed a proper check on people entering the Netherlands or reporting as asylum seekers. The general information, also on the government website, is very general: yes, we monitor through all kinds of services whether people do not have terrorist ideas. Perhaps it could be a bit more concrete, as the public letters to the Chamber say a bit more concrete about what is being done. This could remove the concerns as much as possible. Is there also a close attention in asylum seekers' centres and in refugee reception to signals indicating support for ISIS or recruitment for jihadism? A while ago I heard in the emergency shelter that people are watching each other and are able to report it if they don't trust someone because of the stories he tells. I hope that the climate will and will remain in which these reports can take place and be addressed seriously. I would like to comment briefly on returned Syrians. If I understand correctly, more Syrians are currently dying than are actually coming back to the Netherlands. However, the group that comes back remains an important source of concern, precisely because these people may be hardened and radicalised by the experience they have gained there. That is why we support the measures that the government has proposed and hope that we will be able to respond quickly to the legislative proposals made last week. Sometimes it takes some time for the answers to come to our input. That is why I ask: when can we answer that? Following the previous debate after Paris, we also advocate that people coming back from Syria should be detained as soon as possible and that the legal possibilities should be increased. Secondly, we are in favour of the removal of nationality in the case of terrorist offences not only in the case of double nationality but also in the case of a single nationality, that is to say, the elimination of Dutch citizenship as far as possible by effectively restricting, for example, the right to vote or the right to social security and the right to be appointed to public service. I would very much like to hear a response from the cabinet to these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr. Chairman. Although this debate was requested in 2014, it is incredibly topical. Every day we read about refugees and the threat of a terrorist attack. This debate links these issues to some extent. Terrorists need to be fought hard, especially when they engulf themselves in the misery of others, but how do you recognize a wolf among the sheep? Are the measures in order? Many colleagues have already asked these questions. Is the screening now on time and can it all be done at an early stage or do you have to wait in part for the start of the procedure in the azc? I would like to skip that part of my text and join my colleagues' questions on this. Another point is the collection of information from the refugee group itself. I also heard Mr Van der Staaij speak about it. A few weeks ago, a gentleman was shot by the Paris police because he wanted to attack police officers with a knife. This gentleman was known in Germany as an asylum seeker and may have assumed several identities. It may be that this person has informed fellow residents whether he has given an indication that he wanted to commit an attack. That's all in research, but it got me thinking. There are many authorities and volunteers involved in refugees with the aim of helping them, supporting them and so on, but do all these people also have their antennas off when it comes to picking up signals that the refugee may have something wrong? What I do not think is desirable is that under the guise of Islamic aid organisations in azc's or emergency shelter souls should be recruited for jihad or Salafism. How can aid workers or organisations be prevented from being able to radicalise residents? Is there some kind of control of that? The second question is how asylum seekers themselves can report risky persons in their midst anonymously or not. I understand that many refugees are a bit afraid of authorities, but they too have every interest in a safe Netherlands. We know the one scarce example of the German asylum seeker in Paris, but also the previous attacks in Paris which show that they may have been terrorists who had entered through the flow of refugees. This indicates that exchange of information is essential. That is the key to any fight against terrorism. What's the status? Do we really have sufficient visibility throughout Europe? Have all the proposals we have just made been made in other countries? We're very vulnerable to that. An additional element are the so-called sleeper cells, possible terrorists who hide or remain silent for a while until they are activated. That takes a longer touch and a longer look. I understand that this cannot be reported to the Chamber in detail, but can anything be said about it, so that we know that at least it is being looked at? Can we be reassured at that point? The Life report at ISIS, the myth unraveled, which I have read recently, adds to the fact that people returning from Syria can increasingly be a danger. Where it was said at first that they were often disillusioned, it is now much less easy to assume that this is the case. I am not asking questions about new legislation, because we are going to deal with it. I would like to know what the success so far is and how the increased understanding that religion is playing an increasingly less prominent role among Syrians than before. What about the quality of the guidance when a Syrian comes out of prison or is still in prison? Is that quality internally present within the prison system and the probation, or is it hired? The PvdA is constantly committed to quality. The difference is ultimately made not by measures or systems but by people. You have to invest in those people, you have to employ them, and they have to be structuralally involved in your organization. Are we doing everything we can to get and keep the good people in the organization? Because we need to help refugees and we need to fight terrorists. It's that simple and that's how hard it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	Jitse Akse was brought into the Chamber by the PVV today as a hero. The VVD had sympathy and understanding for that. I would like to hear from the PvdA, Mr Recourt, who has been a judge, how she feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	First of all, I would like to emphasise the great difference between someone who is going to fight for ISIS and someone who is going to fight against it. They cannot be treated in the same way. Nevertheless, it is not up to an individual citizen to decide who is allowed to live and who dies. That's up to the government. It is therefore clear that a person cannot compete as an individual, even if that is for the good. It is then up to the public prosecutor to deal with this very carefully, but that standard is clear as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	That is clear: very good that the PvdA is holding. Her political leader, Mr Samsom, said at the time, when there was little media attention, that we should be able to handle 200,000 asylum seekers. I hear from the VVD that we are already over the top, that there is nothing more to it and that it should be even less there. So there is a huge discrepancy between the two coalition members. How are you gonna straighten that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	The future will learn. Of course, we're going to do it the way we have in recent years. The two coalition parties have a rational and good refugee policy. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	I would like to help Mr Recourt to speak, because he had little time to talk about the returned jihad fighters. How does he look at it that we might have reached a point where we would have to enclose them all, to see from there how we could possibly make them safe again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	As far as I know, I would be very disappointed if it weren't. Anyone who comes back is already being arrested, on suspicion of participating in a terrorist organisation. I agree with the CDA that then... well, "too often" you cannot say, because without proof you cannot say that someone is guilty of a terrorist offence and must be released. There's a potential risk in that. I have said before that it is possible to use a measure if you can make it clear that someone is a danger, as we do with TBs. Whether it's a mental disorder - maybe it is; I don't know whether it's a psychological disorder or not: a danger is a danger. So I would like to look along, but do name a very thick bottom line: I don't want a Guantánomo Bay in the Netherlands. The moment you don't have anything, you just can't hold someone. So no administrative detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	I hear the Labour Party saying that it assumes that everyone who returns will be detained. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I'm actually hearing that we should be looking at a way to do that. For a Guantánomo Bay, so in the next seven, eight years no judge will look at it, I would never be either. No, at some point, a judge has to look at it and see a base to hold someone. But I do hear that the Labour Party thinks that they should all be locked up, to see from there what we should do with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	I repeat: I assume that anyone who comes back is suspected of participating in a terrorist organisation. This opens up the possibility of remand. I'm assuming this is just being properly investigated, with remand. If it isn't, I'd love to hear it from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of the European Parliament for the questions and the comments that have been made. I begin with the observation that the threat is currently being assessed as substantial in the Netherlands. This means that the government takes into account the possibility of an attack, that we do everything we can to prevent it, but we also realise that we cannot guarantee full security. First of all, I will give you a number of figures on travellers and the way in which they are dealt with. That's what MPs asked for. Then I will answer the individual questions of the members of the Chamber. At the moment, it is taken into account that about 230 people have travelled from the Netherlands to Syria. Of these, approximately 150 people remain in Syria. Around 40 people returned to the Netherlands and around 42 died there. In the past year, only a few people have returned from Syria. That means we have two kinds of returners. This has been requested, including the comments made by NCTV. The first group of returners concerns people who have been in Syria for a relatively short period of time, and sometimes in Iraq, and who have returned from there quite quickly. These people are all well-reviewed. They have been identified as having a low risk. This does not mean that some cannot radicalise afterwards. That's technically possible. If that is the case, of course it will be looked at. The government is more concerned about the group that is now returning, which is, therefore, very sparing. That is also the point made by the NCTV. These are people who have stayed much longer in Syria or Iraq. They have followed training there, they have gained knowledge and skills about handling weapons and explosives and they will in many cases have been further radicalised there. This means that people who return now can be more at risk to our society. That is why these people are being looked at very thoroughly. I'll be right back to the flowchart that applies to them. This is the explanation of the different ways in which it is looked at. The progress of the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme has been requested. We had extensive consultations on this subject on 9 December in general. In the meantime, there is a second general discussion on the subject on 18 February. Then Mr Asscher and I will go through the whole list of 38 measures with the Chamber to inform the Chamber in detail. Then I come to the current approach. At my request, some 220 passports have been issued for revocation since December 2013. Since December 2013, under the terrorist sanctions regime, 29 persons have been added to the national terrorism list, which means that their assets, income and business are frozen. Of well-known travellers who received a social benefit, the benefit has been suspended. A total of around 95 social benefits have been discontinued since September 2013. The study funding of all expatriated jihad fighters is or will be discontinued. At the Children's Protection Council, 58 unique jihad-related children's cases have now been investigated. These were 37 family children and 21 individual, minor potential travellers. In the Netherlands, there are currently over 80 jihad-related criminal violence investigations involving approximately 110 persons. Five people have now been convicted of participating in the armed struggle in the jihadist war zone. There are three actual returners among them. Two are still in battle; they have been convicted in absentia. In addition, one returner has been convicted of other terrorist offences and another returner is still being prosecuted at the moment. There are currently 16 persons in detention in the so-called terrorism department. So much for my comments on the extravagants. Like Mrs Tellegen, I recall that the government has taken a series of measures to prevent people from travelling. This is mainly based on the local approach, in which case consultations with the municipalities identify people who are concerned. Active policies are then pursued to prevent exit. Where necessary and possible, the passport shall be revoked. Once the relevant law has been accepted by both chambers, the identity card may also be revoked. I'll be on the returners. As soon as someone leaves and is a well-known traveler, we know that he has left. That means an intelligence investigation and a police investigation are being conducted. We're looking into the informal network. For example, the family should be considered. In addition, a passport measure is taken to ensure that the person concerned cannot return. The person will be placed on the so-called national list of persons. International alert will take place in the Schengen Information System. A criminal investigation will be initiated, with possible default conviction possible. Financial measures will be taken, such as a freezing measure and the cessation of the benefit. I just mentioned the figures. The person concerned will be issued by the municipality from the Basic Registration Persons. Then it must be avoided that someone can return. That means there's a possibility of declaring someone an undesirable stranger. Once the bill has been passed, the Dutch citizenship can also be withdrawn if the person concerned has a dual nationality. It is well known that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under international conventions is impossible if the person concerned has only one nationality. The third step is the detection of possible return. Of course, this will be based on an intelligence investigation, information exchange between the intelligence and security services, the postal network of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an international alert, if any, and enforcement of the entry ban if foreign law applies. Again, the informal network is used. If the person then arrives in the Netherlands, he is arrested for questioning. He'll be prosecuted if there's any way to do that. I would say to Mr Recourt that, of course, provisional detention is possible. Furthermore, a risk assessment or threat assessment will be made of the person concerned. The personal approach that is then applied consists of a whole series of measures: criminal prosecution, detention in the terrorism department, if that is the case, and probation surveillance after the conviction. That is a point that Mr Recourt rightly pointed out, because you must then guide someone very well to ensure that he returns to society deradicalised. One important point is that deradicalisation is possible in the context of conditional release. This has provided a basis for the deradicalisation of someone as well. In the debate on the appalling attacks in Paris, we have already exchanged views that it is not 100% guaranteed that deradicalisation will work, but at least you can have someone follow that path with a stick behind the door. Child protection measures may be taken if they apply, such as under surveillance. There may also be a forensic ggz trajectory. In addition, compulsory treatment is also an option. Recently, the exit path is active. In doing so, the person concerned is accompanied very individually to ensure that he can step out of those radicalising groups. For several months now, family support has also been provided, both before and after the return. It's mostly for the exit. Families who need it will be helped locally, but with the support of my department, to support the person concerned who is radicalising in a good way. Of course, there can also be the need for work, daily spending or training. The use of the social environment is ensured and there may be a reporting obligation, a ban on territory, a ban on contact or an exit ban. All this can be done on the basis of legislation currently under discussion. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked if there was a debate in the Chamber as to whether you could put these returners away. The government's expectation is that, on the basis of the file investigation and on the basis of the fact that someone has been involved in the fight in Syria or Iraq for a long time, there will in very many cases be sufficient grounds to arrest not only the person concerned for questioning but also to initiate a criminal investigation. If so, of course, provisional custody is possible. If that is not the case, we in the Netherlands currently have no basis for taking other measures. In the action programme, I announced that I was expanding the existing instruments to tackle returners. We have also provided for the legislative proposal to take temporary measures such as a notification obligation or a ban on contact. That proposal is now in the Chamber. Mr Bontes asked about the possibility of administrative detention. In a way, it was also mentioned by Mrs Van Toorenburg. This is not possible in the Netherlands and it is very doubtful whether it would not be in conflict with the ECHR. Nevertheless, in the debate on Paris, I promised Mr Klaver and Mr Samsom of the PvdA Group that Mr Zijlstra of the VVD would also consider whether it would be possible, for example, to add a form of control to the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism. That investigation is currently under way. I will inform the Chamber in more detail in a moment, but in a more general sense: it is being considered whether it can be done. Incarceration of people without an indication will not be possible under the ECHR. You cannot lock people in the Netherlands if there is no indication of danger or otherwise. If there is such an indication, I assume that it will in many cases be there for the returnee....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	There are returners who are not locked up. They run around freely and then administrative detention is a fine extra measure. I do not think that this is at all contrary to European human rights, because at least the United Kingdom, America and Australia know it. Then why shouldn't we? England, Great Britain, is a European country, and that is where that treaty should apply. I don't think it's quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	The question before us is whether we in the Netherlands are able to lock people up without indicating that someone has committed a criminal offence or is a danger to society. That's the point. In the latter case, for example, a compulsory inclusion may apply for the ggz. In the debate following the attacks in Paris, I promised that we would see whether we could meet this need of the Chamber within the framework of the ECHR. We will probably not be able to go to jail, but we will be able to get a different form of control. There will probably be people we are concerned about, but we do not have any indications of criminal prosecution. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	It is precisely those cases that are at stake. You don't have enough material to take someone into custody right now. So you can take that measure and at least hold someone for the time being. I would add something that might make the Minister's response a little more positive. In our proposal and in our motions, we have called for the matter to be examined by the administrative judge after six months. Maybe this will make it more attractive for the minister. I'd like to get his reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	I will certainly include that suggestion in the government's consideration. However, if there really is no indication that anyone is a danger to society other than the simple fact that he is returning from Syria or Iraq, I assume that in many cases there will be an indication, and if we do not find such an indication even after further investigation and with the file-building, we have no possibility of going to prison under the ECHR. This is a very serious measure, and this really requires an indication of the danger of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	I do welcome the Minister's answer. I think it is a thoughtful and sensible position. I do have a single question, or perhaps even two questions; it turns out so. The Minister says that in cases where there are indeed signs that someone is a danger to his environment, such cases will undoubtedly be taken, and that someone will be locked up. Who's gonna judge that? Who's gonna test? Who's gonna watch? Is that the police or are they other people in the vicinity of someone like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	Based on the flowchart I just proposed, the system is as follows. If it's okay, there's already a file ready the moment someone returns. All known travellers are made up of a file led by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. There's all the information that's needed to be able to take action when someone comes back. Then it's up to the state's attorney's office. The police will apprehend the person concerned and the Public Prosecutor will decide on criminal prosecution. Then there is also the question of remand. If it is right, then there is already a file that can be used on the return of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	I understand. I've talked to cops about this before. We were, of course, talking about the returners at a somewhat earlier stage, those of whom, according to the NCTV, were less threatening. The police told me at the time: we just talk to someone like that, and then we try to pick up the signals. I assume you're not just basing yourself on a file, but you're talking to someone, and if you need it, and if it's possible under the applicable rules, you're also letting someone from mental health take a look at it or request a closer examination. Is this how I'm supposed to imagine it? Does it happen by the police and if necessary by a psychologist or someone who, for example, works at the Pieter Baan Centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	At least three steps take place on arrival in the Netherlands. It starts on arrest for interrogation. All returners are apprehended for interrogation by the national police. They are therefore being questioned. On that basis and on the basis of the file already in place, it is assessed whether criminal prosecution is necessary. That judgment lies with the District Attorney's Office. If so, provisional detention may be applied. If not, a risk and so-called threat assessment will still be carried out. It is carried out by the AIVD and the police together to see what steps can be taken if there is no possibility of arrest and prosecution. Then you'll get the whole series I just proposed. In addition, the municipal council and the municipal case-consultation are the most important steps forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	If you really do an analysis of the group that returns, you can see that the people involved are hardened and dangerous. I continue to find it unsatisfactory that it is then examined individually whether pre-trial detention is being applied, which may or may not happen. We see that too many people are not being detained and are not being monitored sufficiently. Why, for example, does the Minister not want to look at an independent ground for pre-trial detention when someone returns? Or can he see in another creative way whether, at least for a limited period of time, he would like to be able to arrange for someone to be detained with judicial review? After all, you can see what's going on. With one conversation, you don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	That's exactly what I'm saying. I'm watching that. I will try to make it still applicable within the framework of the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. I shall probably be able to come to a letter of amendment once I have completed that investigation. However, I cannot say exactly what it looks like at the moment, because I am looking at it very closely, as well as at the ECHR. I assume that the CDA has not yet forgotten the ECHR on this point. It may sound like this once in a while, but I didn't think the CDA had taken that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	No, of course we never forgot. But I haven't forgotten that the danger to other people has to be weighed. As soon as this cabinet has to write a note on the report, we notice that it takes many months for us to get it. So now that the Minister says that he is doing research, that there is now a legislative proposal and that there will be a letter of amendment, I fear that we will not have that measure in 2017. That is why I am asking for it so urgently today; it is simply taking too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	I really must contradict that, because the legislative proposals we are talking about are all on schedule. Within a few days of the Council of State's opinion, we submitted them to the Chamber. I do not think it has happened before that it happened so quickly: the proposal was announced in a debate, it was still in the Council of Ministers on the same Friday and the following week it was submitted to the Chamber. Those are the facts. Nor can I wait very long with the letter of amendment, because the bill is under discussion here, so it will have to be done before the votes. That is why we are doing this investigation as a matter of urgency. However, we do do so in accordance with the requirements that we impose in our own state of law, as well as the requirements that we impose under our constitution and the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	Of course, it must be possible to fit the law properly, but the SGP Group has already said that it is concerned when there will soon be problems of proof with regard to clearly radical figures who have gone to Syria and claim that they have only learned to cook different varieties of macaroni there. Then you can have an evidence problem, but you can also feel on your clogs that something went wrong. Hence my question as to whether the Minister would also like to look at criminal law in the context of this more administrative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	That's exactly what it is. We're looking into whether it's possible to take action for the hole that's there and what we care about. I am referring to the situation in which nothing can be done criminally because there is simply no legal and convincing evidence or criminal reason for prosecution and therefore no possibility for remand, but we still want to be able to do something. We're looking at this right now. I hope to be able to introduce a letter of amendment to the legal process. We're investigating that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	But then what the Minister is saying now is more administrative in nature. Do I understand correctly that other countries with the same international frameworks have indeed come up with independent criminal offences, so a more criminal framework for travellers to Syria? I believe that this has also been announced in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	We have had very extensive research done by the WODC, specifically on the question, which also came from the VVD group, whether it is possible to criminalize trips to an area. The answer to this was that there are no possibilities in this respect; I have explained this extensively in general consultation. We have therefore left this behind, because there is no point in putting a lot of energy in it if we know from research that it is unopposed. That is why we are looking at this alternative. I hope to be able to do this alternative within the framework of the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. Then the judicial review will also be possible, but it will be possible to consider from the point of view how we can ensure that we can keep an eye on someone if we are very concerned. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Bontes asked whether I could denaturalise returners. Yeah, we'll do that if we can. There is a bill in your Chamber concerning the taking away of Dutch citizenship without the intervention of the judge. In the meantime, the bill contained in the action programme has been adopted which makes it possible to deprive the Netherlands of its citizenship after a criminal conviction. In your Chamber there is another bill that allows the Minister of Security and Justice to take away Dutch citizenship without the intervention of the judge. We will discuss this in greater detail shortly. I say to Mr Bontes what I said to Mr Van der Staaij: it is not possible to take away Dutch citizenship if it means that someone becomes stateless. I have already spoken about the exit facility and deradicalisation that Mrs Swinkels asked about. This is an important part of the approach to jihadism. The exit facility focuses on radicalised jihadists who are open to reintegration into society outside their jihadist network. These are individuals who are active in the jihadist movement but have no plans to travel, individuals who intend to travel but who have been stopped, individuals who have returned from a battlefield but in whom there was insufficient opportunity or reason to prosecute them, or suspects or convicted persons who reside in the terrorist department of a prison. Then such a person falls into the category referred to by Mr Recourt. The exit facility is therefore there for returners, but also for those who are radicalising. At the start of the journey, an agreement is signed which contains agreements to which a person has to comply. If there is a threat, the services will be contacted directly. In the meantime, of course, the services continue to do their job, including with regard to someone who is included in such a process. In response to Mrs Tellegen, I would point out that the administrative measures we will shortly be discussing in your Chamber will also offer opportunities in a number of areas similar to the exit ban that the VVD Group would like. They include, for example, a notification obligation if you have a notification obligation, you cannot leave..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is not a criminalisation of exit, but we are therefore proposing an exit ban on the basis of which there are all kinds of possibilities. The legislative proposals are on track. I think it is important to say that, because there can be no doubt about that. The legislative proposal Amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap to extend the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of terrorist offences is currently in the Upper House. The treatment is scheduled for 16 February. In the Lower House, the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst submitted the legislative proposal Amendment of the Law special measures metropolitan problems related to the selective housing allocation to reduce nuisance and criminal behaviour. That report was received by the Chamber on 10 November 2015 and can therefore be taken further into parliamentary consideration. The third proposal is the amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap proposal in connection with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security, which I was referring to just when I replied to Mr Bontes. The bill and the further report were submitted to the House of Representatives on 7 December. I have received the report from your Chamber. I will submit the answer to that as soon as possible, and I will also say to Mr Van der Staaij. The bill Temporary Act on administrative measures to combat terrorism was submitted on the same December 7th. Your Chamber's report is due at the end of January. I will also respond to this as soon as possible, so that we can have the debate on this as soon as possible. The legislative proposal to amend the Passport Act was also submitted on 7 December. Your Chamber's report is due this week. The Computer Crime III Bill, which provides for a number of measures to improve the fight against computer crime, also includes the procedure for the removal of criminal statements from the Internet by providers of telecommunications services. So that can also play a role in jihadist messages on the Internet. That bill and the further report were submitted to your Chamber on 21 December. We would like to await your Chamber's response to that point. Rules on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, the Act on Explosives, was submitted on 22 September 2015. Your Chamber's report was received on 9 November. I will send the Chamber the answer to that as soon as possible. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is the first signatory of the latest bill, the Bill of Termination of Employment Benefits. The consultation period has not yet ended, but once it has been, the Minister for Social Affairs will present the proposal to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	On Tuesday, when I called the Minister's unsavory personal assistant saying I'd lost my touch, I got this whole list in a great e-mail. I'm glad the Minister is reading that again today. There is another thing in it, namely the report of the Rotterdam Act. That was received by the cabinet on 10 November and it is there on the desk. I ask the Minister to make sure that there is a note on the report, because it is not in the Chamber. Just a correction: it's on the desk of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	In my opinion, the Rotterdam Act belongs to the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst; it doesn't matter anyway. I will convey Mrs Van Toorenburg's feelings to the colleague. Is it conceivable, possible or already happening, that people with a terrorist intention will also be present in the asylum stream, and if so, what measures have already been taken? Several media reports about the abuse of the alien chain have been reported during the past period. Although definition is not yet established in the Netherlands, an investigation is under way, which I will not go into. The responsible services and organisations in the Netherlands and in Europe certainly do not close their eyes to this possibility, not even as a result of the attacks in Paris and certainly not as a result of the last attack, where it seems that the person concerned came from an asylum seekers' centre in Germany, as one of the members has already pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	If the government and the services do not close their eyes, what would be the only way to guarantee that the Netherlands will not abuse the flow of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	Given existing legislation and regulations and the humanitarian problem, I think we should do one thing. We need to ensure that screening is as good as possible, so that the chances of such a person being in that asylum stream are as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	The Minister therefore refuses to promise the Netherlands, the Dutch viewer, a number of people who are watching now, that he will close the borders in order to reduce the chance to almost zero, outside of the people we have of course already admitted and who are very difficult to get away in the first eight months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	As has been shared several times with the PVV Group and with Mr Bontes of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group, we know that closing the Dutch borders, as Mr De Graaf means, will not have the effect he expects. This debate is not about the refugee steam. It's about the risk, but it's not about the flow as such. At the same time, a whole series of measures are being taken to manage this flow of refugees. Mr De Graaf knows that the government is making every effort to do so. In the most recent Threat Picture Terrorism The Netherlands has indicated that it is possible for jihadists to travel in the refugee stream and thus that the flow of refugees and individuals can pose a security risk. The responsible services and organisations in the Netherlands already take this opportunity into account. We are therefore alert to signals about the misuse of asylum seekers' procedures by ISIS or other terrorist organisations. EU-wide efforts are also being made to improve systematic registration. I say in the direction of those Members who have said that this is certainly not yet in order in all countries. On the contrary, we in the Netherlands have much better things in order in this respect, as we are also expected to do. I'm going to the screening, because it's important that I respond to that. So what exactly do we do? Both the police and the IND are alert to aspects that may affect national security during the process of identification and registration and during the further registration process. The screening process is as follows: As soon as foreigners report for the asylum procedure, the police will immediately start the identification and registration process. During this process, the identity is established on the basis of documents, biometrics and a first call and, if necessary, telephones are read out. A check will also be carried out in the so-called Eurodac system and Havank, the criminal justice database. Once the identification and registration process is completed, the procedure can start at the IND. At the IND the foreigners fill out a registration form and they also get a registration hearing. Then start the login process. In the login process, the IND will screen on the basis of information from the police identification and registration process, the registration form and the registration hearing if there are signs of identity fraud, national security, human trafficking and trafficking in human beings and other criminal offences. As far as national security is concerned, it is a question of identifying signals that may indicate jihadism or radicalisation or things that could otherwise threaten national security. These signals may have been received during the contact moments that the stranger has with the police, with the Royal Marechaussee, with the COA and with the IND. If the AIVD or the STUDY issues a notice of office which concludes that a person is a danger to national security, the IND may take measures under foreign law. Signals can, of course, also be received later in the process by fellow residents of reception sites, and can then be passed on to the intelligence and security services. The staff in the alien chain will be always alert to this. The screening shall be a permanent part of the registration process and shall take place immediately upon submission of the application. There is therefore no delay of months, as Mrs Swinkels meant. Given the concern we have, there has been no delay with the police since November 2015 in the identification and registration process. It's just being screened at the IND. There is still a very limited delay, which will be resolved in March 2016. At least that's the goal. Of course, priority is given to matters with an increased risk. There is no delay on that point. I've taken care of the document check. Then I come to Mrs Swinkels' question about how I feel about the arrest of an asylum seeker in Zaandam in connection with possible ties with ISIS. I do not comment on specific cases, as Mrs Swinkels knows. The services are alert. As I have already said, all returners are detained upon return. There is a concern, Mr De Graaf, about the risk of using false documents. All documents found shall be taken for further examination. All identity documents are being investigated by the police. These are also always handed over to the Royal Marechaussee for further investigation. In addition, the Marechaussee is present earlier in the process, in the identification process, in order to be able to perform this task at an early stage. Source documents and other original asylum-related documents shall be taken and transferred to the IND for the purpose of the asylum procedure. These documents shall be examined and verified by the IND for authenticity. This is how the documents handed over to asylum seekers, refugees are handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm just making up my quota of interruptions for this period. Those official documents are for sale in Syria, even with the Prime Minister's name on them. They're totally official, so there's a big leak. You can take those things. The Minister needs a huge stream of words to explain what is going well, but then sloppy is lurking. That sloppyness lies precisely in those documents, which are absolutely real, come from Syria and are bought there for a few tens. It's just gonna get these people in here as a return party or as a new terrorist. They can just come in here. So it's not waterproof. Can the Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	I can confirm to Mr De Graaf that there has been no system of whatever, which was waterproof. We just need to realize that. I'm very realistic about that. We're doing everything we can, including false documents. We know that's what's going on. That's what's being looked at. A passport that is very new will immediately attract the attention of the services. Then we look further at biometrics and fingerprints, at all aspects that can be involved. Eavesdropping someone's story and emptying the phone is all possible on the basis of existing laws and regulations. We all do that when there are grounds for doing so. Such a passport can be an indication that there is a reason to take a closer look at it. I fully agree with Mr De Graaf. If he asks me if I guarantee no one can ever come in, my answer is no. I can't guarantee that, however much I wish I could.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	I thank the Minister for the answer. He's talking about reality. The only way to be realistic is to close the borders. But the Minister doesn't want to do that. Of course, the Minister also sees that Schengen is imploded, but he does not want to do so. The only way to further protect the Netherlands is to close the borders. I'm saying it now for perhaps the hundredth time here in the Chamber. After all, France has all these possibilities and yet what happened in Paris happened. If the minister continues to hide behind his word stream and does not act realistically, he will create his own Bataclan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	I disagree with Mr De Graaf. However, I can see that we cannot give a 100% security guarantee, however much the government would like to. Despite everything we do, we can't guarantee that. I have just discussed the issue of borders with Mr De Graaf. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether it is true that the screening has been improved by the police. I've just indicated that it is. The delay with the police has also been completely eliminated. I have just said that there is still a small backlog with the IND. It will be eliminated in the coming weeks, by March at the latest. Mrs Swinkels asked about strengthening controls at the external borders. At EU level, efforts are being made to improve and systematically register and identify refugees, including the necessary security controls. This is done in particular through the establishment of so-called hotspots in Italy and Greece and processing centres in other Member States at the external border with a high inflow. Attention is also paid to the alerting of high-risk persons. These initiatives have already been launched and will be further pursued during the Dutch EU Presidency. I know that Secretary of State Dijkhoff has discussed this with his fellow ministers in Amsterdam over the last few days. The aim is to promote the detection of jihadists with an EU passport. Mr Recourt asked how to prevent recruitment around the flow of refugees. The official bodies receiving asylum seekers are alert to the possibility of imposing conditions on the assistance provided or accepting assistance from a given angle under duress. In order to update, strengthen and ensure awareness and knowledge of this matter, customised training courses are offered to employees of the official bodies. In addition, attention is paid to the risk of recruitment by jihadists in asylum seekers' centres. There is also an attempt to prevent frustrations and other feelings, as they can be a basis for admissibility to that message. Work is under way to provide assistance to municipalities in order to avoid unrest in this area. So there's a lot of attention to it. Nevertheless, this remains, of course, a point of attention. Ms Gesthuizen asked what the impact of the possible bombing in Syria on radicalisation in the Netherlands was. I cannot anticipate any decision by the cabinet to become militaryly active in Syria. I can say that the Dutch people reject ISIS by a large majority. This also applies to Dutch people with an Islamic faith, for example, recent research by the SCP has shown. If that decision were to be taken, we will, of course, continue to inform the Chamber about our assessments. Mrs Gesthuizen also asked about the salafism. In the last few months, a total of nine motions have been passed by your Chamber which see salafism. We are now working on the development of the new version of the Salafism letter. It will also include the motions that Mrs Gesthuizen referred to. This letter is scheduled for February.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	I'm just dubbing, because I know the minister isn't ready. I hope he will come back to my question as to how many potential terrorists have been picked out of the refugee stream at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	I don't know by heart. I think we've got... I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	Is this something for the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	I will return to it in the second term. In any case, I know that at the moment there is one case against someone who was said to be involved in terrorist activities. In the second term, I will see if there is more information on this than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	Well, I guess I'm just gonna have to make that interruption. If I understand correctly, there is one of the refugees who have ever entered the Netherlands, so now there is one person who is being investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	I don't know if Mrs. Gesthuizen understands that. That is what I am going to ask in the second term. However, that is at least a matter of which I know. We have also had parliamentary questions about this. We have answered those questions and referred to the ongoing investigation. I would also like to say to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Recourt that it is not intended for people with an extremist Islamic view to recruit at COA locations. The COA also doesn't allow anyone in locations. There is a visitor scheme and a visitor administration. All the volunteers who work there, we've screened in advance. This does not guarantee that radicalisation can never take place, but there is real alertness in this area because that risk is recognised. Mr Öztürk spoke about unfair imagery. He asked if there would be a more active countersound. In the context of counter-noise, the cabinet focuses both on undermining jihadistic messages and on strengthening the resilience of young people. Internationally, we are also active to produce a counter-noise. Since early 2015, the EU has been funding a team of internet and communication experts supporting Member States in developing alternative messages in response to jihadist propaganda. The Netherlands clearly plays a role in this. We have an active policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	By countersound, I also mean a countersound to right-wing radicals. I heard that until now one such person has entered between all those asylum seekers and around them a picture of fear is created. I also ask the Cabinet to respond to this. It is not only young people who need to be well informed that they are right to do so, but that they also need to be combated. Human Rights Watch literally says that governments and politics are increasingly acting out of fear and that human rights violations are taking place in Europe. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	I find it difficult to go into that in detail. We have found in our own country that there is such a risk. We have also seen this in indications from Germany and France in the attacks there. So we have to be realistic about that risk. That is why we are doing everything we can to help people who are taking advantage of this flow of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	I have also talked about right-wing radicals who are using more and more violence, who say that opponents of their demonstrations can be raped, who invade city councils, who attack police officers and scare those innocent citizens. What message does the minister have to them? What training courses, courses, what actions does the Minister take to achieve a balance? If we look at the actual facts, we can see that only one asylum seeker is suspect at the moment. I would like the cabinet to take a concrete approach to the media on this issue so that there is a balance in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	I have just made a comment about one asylum seeker, but there are other concerns about what is happening in and around reception centres. Anyone can see that. That's what the Secretary of State reports on. There are other concerns in that regard. I will come back to the question of people in the refugee stream who are suspected of a terrorist conviction. But if Mr Öztürk asks me what I think of radicals of the law, then the government simply says: whether you are left-radical or right-radical or are violating the law for religious reasons, it does not matter to the government; everyone is right before the law; you are simply arrested, arrested and prosecuted. And if there's any indication, the judge will proceed to trial. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	This will be your second interruption, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	If I were to ask the Minister where his attention lies, where he puts his energy, where he uses his officials and resources, is that only aimed at the asylum seekers and the returners? Or does he also see the tendency that we get a lot of cases of violence from extreme right-wing and right-wing radicals if we are not careful? If the minister could put it as a percentage, how much percent would go where?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	I can't say. It is very simple: the Dutch government, the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office use all their energy for people who break the law. It doesn't matter what their thinking is behind it, what conviction they have, whether they're left or right; if people break the law, they can count on them being arrested and prosecuted. That's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	You have priorities in the justice system and also in the police department. Are you gonna take a theft or are you gonna take a rapist? I'm talking about priorities. At the moment, there is a social debate. The media exaggerate, MPs fall for that and push the ministry into a certain corner. Some ministers admit, some ministers stand still, some ministers maintain the rule of law. That is why I ask: to what extent is that balanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	The rule of law only says one thing and gives me one task. I share that assignment with the State's Attorney's Office and the National Police. If people break the law, for whatever reason, there will be prosecution, detection and, wherever possible, trial. There is no difference between thought formations or whatever: everyone is equal in that respect before the law and also for the national police. I have one question left. That is the question raised by a number of people about Mr Jitse A. There is currently a criminal investigation by the Public Prosecutor's Office and it is not appropriate for me as a minister to respond to this matter in substance. We wait for that point just calm down the investigation. That must be done very carefully by the Public Prosecutor and I will, of course, inform the Chamber about it once the investigation has been completed, in so far as the Public Prosecutor does not do so himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	Speaking of Jitse A, it seems like we're talking about a suspect while we're talking about a hero. Let's focus on that. Mr. Akse has become a kind of target for jihadists and opponents because of the unwise action of the prosecution, while he has fought for the good cause in Syria, against the enemy, against the beasts of IS. What is the Minister going to do to protect Mr Akse, because it is unthinkable that he is in danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	I would be inclined to respond to that in substance, but I do not. I stand by my answer that this is an ongoing criminal investigation and that I do not make any further substantive statements on this matter. When Mr Bontes asks about security, Mr Bontes knows that I do not make any announcements about it either. I never make any announcements about the system... guarding and securing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	Finally, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	Then I have a final request to the Minister: can the Minister, who is apparently still in the process of investigating, give the prosecutor the clue to stop this ridiculous investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	The Minister can do that, but he will not, because there is no reason to do so at the moment. The state's attorney's office is conducting a criminal investigation, and we will await the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr. Chairman. I will say this on the basis of the political responsibility for the General Intelligence and Security Service, the AIVD. There is often talk of "services," but the AIVD still has a special place in the order because it can use special powers, even if there is no suspect or criminal offence in advance, for the sake of national security. The product of the AIVD is information. That information can be delivered to all those who can work with it. For example, intelligence or official messages to the Public Prosecutor for criminal investigations, NCTV for the withdrawal of passports, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the freezing of funds, the Children's Protection Council, the Child Abuse hotline, or the local administration for administrative measures. So the product is always information, and all questions about actions and actions automatically relate to those who are politically responsible for what could then happen to that information. The information obtained, and certainly the way in which that information was obtained, is generally not spoken in public other than by means of a public publication. Two weeks ago, for example, a publication was published about life in the caliphate. However, we do not answer questions about numbers and levels of knowledge in public. This does not mean that we do not fully share this with the Chamber, but we do so in the confidentiality of the CIVD. That's where all the information can be shared. The AIVD may be involved in various ways in the issues we are discussing tonight. It may be that the IND says on the basis of the information obtained by the IND: about this person we would like to obtain some more information from the AIVD. As a by-product of an action already deployed by the AIVD, there may be information about a person who is either in the refugee stream or in the Syrian return stream. Finally, information can be obtained from secret services abroad. In this context, it is important to note that many of the services are willing to only share that information with the secret service in the Netherlands. In this sense, the AIVD is the gateway to, for example, the D.A. or the police if it is useful to take action on the basis of information from a foreign intelligence and security service. That'll go through that trajectory. That is what I wanted to say for the purpose of positioning the service throughout this whole process. I now come to a few specific questions. I walk by them in the order in which they are set. Mr De Graaf had a question about the mayor of Katwijk, Mr Jos Wienen. I have no reason to doubt his functioning. He has indeed taken the lead on behalf of the VNG in concluding the governance agreement with the Empire. He kept all his commitments. He is also accountable in his city council. If there is any reason to do so, I do not see it at all, then it is up to the city council to have a further opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	The mayor of Katwijk himself admitted he wanted to keep things under wraps. That was in De Telegraaf on Sunday. It was only in the online edition, so maybe that makes it a little harder to approach. In fact, I also have a reaction from the PvdA, of course, the Minister speaks on behalf of the government, but it has been read by his party: directors must be honest about incidents and the crime figures in which they are processed. If there is a strong statement from the PvdA Group, how can the Minister say that there is no reason to doubt the functioning of this mayor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	Mr De Graaf gives me the very tough question if I am prepared to fire that mayor. I have said that I am not prepared to do so and that I have no reason to do so either. I read De Telegraaf, also the Sunday edition, with red ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	If the Minister has read with red ears, how can the Minister insist that there is no reason to doubt the functioning of that mayor? You can't hold on to that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	I have just outlined two ways in which I can relate to him. First of all, on behalf of the VNG, he concluded the administrative agreement with the Empire. He did an excellent job. He is also accountable to his city council for what he says. I am also not supposed to commit one-on-one to everything my political relatives in the House of Representatives have said about this. I come to questions from Mrs Tellegen, Mr De Graaf, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Gesthuizen about the capacity of the AIVD. I would also like to link the answer to the question of what we can say in public about the level of knowledge of the AIVD. I told you, I won't go into much detail on that. The AIVD investigates possible security risks for the Netherlands, also as a result of increased flows of migrants. This is done from different angles: jihadist terrorism and radicalisation, but also................................................................................................................................................. Of course, I also mention the international angle, in coordination with our international partners. I will come back to the answers to questions about international cooperation. The AIVD is doing what should reasonably be done now. As we know, extra resources were deployed in two rounds last year. The cabinet first made 25 million extra available to the AIVD, also in view of the increased threat of jihadism. A further 130 million reinforcement package went into the fight against jihadism and terrorism. Of these, 40 million have been allocated to the AIVD. The budget has thus increased considerably. It's also higher now than it's ever been in history before. In addition, as the Chamber knows, people are recruited to further strengthen the teams in this area. I have already informed the Chamber that, if the AIVD cannot do its work properly, I will put it on the table in the Trêveszaal. I'll say that again. On another occasion, the Prime Minister's Chamber has already understood that, should that situation arise, it will not be dismissed as far as he is concerned. Within the entire chain, which my colleague has already talked about extensively, the AIVD has a strong focus on the abuse of the alien chain and on persons who may pose a threat to national security. The attacks in Paris have shown that ISIS can use the flow of refugees to get attackers into Europe. Although the AIVD is investigating some reports, there is currently no evidence that the asylum chain in the Netherlands is structurally abused by terrorist organisations. That is what I wanted to say about the capacity and level of knowledge of the AIVD. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Tellegen raised the issue of whether there is a complete link in that chain between the official messages delivered by the AIVD and their use in the criminal justice chain. On previous occasions, I informed the Chamber by letter. The bottomline is, of course, this has been done in conjunction with colleagues from V and J, that we do not see any reason to revise the system. If two parties seem to have additional questions on this matter, I would like to avoid having an in-depth debate on the precise coordination. I must say that I am sending a letter to the Chamber together with my colleague from V and J explaining why we believe that connection is sufficient. After that, it can always be seen whether it gives rise to further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	I think that's a good suggestion. Can the Minister respond to an interview that was held two weeks ago in the NRC with the jihad judge Jan van der Groen, as he is told? The judge is asked exactly a question on this subject: the use of AIVD information in criminal matters against jihadists. He's making a plea for the French model. In France, they work with a committee, which decides whether the judge and the lawyers can have access to the underlying information. He claims that he needs it, because it frustrates him that he is not getting any more returning Syrians under lock and key. Will the Minister take this with him in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	That's what I'm telling you. The position of the cabinet, the colleague of V and J also reports that it is not able to use the information of the AIVD as a limiting factor in the criminal justice process. Official messages can indeed be used in the search. They shall contain details of the person or organisation to which the message relates and which relate to the suspected offence identified. How the AIVD gets that information, it's a secret. The National Prosecutor of the State of the Interior has two of them in the context of the AIVD, which has access to the underlying documents of the post. This can guarantee a justified investigation. The D.A.'s office begins an own investigation to see if anyone can be prosecuted. This notice always comes as an open procedural document in the criminal record. In our opinion, that is a final step. I don't respond to every interview, but now that I've been asked to do so, I promise I'll take this into account in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	What is at stake here is that it cannot be used as evidence in a conviction, because it cannot be tested. If you organise the review through, for example, a committee, a judge can finally make use of it. This could make it easier for people to be convicted of staying in Syria and participating in terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	I understand the question very well. Once again, our position is that we believe that the ease of condemnation, if you could speak of it, is not limited by the system as we now have. I'm a little hesitant to switch to other systems in the middle of the game. I am not saying that the French system is not valid, but I will return to this in a letter with my colleague from V and J within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u139	However, since there have been some strong claims in this debate about the flow of asylum seekers, I would like to touch on the points raised by the NCTV. Is it true that the national coordinator wanted to say that we cannot rule it out and so there is a chance that under the cover of refugee someone will use that route to enter the Netherlands? Is that what we intended to say or did we want to send out a clear signal, which says: beware, because we really have suspicions that there are also jihadist terrorists under that stream of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u140	Let me say first of all that questions relating to the indication of what the NCTV intended to say are strictly a question to my colleague from V and J. In this case, I am free to say that the answer is yes. By saying that it cannot be excluded, he did not intend to say anything other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u141	I have one more question about the letter that's going to be written. I understand the wish of CDA and VVD, but I am a little cautious about it, because the powers of the service are different from those of the police and the judiciary. Does the Minister intend to include this in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u142	I'm sure I'll admit it. Once again, I did not want to open this whole discussion here at the moment, but the AIVD can have broader powers because it is purely at the service of national security and therefore there is no need to worry that anything that is brought up by the AIVD can also be used in criminal proceedings. So if the AIVD makes a legitimate tap somewhere in the context of national security and finds out that someone is in the process of breaking and entering, then that information is not shared with the D.A. and not used for criminal proceedings, because it is not legally obtained in the context in which those special means were used. So keeping that divorce has great value, too. It contributes to national security in the eyes of the cabinet. But we will compare the French and the Dutch orders in the letter we will soon come with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u143	I have just asked your colleague if he knows how many IS fighters are actually in the asylum stream. I have not yet received an answer to that. That is why I am now addressing you with the question of whether the AIVD, with all the broad powers of investigation it has, has any idea of that possibility and of the number of IS fighters in the refugee stream.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u144	Mrs Swinkels' question inspired me to make the general introduction I just gave. In doing so, I implicitly gave the answer that we share nothing more than what I have just said about the information position of the AIVD in public. The same applies to the numbers and the nature of the knowledge about those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u145	Can the Minister confirm that the AIVD has a clear and clear picture of possible IS fighters in the refugee stream?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u146	That is, strictly speaking, also a question of the level of knowledge. I can say that we naturally share the knowledge we have with the NCTV. As I said, when it comes to action, another chain partner will soon be responsible. The NCTV is also responsible for communicating to the public, and in public to the House of Representatives, about what is known about the foreign flow at that time. A few questions remain, including the question of international cooperation by the AIVD. There is more exchange of information than ever at international and European level. The security services are also very willing to exchange data, particularly on this subject. The threat is penetrating and international, and that must of course be the intelligence work. As the Chamber may know, the AIVD is currently Chairman of the Counter Terrorism Group, which includes the security services of all EU Member States, as well as those of Switzerland and Norway. In this multilateral cooperation, all members shall list persons who may be associated with terrorism. That list may be consulted by the other members. In addition, on the initiative of the AIVD a few years ago, a leading group was set up within the CTG, in which the confidence is even greater and the cooperation is even more intense and thus the operational information can be exchanged even faster. The AIVD has decided to work as chairman of the Counter Terrorism Group in the coming six months to further step up this cooperation. An important step is, for example, the creation of a platform for faster and better sharing of information. This should facilitate the exchange of operational information. It focuses in particular on terrorist fighters. The AIVD also cooperates with other relevant services outside Europe. I will leave it at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u147	Have you finished answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u148	Almost, but as far as international cooperation is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u149	Then I suggest you answer all the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yes. I was almost done, because I had one remaining question about the withdrawal of voting rights from the SGP. In any case, this can only be done by judicial decision and in the event of an irrevocable conviction for more than a year, but I have checked it out. My colleague, Mr Van der Steur, has also promised on my behalf that I would respond to the suggestion made by the SGP on this point. I owe the Chamber that response and I will ensure that it is with the Chamber within a few weeks. So I'll come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u151	The last interruption, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u152	There is also a debate on Twitter, and one of the Twitterers is right to say to me that I have to ask the question to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations in the second term, because unfortunately the Minister of Security and Justice did not want to give those answers and did not do so. Does the government, as guardian of the rule of law, pay equal attention to radicalisation, both left-wing radicalisation and right-wing radicalisation? Does the government set up the resources it has appointed all evening and which it makes available to all those people who threaten the municipal councils, the mayors and our rule of law? How much resources and attention does the government pay to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u153	I would appreciate it if we were to debate without tweeting at the same time, but I think that is a difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u154	Another aspect that has been raised is that the division of tasks within the cabinet is not such that I am window B for those questions that my colleague from V and J has not answered. However, I take it as a question of priority within the AIVD. We are making very limited communications about this in general terms. The basis of all that the government is doing is, of course, the rule of law which implies that there is only one test. That is what Mr V and Mr J said about detection, and so is national security. That is the urgency of doing so. In addition, Lady Justitia indeed has a blindfold for it. The intelligence and security services also keep an eye on all aspects of national security. For that, it doesn't matter where a possible threat comes from. I think that is the answer to the question that has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u155	And what does Twitter say, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u156	Twitter is a place where people react. I am also trying to bring that into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u157	But it doesn't always and completely give a representative picture of what people think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u158	Rightly, and that's why I sort the messages. I try to support my question because the questions also live in society. I'm not asking on my own behalf, but I'm also asking because there are questions in society. Unfortunately, the Minister is not answering this question. What financial resources or attention does the government pay to those radicals who threaten municipal councils and mayors, so that it is a rule of law that they both tackle? How sensitive is the Minister to the media statements of the right-wing media and the extreme right-wing parties here and how does the Minister maintain the rule of law as Minister of the Interior? Don't beat around the bush, just say honestly, in percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u159	The honest answer is that I do not speak publicly about the distribution of funds within the AIVD. I just said that. I have also added that Mr Öztürk can be assured that, when distributing these funds, it does not matter whether the threat comes from the left, right, from above or below, but that only the extent to which it threatens national security is the test. I think that's a reassuring answer too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u160	I give the floor to Mr Bontes as the first speaker in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr President, I have three motions and I will read them very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister of Security and Justice to provide the Public Prosecutor with an indication that Jitse Akse no longer has to be prosecuted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Jitse Akse has been seriously endangered by the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to protect him,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that jihadists enter Europe via the asylum influx;]] [[noting that returned Dutch jihadists are currently free to roam our country;]] [[calls on the government to make administrative detention possible as soon as possible, so that jihadists can also be arrested and detained on that ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-350]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-351]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-352]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers very much for the first-term replies. The Minister for Security and Justice referred in his first reply to the question of managing the flow of refugees. We are not going to talk about terminology; it is about the flows and the dangers that accumulate in them. We believe that the border is the only good job for those flows, because that's where they have to stop. Hence the next motion, which we're not filing for the first time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders and not to allow any more asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-353]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u163	My second motion concerns the mayor of Katwijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Mayor Wienen van Katwijk deliberately withheld and admitted incidents in the Katwijk azc;]] [[Whereas there is never an excuse to sweep this type of incident under the carpet;]] [[whereas directors remain credible only by being transparent;]] [[Whereas drivers should be fair about incidents and the crime rates in which they are processed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Mayor Wienen of Katwijk is removed from office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-354]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u164	In Spijkenisse, PVV supporters held a counter demonstration. One of them said that the ladies who also held a counter-demonstration deserved to be raped. I think it is good that the PVV Group, which stands for a non-violent society, says something about this and lets it know what it thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u165	I do not quite understand the text on a counter-demonstration and such, but I think we distributed resistance spray last Saturday. I was there. At this fine manifestation the atmosphere was absolutely good. Among other things, it was disturbed by, I believe, feminists. I understand afterwards that some ugly words have been used by someone who calls Mr Öztürk a PVV supporter. He may be a PVV supporter, but once again, we have always called for non-violent resistance. If this man utters ugly words, they're on this gentleman's account. If what is in the newspaper has been said, it is not a good language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u166	The PVV therefore believes that this man should be prosecuted and punished. Would you also like to make a call to your supporters who attend such demonstrations? In your words, they are nonviolent, but in the end they are violent. Do you want to say something about them having to stop and not being able to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u167	Mr Öztürk draws all kinds of conclusions, as if I think someone should be prosecuted. As far as I know, there hasn't even been a report against this guy. I don't think that's necessary if you're shouting ugly things, as long as there's no call for violence or anything like that. Again, I do not know the precise texts of this gentleman. At least it wasn't that neat. Last week in the Brabants Dagblad, my party leader Wilders confirmed that we are always in favour of non-violent resistance. I do not think we can be clearer than we were in the newspaper at the time. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions. It is good that we have reviewed the action plan again today. We are going to talk about this in detail, but we are seeing progress. That's important. We have also understood that the Minister of Security and Justice intends to think carefully about how he can better monitor the returned jihadists, perhaps with some form of detention. We'd like to give him some direction on that. That is why we have prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas returned jihad fighters pose a major threat to national security and the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator (NCTV) recently indicated that returned jihadists are more hardened than ever;]] [[whereas returning jihadists should be made clear on their return to the Netherlands that their exit is contrary to all the principles of our democratic rule of law;]] [[Whereas the immediate detention of any returned jihad warrior is therefore sensible and justified, given the war crimes committed in jihad areas and the threat posed by jihad warriors;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that every returned jihadganger is taken into detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-355]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u169	I told you, this motion is a directional one. We've already tasted a little bit that there seems to be a commitment. We would like it to become concrete. Then we can always hold the motion. I'm very willing to do that. I would have liked to point out that we are talking about detention, not just monitoring it. We are pleased that the Minister of the Interior wants to re-examine how AIVD information can be used. I was a little shocked when he said that the AIVD wouldn't do anything if the service heard in a tap that a felony was being committed. It can't be that it's hands in the air, that he hears that something dangerous is going on and that he can't use it because it's AIVD information. I hope that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. I have just heard Minister Van der Steur say that we need to do the screening properly, to prevent ISs from actually coming into the refugee stream and taking advantage of it. I'm very happy about that. He also says that it is well arranged in the Netherlands, because asylum seekers are screened immediately upon entry. But at the same time I hear him say that a refugee is only screened at the start of the asylum procedure, often after months, for criminal offences that may indicate signs of jihadism. That's what this is all about. So that doesn't happen until after six months. I am not at all reassured that this first screening, which the Minister is talking about, is sufficient. I also heard the Minister say that the European Union is committed to those hotspots. We all know they barely work yet. On this point, too, I am not reassured that there is sufficient attention for people at risk, as the Minister himself says. I therefore call on the Minister to work to strengthen European border and coastal surveillance, where this thorough screening of all refugees should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. Facts, facts and facts. Do we believe, to say the least, that Mr De Graaf of the PVV is making a hypocritical speech against each other, or are we assuming facts, the truth? The truth is that it cannot be ruled out that terrorists also enter our country through the flow of refugees, but that, despite the investigative work carried out by the services, there is hardly any evidence available to date. De Volkskrant wrote a few months ago that according to NCTV there is a reason for concern. My group also believes that it is always advisable to be vigilant. I believe that we should focus on good cooperation services and not cut back on them. Fortunately, the cuts on the AIVD have been reversed and it is being built again with man and power to bring the expertise back to the right level. But let us not forget the very first servitude and watchful eyes and ears in the neighborhood. And that's the police. We can have this debate until midnight, we can continue to drive each other crazy with matters that are not based on facts, but for my group one thing is clear: if we cut back on our important security, which, among other things, is secured by our police, then we have really gone the wrong way. Therefore, once again a plea to both leaders to take seriously the call made yesterday from the police, we cannot handle it, we cannot carry out our duties properly in this way, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet here today has clarified again what we are doing at the moment to prevent terrorist threats through the security chain or through returning Syrians. That made things clear for a while. The VVD is particularly concerned about the group of returners, which we have discussed extensively today. Although the Minister of V and J indicated that there were few, including of the second generation, we should not stop and we should continue to think about how to deal with these people. The VVD believes that pressure should remain on the boiler when looking for ways to pick them up. We continue to fully support the proposal to criminalise residence in IS. The law with the administrative measures, which is already in the Chamber, wants to strengthen the minister even further. The VVD gladly awaits these proposals, but has co-signed the motion of colleague Van Toorenburg to give direction to that tightening. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for his commitment to return to the VVD's desire for the plea recently made by a judge in the NRC to involve AIVD material in criminal cases against jihad fighters in French example. He will inform the Chamber more about it, and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mr. Chairman. We have only one minute's speaking time in the second term. That is why, unfortunately, I have to be very brief. Fortunately, we heard the facts tonight. Furthermore, we have heard from the ministers that the fear that the PVV brings out and takes over the right-wing media is not true. People, just don't fall for that! That is why we from DENK say: less, less, less fear images, more, more facts. I've prepared a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the large influx of refugees evokes feelings of fear and uncertainty among some of the Dutch population;]] [[Whereas these fears may turn into intolerance and aggression;]] [[calls on the government to pursue an active communication policy in which the facts about refugees are repeatedly emphasised in order to counter speculations and unjustified fears,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-356]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors very much for their reply. It is good to hear the state of play on all kinds of important issues, both as regards returned Syrians and as regards screening and registration of refugees coming to the Netherlands. I have Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on item No. 355 signed. It states that it is important that we can actually take returned Syrians into detention as much as possible in order to be able to take measures, including in the context of deradicalisation. I am curious to hear what the outcome of that motion will be. In addition, I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for the repeated commitment to return to the withdrawal of the right to vote in the event of a terrorist offence. The legislative proposal we now have in the process is talking about reducing nationality, including in the case of terrorist offences. This cannot be done in the case of a single nationality, and our efforts are therefore aimed at depriving as much of the privileges attached to Dutch citizenship as possible in such cases. You do not take away nationality, but you do have privileges if you have the right to vote and be appointed to public service. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important that measures such as screening, proper registration and investigation of refugees coming to the Netherlands are also taken. Frankly, I would particularly like to argue for sobriety. It is indeed a fact that we do not know very much about the people who come to Europe and the Netherlands. Those people need to be properly examined so that we know that we are not running unnecessary risks. That is what my group wants to bet on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u175	Mr. Chairman. The people fleeing Syria do so for the violence of IS and to an even greater extent for Assad. We need to offer these people a safe place to stay here. It's as simple as that. I am glad that two things have become clear tonight. This cabinet works hard and does a lot to combat terrorists. On the other hand, the extent of the threat is also put in perspective. We must not close our eyes, because there is a potential threat that the refugees will also enter terrorists, but it is not the case that they will enter our country with hundreds or thousands. So I congratulate the government on its approach. I remain concerned about European cooperation. We do our best to get information from anywhere in the Netherlands. In the fight against terrorism, I continue to say that it is about obtaining information, which does not matter whether it is information from the flow of refugees, which we are talking about during this debate, or information from the neighborhood agent. It's important to have ears and eyes open. However, I still doubt whether this has been done so well in Europe. This six months is the Netherlands President of the EU. The directors have many official but also less official meetings with their colleagues. Do they want to continue to urge them to take the same action, to show the same motivation as the Netherlands, not only on the repressive side, but also on the gathering of information, also through softer sources? That's what I said. I wish the Cabinet good luck with the progress of the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u176	I see the Minister of Security and Justice can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the questions they have put and the motions that have been tabled. To Mrs Swinkels, I note that she did not fully reflect what I said. We have two types of screening. First of all, there is the screening in the context of our security. It's done by the police. I've explained how this whole process is going. This screening shall take place immediately upon the entry of the refugee. There is therefore no question of delay or anything like that at all. Then we have the asylum procedure, in which screening plays a different role. This concerns the question of which country a person comes from and whether he is not from a safe country and the like. That's a completely different consideration. It can take place at a later date. This has been shared several times by the Secretary of State with the Chamber. The screening we are talking about today is safety screening, which takes place without delay. There is no delay in this, as I have already indicated. If Mrs Swinkels wishes to see them at some point, she is very welcome to look for herself as part of a working visit to see how screening is taking place, so that concerns that she might still have can be overcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u178	Then I think there has been a misunderstanding, which I would like to see clarified. Didn't the Minister say that signals of jihadism are first examined in the asylum procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u179	No, the discussion was about the following. The huge influx had caused delays in screening. However, from November onwards, we have taken all the measures to ensure that the screening, carried out by the police, takes place immediately. If there is an indication of this, telephone research, as well as passport research, I say in the direction of Mr De Graaf. That screening is in the context of our security and will take place immediately. If there is any reason for further steps, they will also be taken. The asylum procedure is independent of that. It can take place at a later date, partly in view of the enormous influx of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u180	Finally, Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u181	Do I understand that fingerprints are recorded at the screening at entry and the check is done who is who, but that a deeper investigation is not done at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u182	As I said earlier, when there is reason to conduct in-depth investigations, the phones are being read and the Public Prosecutor's Office can also be called. At that time, nothing is left to chance. We want to minimise the chance that refugees are people who are a danger to our society. That is the task of the government, and we take it very seriously, albeit I cannot derive 100% certainty from it, as Mrs Swinkels will understand. I would like to confirm to Mrs Gesthuizen that the police are a very important part of our security and that I greatly appreciate the commitment of the police in this context. I would like to thank Mrs Tellegen for saying that she recognizes herself in the concern that the government has for returners, and certainly the returners of today, whom she called 'the second generation'; that is a correct description, I think. She said, "Keep thinking and make sure you don't stand still." I can confirm that. We keep thinking, and we're not standing still. I thank Mr Van der Staaij for his kind words. I will pass on Mr Recourt's request to Secretary of State Dijkhoff, as far as he is concerned more specifically, on the work of the Netherlands as part of the Presidency. I'm getting to the motions. The Bontes motion in part No. 350 intervenes in the relationship between the government, the Minister of Security and Justice, and the Public Prosecutor's Office. As I have said, I am not prepared to do so. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. The Bontes motion in part No. 351 intervenes in monitoring and securing the system. If Dutch citizens need to be protected, this can be done if there is a particular threat. We have a policy for this, as I have explained to Mr Bontes on several occasions. I'm not making any further announcements about that. I must discourage the motion for that reason. In the motion in part No. 352 by Mr Bontes is requested to allow administrative detention. I understand that administrative detention does not fit in with our system or with our rule of law. There's no ground for it. I'm thinking about what we can do. In this context, I would suggest to Mr Bontes that the motion be retained. If he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The motion-De Graaf/Fritsma in part No. 353 is about the Dutch borders. The answer to the request was given in the first period. I must advise against this motion because the government does not see it as a solution to the problem, apart from the measures already taken by the Secretary of State. Then I come to the Van Toorenburg and others motion for a resolution. in piece No. 355. I've promised to investigate additional possibilities. I will include it either in a letter or in the letter of amendment to the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism. I would therefore like to come back to that when we deal with the legislative proposal. Should the motion be put to the vote in this form, I must advise her against it because of the arguments I have given, but I would like to suggest to the authors that they should hold this motion so that they can see whether the solution I have found within our legal system will be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u183	But we are particularly concerned about the fact that we are looking for a way to detain people instead of just keeping an eye on them. If we can get that commitment, we can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u184	I cannot give this commitment on detention because it is contrary to our rule of law and the ECHR. I admit, however, that I am doing research, as I promised during the debate on the terrible attacks in Paris, in order to see how we can move towards what Mrs Van Toorenburg and other Members of this Chamber want. I have already promised this to Mr Klaver and Mr Samsom who asked a similar question at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u185	Now that I hear that the Minister is really going to work in our direction, I will keep this motion on and I will see if the Minister meets us adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u186	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (29754, No. 355). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u187	In the Öztürk motion to item No. 356 calls on the government to pursue an active communication policy. I should like to ask Mr Öztürk how this motion should be interpreted. If by this motion he means that the government always provides objective information on the basis of facts about the flow of refugees and what happens there, then this motion supports policy. After all, we are always in favour of providing information that is objective and based on facts. However, if Mr Öztürk means by this motion that we have to make a separate investment in an advertising campaign or something like that, in which we only highlight refugees, it is the question whether this does not contradict the objective that Mr Öztürk is trying to achieve. If that is the intention, I must advise against the motion, but if Mr Öztürk says'make sure that you always communicate objectively and on the basis of facts about refugees', I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. My opinion therefore depends on the interpretation of Mr Öztürk's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u188	Just an explanation of what you mean by your motion, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u189	I understand that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u190	I was afraid you'd start again with...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u191	You shouldn't be afraid, that's what the whole debate is about. You shouldn't be afraid in advance. You'll have to wait and then judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u192	Yeah, yeah. Now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u193	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I'm going a long way with the Minister. I'm just saying it needs to be a little more active. The data that we have received this evening has created a great deal of clarity and removed a great deal of fear among people. If the Minister does this more actively, so that the parties who want to create fear do not have the opportunity to do so, because there are facts on the table, I think we have found each other. That way we can take away the fear images.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u194	If that means that we do not have to use a separate agency to launch a campaign, we have found each other. If the motion is adopted, the government will interpret it in this way. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u195	I still had a reply from the Minister from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u196	Can you please repeat the question again just in case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u197	The question was how many terrorists have now been picked out of the asylum stream.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u198	Yes, the Minister would come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u199	That question is at the intersection of my territory and Home Affairs. There are currently no confirmed cases of asylum seekers who are in the asylum procedure and who have been mixed in the migratory flow for terrorist reasons. That does not mean that it cannot be done, because if it is, we do not know it, but it does mean that we do not have confirmation of it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u200	Mrs. Swinkels, do you have an unanswered question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u201	My previous question has been answered, but I had one more question left open. I may be wrong, but I'll find out. I asked the Minister whether he, as President of the EU, would in future be committed to strengthening the European Border and Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u202	This is not something I will support, but something for Secretary of State Dijkhoff, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in their respective capacities as part of the EU Presidency. This is the policy of the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. You still have one answer from me and the opinion on one motion. The answer is addressed to Mrs Van Toorenburg, who sighed that she should hope that something can always be done with it if the AIVD is on the trail of a crime. That answer is relevant, because it also relates to the coordination between the AIVD and the criminal justice chain. The legal framework is now as follows. Special resources can be used because there is reason to believe that someone is threatening national security, for example because he is part of a terrorist plot. If one finds out that a possible crime has been committed or will be committed which is totally separate from the basis for the use of such special means, the AIVD cannot, in general, decide to inform the police. If that were to happen, any use of special means would create a new channel for the police to gather all kinds of information. Then the delicate balance between privacy and national security might have to be changed. That would be undesirable from the point of view of national security. There are exceptions to this. If a tap is placed that provides information that really means that an assassination will be committed, there would be ways to deliver an official report, even if that assassination attempt is independent of the reason for the burden of using that particular means. However, the standard context is that there is a strict separation between pursuing national security and acting on the basis of the information obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u204	And the motion in part No. 354?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u205	I advise against this with reference to the first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-9.u206	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, his officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate.
