ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday's De Financieele Dagblad reported that banks are going to roll out the online identifier iDIN widely in the private sector. There's nothing wrong with that, and that's not the issue either. However, if you and I as a consumer request this service, we can log in not only to our favorite clothing site, but also to the Tax Office and to insurance companies. And that's where the shoe wrings. We need a successor for DigiD. Pilots have been run by different means, including iDIN, but the admission requirements for these new resources have not yet been completed and supervision has not yet been regulated. Therefore, the pilot period has been extended until the end of next year by a maximum number of issued logins until all the conditions are clear and all the logs have been checked against those conditions. The Chamber wants security, reliability and privacy for all Dutch people to be guaranteed before we all sign in massively to the government. Just to be clear, the VVD also wants to hurry with a good digital passport, but it needs to be careful and safe. Anyone with an iDIN login can immediately login to the government. That's what it says in the press release of the Dutch Payment Association. And with this in the short term potentially hundreds of thousands of Dutch people with their iDIN will log in to the government. My simple question to the Minister is: how is the Minister going to prevent massive log-in to the government, while the conditions are not yet ready and no test has yet been carried out? Or: how is the minister going to speed up the government process? Of course, that would be even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The question relates to a means used by banks in the private domain, the so-called iDIN medium. Of course, we in the public sector are not responsible for this. We are developing a set of public funds that we have also discussed regularly for access to what we call "the bsn domain," the domain of the citizen service number. For the viewers at home: this includes study funding, the Tax Administration, the UWV, the care, the local government, the municipality. So that's a very large sector with millions of interactions a year. We have done a number of pilots for this, but those pilots also had private resources. One of these pilots was indeed the iDIN tool, which allows log-in to the Tax Administration on a limited scale. The most recent number I have is that so far, within the framework of that pilot, 2.090 people have done so. You should see this in relation to the total number of interactions with DigiD at the Tax Office, which is 12 million. Those 2.090 are therefore only a very small number compared to the total number of interactions. Moreover, this number could grow as part of this pilot. The tax authorities and banks have agreed to limit the pilot to 30 000. So it's a small-scale pilot. I will also come forward with a uniform set of requirements before the end of this year, which will also form the basis for the still to be submitted Act on generic digital infrastructure. That bill will provide further frameworks for all the resources that can be used in the public domain, for example in the Tax Administration. Then, of course, the Chamber is fully in the picture to see if it agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. The Minister outlines a very wide range of government organizations where you can log in, the UWV, insurance, Tax Administration and so on. He also says that last year there were 2,090 people logged in to the IRS. That's right. Tax returns can be made from the end of February or early March, but at the beginning of March only two banks had started iDIN. That was then further extended, in May and June, but the tax return had to be done by then. I've been waiting for you myself. I thought: I'm going to log in to my ABN AMRO, but iDIN didn't get available at ABN AMRO until sometime in May. That's when I had to file my report. So it's very explainable why there were only 2.090 people. The Minister says he wants to limit it to 30,000, but if you look at the whole range of public services where you can log in and the wide range of facilities or credentials that the banks now want to issue, you'll find that 30,000 if you can log in to the Tax Administration from the start of 2017. There is therefore a possibility that we will be far above the 30,000. That could be 100,000 or 200,000, and I really wonder if that is the intention, for a means that has not yet been tested. It will undoubtedly be good, but it has not yet been tested, the framework conditions are not yet ready, governance is not yet ready. While we have said from the Chamber: we want to test resources before they are rolled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	First of all, let me return to what Mrs De Caluwe said in her first contribution. She insisted on an emergency. That is also the reason why we started the pilot and that we are currently preparing that uniform set of requirements. We are also discussing, for example with the banks, whether they can ensure that their iDIN means meet all the requirements it has to meet, if we want to use them in the public domain in the future. That consultation is under way and I shall come back to it in the uniform set of requirements. That set will of course become part of the General Digital Infrastructure Act which will be dealt with by the Chamber and which will be given in consultation this year. I am trying to do this in line with the wishes of the VVD, namely to hurry or speed up this issue on the one hand, but on the other hand to ensure that there is a set of demands co-established by the Chamber or a newly assessed set of requirements on the basis of which it can be done. Finally, that private parties are also active, the VVD is unlikely to find it objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	The fact that private parties are involved is not the issue. We have said: do pilots and at the same time set up the framework conditions. The Minister is right about that. However, we have also said that further roll-out above 30 000 will certainly not be possible until these funds have been assessed against cross-compliance. This is where the shoe wrings. The preconditions are not yet in place. If there are, then the means must be tested. In the meantime, more resources are being used to log in to the Tax Administration. That's exactly where the shoe wrings. There can be much more login than in the pilot period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have actually already given the answer to that. That number is limited to 30,000 in the agreement between the Tax Administration and the banks. That still gives room at the moment, because the number is only 2.090. In the coming weeks, some more people will be able to make use of it. In that case, until the Chamber is consulted, it may be established that the requirements are met, thereby allowing a greater number of persons to be admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm not going to repeat the whole debate we've had before. An important point in the debate is privacy and data collection. Now the bank will contact the Tax Administration, but the same bank will also provide the means with which I will buy everything online. What does this mean for our privacy? That is a very big question, but I'm going to make it very small: what happens to the data? Are the conditions for this already clear? Will they be destroyed in time and not resold, as was ING's plan a year ago, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	Additional requirements for privacy and the fight against fraud still need to be addressed before there is a wider public domain admission. That must be done before those terms can be applied. It is now a very limited pilot, namely, as I have just said, 2,000 cases out of the 12 million. That's really just a little test. Those requirements must be met before it goes any further. That's what the conversation's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	We can wait a long time for legislation. Those rules of the game have yet to come to the Chamber. The point, however, is that experiments are now being carried out and the experimental space is being increased. So you need to be very clear about which rules play a role here in terms of privacy and security. I would like to know from the Minister what rules are now agreed on the front with the banks, with the private sector, so that privacy and security are not thrown out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	That is the subject of a letter sent to the Chamber on 25 August and also of an AO that we have had with a number of parties. It could be that not all parties were there. This issue was discussed in more detail in the AA on 29 September. I have just said that before a private resource, which I believe will prove to be an excellent means in itself, can be allowed to be used in health care, in study funding or in general, further requirements of confidentiality and fraud-proofing will have to be met. The discussions on this matter are still ongoing. The uniform set of requirements, as agreed with the Chamber, goes to the Chamber before the end of the year and will be the basis for a legislative proposal to be given in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	That wasn't my question. That that set of rules and legislation are still coming to the Chamber, I know. Now the pilot is stretched and a drug is going to be used by perhaps more than 30,000 people. I want to know what has been agreed with the private sector on this part to prevent people's security and privacy from being compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's not right. The pilot will not be stretched. The pilot falls within the limits as discussed with the Chamber. Both written and oral consultations with the Chamber took place on this subject. I have already said that additional privacy and anti-fraud requirements need to be filled in before a means can be rolled out more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that the Minister is accelerating as we approach the end of the year, especially on this issue. The EID is still waiting and you can see that business is taking big steps with iDIN. We appreciate that from the Minister, but the CDA is asking whether the Minister is in control when it comes to this pilot. Isn't he being overtaken by business? If the Minister can guarantee that he is in control, then we support him in this pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, I'm in control. There are different pilots running side by side. With regard to the private pilot of the banks and their customers, of course, I am not in control, and I should not, because that is a private instrument. Agreements have been made regarding their admission to the Tax Administration on a very limited scale. They are sufficient for the small-scale pilot that is now running. If this pilot is to be extended or designed in such a way that a login of the bank in the bsn domain can be used, then there must be a legal basis for this and an additional set of requirements must also be met. I'll inform the Chamber about that. The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. After the suspension, we will vote.
