ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u1	Mr. Chairman. A little less than a month ago, we were here for the first term of the plenary debate on the amendment of the Media Act. It is good to hear that even today we all share the importance of a strong public service broadcaster, in which the broadcasters and the NPO work together on a valuable and multi-form programming for a broad and diverse audience. I want that strong network to be there in the future. However, there is a need to change this. Public service broadcasting needs to become more capable, distinctive and platform-independent, with more creative competition and more jointness. This is necessary to remain relevant to the public. All these things we'll settle with this bill. In the first period, it became clear that the Court considered it necessary to adapt certain parts of the proposals. I made commitments on that. I summarized this in a letter which I sent to the Chamber on 12 February. In this letter I mentioned several groups, but I forgot to mention the D66 group. That wasn't my intention. On the contrary, I made the commitments on the appointments on the basis of D66's contribution. I heard Mr Schnabel correctly when he first said that more power in the NPO should have less influence from the government in order to better guarantee the independence of the public media. The Court's input today provides further guidance on how these changes should take shape. The House is concerned specifically with three things. Firstly, it concerns the way in which the directors and supervisors of the NPO and the RPO are appointed. Secondly, it concerns the relationship between the NPO on the one hand and the broadcasters on the other. Thirdly, it is about how the NPO engages the public. I am therefore proposing tonight to supplement the Media Act on these three parts. In my reply, I would first of all like to look at these three parts. I would also like to discuss with the Chamber how best to include these additional parts in the Media Act. In the second block of my answer I would like to address the questions that have been asked about the recent appointments at the NPO and NTR. In this block, I also address questions from the Chamber about some other parts of the bill, including transparency, philosophical programming, the programme status, the space for young makers, innovation, talent development and the Viewing Guide in relation to Star. In the third block, I conclude my contribution by answering the questions about regional broadcasting. Among other things, the Chamber asked for attention to the realization of the austerity measures for Omrop Fryslân, for the letter with the concerns of Omroep Zeeland and RTV Drenthe and for editorial statutes. Several MPs have expressed concerns about the role of the Minister in the appointment of directors and supervisors of public media institutions. There is indeed room for improvement in the current appointment procedures, which have sometimes been established for some time. That was also the reason for the reconnaissance I announced earlier. This review concerns the current procedures for appointments in the media sector involving the Minister. I only note that for the NPO and the RPO there is a desire for more direct adjustment of the procedures in the Chamber. The Chamber gives roughly two reasons for this. Firstly, the steering role of the NPO requires a greater distance from the government. Secondly, the current procedures do not sufficiently prevent the appearance of political interference. In my view, this input from the Chamber provides concrete points of reference for changing procedures. The government must come at a greater distance from the appointments. I am prepared to make changes to the law in the short term. Of course, I will launch the previously promised exploration into the whole of the appointments in the media landscape, the media sector, this spring. I will also take into account the previous concerns of this Chamber. The changes to the procedure for the NPO and the RPO will be given to the researchers as a starting point. I would say to Mrs Sent of the PvdA that I will also involve independent experts, or as she calls it "domain expertise'. However, the adjustments I am proposing at the moment are as follows. For the appointment of the Governing Board of the NPO and the RPO, the adaptations shall, in short, mean that the right of consent of the Minister in the event of appointment, suspension and dismissal will disappear. I've already promised this in the first term. The members of the Management Board shall be appointed, suspended and dismissed directly by the Supervisory Board of the NPO and the RPO. The Supervisory Boards may have to take an appointment decision before the amendment enters into force. I admit that I will fully accept the Supervisory Board's proposal in all cases, thus de facto implementing this new approach. For the appointment procedure for the NPO Supervisory Board, my proposal is that the recruitment and selection process should be completely removed from the Minister. That means, among other things, the following. The Supervisory Board shall itself appoint an independent appointment advisory committee and set up a recruitment advisory office. The Supervisory Board shall draw up the job profiles for the new members and shall request the views of, inter alia, the Board of Directors, the College of Appeals and the Central Works Council. The Supervisory Board is thus also responsible for open, transparent recruitment. Think of public publication of vacancies in national newspapers, so that everyone can learn about them and apply for them. The appointment advisory committee then selects one or more candidates, depending on the number of vacancies, and gives a binding opinion to the minister. The Minister only takes a marginal test because of his ministerial responsibility, before he nominates the candidate for an appointment by Royal Decree. In fact, such a marginal test means that only in the event of conflict with the law, non-compliance with the demands of care, or other serious interests, is a deviation from the nomination. I think it is important that this should then be recorded in writing so that there is complete openness about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u2	The Secretary of State speaks of a marginal test and mentions three aspects. The last aspect is important interests. Can he explain that something, because important interests can be found in anything. I wonder how he points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u3	Mrs Bikker is right. When it comes to major interests, they can't be light reasons. It is a matter of unforeseen circumstances which weigh so heavily, of which we do not know exactly how they work in advance, but which hinder a proper appointment. In conjunction with the written motivation, which means that there is always a possibility of a discussion with the Chamber, there is no need to think lightly about it. It is in any case a matter of political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u4	So the Secretary of State admits that he will explain it in writing to the House of Representatives if the marginal test would include the other two that it cannot continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u5	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u6	That commitment stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u7	There is another question from Mrs Sent about the schedule of resignations. I've already indicated that I'm working on that. If we change the law on this point, it will not hurt to legally anchor the schedule of resignation. The Court requested clarification of the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u8	The Secretary of State is moving on to another topic, but I'd like to go back to the RPO. I think I remember that in the first term several political groups asked about the state of affairs regarding appointments for the RPO. I haven't seen any names yet. Does this mean that this new line for the RPO, the Regional Public Service, will already apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u9	That is not the case. That's not possible either, because there is no supervisory board of the RPO yet. If we want to put the appointment procedure in the hands of a supervisory board, which is possible, for example, at the NPO because there is already a supervisory board, we will have to appoint a first supervisory board for the RPO. In my view, this should be done carefully with an independent appointment committee, with independent profiles and with publicity of profiles. We shall be taking the necessary care in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u10	What if it doesn't work out? Suppose there are major interests, which the Secretary of State or his successor says this is really not possible. What happens then? I said this morning that it seems important to me that this is clear. My proposal was that the committee should get back to work. It's quite a point, though, if it turns out there are such serious interests that haven't been seen in advance. It seems almost a theoretical situation. However, let us assume that every theoretical situation occurs once in practice and that there must be a solution. My proposal was this morning that the committee should go back to work in that case. It should not be the case that the Secretary of State or the Minister still knows a nice person for whom there are no major interests not to be appointed. I charge it a little bit, but I'd like some clarity on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u11	Mr Schnabel is right to make a point. In that case, it would be too easy to reject someone, so that the ruler can put one of his or her desires forward. In fact, the whole procedure needs to be re-examined. It is likely that the supervisory board will also scratch behind the ears and wonder how it can ensure that it is done properly the second time. I would like to comment on the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. This is a subject that many spokesmen have mentioned during the debate. The Chamber asked for a clarification of the situation. The government sees strengthening the role of the NPO, while, of course, preserving the unique power of broadcasters, as a prerequisite for achieving more commonality. This is an important starting point in the legislative proposal. At the same time, I agree that there should be no ambiguity about the frameworks within which the NPO carries out its steering role and the relationship to the responsibilities of broadcasters. That is why I am prepared to clarify this in the law. I propose that the law should include that the NPO should carry out its steering role on the basis of the joint agreements and strategy. These are described in the concession policy plan, the performance agreement, the profiles of the supply channels and the coordination rules under which the annual plans fall. Broadcasters are also involved in the development of all these frameworks and documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u12	The Secretary of State says he wants an amendment to the law on that point. I assume that he is making this adjustment in order to prevent us from constantly discussing the content of the concept of steering and the fact that it can become more and more. The second part of the discussion is always the question of what the broadcasters are about. How does the State Secretary ensure Article 2.88, which concerns the independence of broadcasters, when it comes to content and form? Even if the concept of "control" is framed, which he is now starting with, the broadcasting side can still be watered down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u13	Mrs Bikker is right to make a point. I also suggested that the law should specify that the NPO should take into account the freedom and responsibility of broadcasters for the form and content of the media offer. This can be done by recording that the NPO must comply with Article 2.88 of the Media Act. So we're actually setting the proportions a little more clearly. We tell what the NPO is about, but also where his responsibility ends and when he has to hand over the stick to the broadcasters. The NPO is about content frameworks on the front, but if a good deal has been made about it, it is the responsibility of the broadcaster to make it a nice programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u14	Mrs. Bikker wanted to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u15	That sounds really good. I'd like to see that written out. Now it is quickly listed, but I hope that the Secretary of State will come to the procedure of what he now promises. Last week we all saw a letter in which the NPO and some of the broadcasters agreed on what we are exchanging today. Does the Secretary of State say that what has been agreed will have a much stronger legal framework, but that it will affect exactly the arrangements that are there? Otherwise, we'll have the discussion again. I'd like that to be sharp. It'd be worth a sweet thing to me if we're done with the discussion after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u16	I think we all want to get into a phase where we can say: now it's done, now we're going to get to work. I myself am very pleased that parties in Hilversum have also taken action themselves and agreed on the drafting of the bill. That is in the letter that the Chamber has just received. I fully endorse those appointments. I welcome the fact that we have come a step further than the previous letter they wrote to the Chamber in September. In my view, they are very much in line with the changes to the law that I have just proposed. So you're actually recording it in two places. You could say, "Doubly asphyxiated keeps it better." Well, at least we'll know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u17	I'd still like to get it a little sharper. It is nice that the broadcasters and the NPO have written together a letter explaining how they are going to work. I love all that, but it starts with what's in the law. The State Secretary began his reply with the concession policy plan and other products that broadcasters and NPO make with each other. I would like to turn that around and make no mistake about it: the frameworks are outlined by what is in the law and on that basis CoR and NPO will work together, but not in the reverse order. I hope that's what the Secretary of State meant. If not, I have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u18	That's exactly what I'm talking about. That's why I started to specify what we can explicate in the law. I am only very happy to see that the letter sent by the NPO and a large part of the broadcasters actually fits in very well and gives a further operationalisation on a number of parts of it. In that sense, it starts with the law. That law, Mrs Bikker, has, in my view, been more clear on this point, so that there can be no misconceptions about it. Now there is also a letter indicating that one goes along this line and that is only very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u19	I have a clarifying question. I hear the Secretary of State speak a number of times about changes to the law. Can he clarify how this is going to be procedurally? Does this mean that this law will be amended and so goes back to the House of Representatives or will there be another law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u20	If the Chamber will allow me, I would like to finish this point and also the issue of public involvement. I have heard a number of Members say that this should come back in a supplement to the law. I would like to go through those points and then I would like to put forward a procedural proposal for how we can achieve that in my view. Then I come to the question of how we will ultimately get that into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u21	I don't really agree with that. The Secretary of State makes a number of commitments here. If they are going to find their way into a law, I want to be able to discuss it and debate it. I would also like to give input for that. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State whether he's gonna come up with a novelle or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u22	I have a different proposal than to come up with a novella and I would like to come back to that later. I think that in another way we can serve the interests put forward here in the First Chamber with the bill, without having to hold it up. This would have a very negative impact on the pace of progress in the region in order to speed up the reorganisation needed to cope with the austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u23	I would ask the Secretary of State to now appoint the procedure he intends to follow so that we can debate it. Because I think this is a novel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u24	Mr Atsma, do you have a question on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group would also like to know what procedure the Secretary of State envisages. I think it would be useful to know what we are talking about, also in view of the questions raised by Mr GroenLinks and others. If everyone wants to see it in a law and the Secretary of State doesn't want it and has another idea, we'd like to hear that idea from him first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u26	I hear support in this Chamber for the principles of the legislative proposal that we have discussed today. At the same time, I note that there are still concerns among various groups. I can arrange the proposed amendments to the Media Act by means of an additional bill, which I hope to deal with before the summer recess in this Chamber. In any case, I intend to deal with it in the Council of Ministers this month. When this bill is adopted, I shall finish it in the short term, only the articles relating to regional broadcasting will enter into force, so that we can speed it up. The other articles, the articles relating to national public service broadcasting, will not enter into force until the First Chamber has approved the additional law it can expect for the summer recess. For example, I believe that we find a balance between the need now for regional broadcasters to proceed with this law and the desire of the Chamber to allow the Media Act to be implemented in its entirety only once the additions have been made by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u27	This seems, with all the good intentions of the Secretary of State, a bit like a mess, because I assume that the House of Representatives should also be involved in this process. Surely it can't be that he's making a deal with the First Chamber right now, no matter how important we think we are? He will also have to talk to the House of Representatives about this. Moreover, I ask myself in all sincerity whether it is possible to make a cut when the law comes into force. In any case, I would like to know what the Council of State, for example, will think of that. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u28	Mrs Teunissen has a further question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u29	It seems that the Secretary of State has become entangled in all the conversations he has had in the meantime with all the parties who have been invited to this house. We are now hearing things like 'we are going to work this out' and 'we are going to work that out'. However, we are now holding the debate and we benefit from clarity on what we can debate. Many parties have not participated in the talks in this house. Can the Secretary of State report in a letter on the discussions that have taken place in the meantime? I can't wait to hear it. Then we can look at them before the votes and base our judgement on them. I'd like to get a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u30	There are no records of the many conversations I have had. The nature of it wasn't like that either. I can make sure that before the vote on 8 March there is a letter in the Chamber explaining in black and white what I have just promised and will promise later. I was not quite finished with my proposal. There are also changes to the appointments, the clarification of the relationship between the NPO and broadcasters, public involvement and the phased entry into force of the bill, the timetable of the additional legislative proposal in relation to the legislative proposal concerning regional broadcasters. In this way, I believe that before the votes, my proposal can be clarified and the Chamber can look at it in peace and involve it in the consideration on 8 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u31	In my view, this Chamber has made it very clear that it wants to amend the legislative proposal as it stands. The Secretary of State is now suggesting that he can give guarantees. He says he's coming up with legal changes. Can he tell me how he can guarantee the Chamber that these legislative changes will make it to the House of Representatives? After all, the voting relations were completely different from here. How does the Secretary of State know that? Does he have a glass ball somewhere? If so, I would like to consult them, because I do have some questions about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u32	I do not know whether the voting conditions in the House of Representatives were quite different from those in this House, because no votes have yet taken place here. I am confident that some of these clarifications and additions to the law will also be welcomed there. I have just promised that I will not allow the law to enter into force, at least those parts relating to national public service broadcasting, until those clarifications and adjustments have been made by the First Chamber. So we have to go through that route neatly, from the Council of Ministers, the Council of State, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber. This can be done with great urgency, as well as with a novelle it can always be very fast. In my view, this is an elegant way of ensuring that we can speed up quickly with the part that is really needed for the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u33	Mrs Gerkens, come to your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u34	An elegant way for the First Chamber is a novelle. This isn't an elegant way. However, I understand from the Secretary of State that he is confident that it will be all right and that in the meantime he will suspend those parts of the law. What if it's not gonna be okay? What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u35	If it doesn't work out, those parts won't work out. I can include that black and white in the entry into force decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u36	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u37	Then why not just a novelle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u38	The answer to this is that the region needs certain parts of the legislative proposal very badly in order to get to work quickly. Furthermore, they are needed to be able to make a cut when it comes to entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u39	I'm gonna have to keep an eye on the order, 'cause there's an entire club here. Let's start with Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u40	The Secretary of State just made a very important remark. I like it a little sharper. In fact, the Secretary of State first assumed that it would come back to the First Chamber after it had been properly arranged in the Second Chamber, so that the First Chamber would get what she liked. At the same time, of course, Mrs Gerkens's point is very important. Actually, I have to put it the other way around. Suppose the Secretary of State does not manage to get into the Lower House what is proposed here in the Upper Chamber, is there in fact only a law on the RPO? Does the Secretary of State still use his power to introduce the part about the NPO without any changes, no matter how unfortunate for the Upper House? I think it is important for the Secretary of State to make it quite clear that this is not the case and that he only has some sort of hull law for the RPO. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u41	Mr Schnabel may hold me to that, although we assume the worst case scenario that the House of Representatives would not be able to accept. You can also imagine that over the last few days I have been able to consider myself and have understood myself with a number of spokesmen in the House of Representatives on the question of whether this kind of thing falls into the good hands of the House of Representatives. I am confident that we can get that before the summer here in the Upper House, which implies that it is also by the Lower House. Of course, that still has to be done carefully there. If things don't go well, we'll fall back on Mr Schnabel's scenario. I have faith in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u42	It's on the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u43	I have a suggestion for the Secretary of State, because I believe that politics here is unnecessarily complicated. I understand that the Secretary of State says that the articles on regional broadcasting are urgent and should enter into force. What does he care to prevent the Supreme Court from agreeing to a crippled law? He makes one promise after another about what needs to change. Surely you can't ask a First Chamber that has to be careful to agree to a law that has so many changes? My solution would be for the Secretary of State to withdraw all the articles for the time being and only to do the regional articles. Then he achieves the same effect. And if he's done with the House of Representatives, we can move on here. That is the only logical, politically correct and decent way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u44	Mr Nagel's proposal can be in theory, but it is an illusion to assume that this can be done quickly. This also requires an amendment of the law, which must first be made by the Council of Ministers, then by the Council of State and then by the House of Representatives. That leads to the same delay as the novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u45	The delay is indeed the same. We agree on that. It's just not right to adopt a wrong law. The Secretary of State can carry on with the things he needs and deal with the things that are not right in the same time frame that he must now enter. Then he'll save the Upper House from consenting to something that can't be done. The law is crippled, because the Secretary of State makes so many changes. He can't even ask that, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u46	I see the emotion with Mr Nagel. Of course, judging the law as it stands is up to every group, every member of this House. I think it's enough to ask for a ruling from the Supreme Court. What I want to do is not to go along the path proposed by Mr Nagel at the same rate. That really costs three or four months in the run-up to the summer. That would be a real shame for the speed that is now needed to ensure that the region is ready for the cuts that will take place in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u47	Mr Schnabel just passed a worst case scenario: the House of Representatives does not agree. The Secretary of State has said that in that case only the part of the RPO will remain standing and that the rest will fall. There is also another scenario that the Secretary of State and perhaps more people here do not like: the cabinet falls. Then, too, we have the situation that there is a piece of law, so to speak. I am very keen that the Secretary of State should put in black and white that the entire Media Act for the piece that is due to expire really only applies at the time of acceptance and entry into force of the amendments he proposes. Can he put that in writing? I have a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u48	I'll put that in black and white. This is also a worst case scenario. Should it occur and leave the cabinet, this First Chamber has not yet left. The commitment I made was therefore not a personal commitment, but a commitment made in function. You can also keep my successor to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u49	That's sharp. The second point is that the Secretary of State wants the RPO story to continue. Would he like to explain more clearly why it is so important that it continues? Does he also want to include the question of how to proceed with the RPO? Then came he in his third term. My concern is that we take this now and that it really remains a hull law. The other legislative proposal that has yet to be adopted must also have substance in order to make this a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u50	That's right. That is why there has been a good deal of thought about the amendments, the clarification and the supplement we can make to the legislative proposal. Of course, there have been discussions about this. At some point, you feel or you can count on support. In my view, it is. This will, of course, save us in the journey that we are going to go through to the summer in the next three or four months. The question is, what is the pressure of time now? From 1 January onwards, the cuts will be made for the region. The region has made a plan to organise a number of things together. I think she really stuck her neck out for that. Those things make the cuts to the programming as little as possible. Every month we lose now, the financial pressure increases. I see that there is great uncertainty in the region, including among the staff. That requires clarity, so that it knows where it is going. The staff would like to continue. I'd be happy to give it that assurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u51	Surely the Secretary of State has promised in the first term that he will bear the financial consequences of the postponement until the law is put to the final vote? I assume that the Secretary of State still stands for his ruling on regional broadcasting and its financial consequences. If he says it should take a month or two longer and has consequences, he's responsible for the financial consequences, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u52	I still stand for those words. That's what I shared with the region. Of course, it has already been delayed. In my view, we need to avoid further delays, which will cost even more. On top of that, I can see that there is great uncertainty. The regional broadcasters and the staff working for them have submitted a plan. They've asked if they can go through with that. I hope you feel, as I do, that politics is responsible for clarifying this issue. In my view, this is a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u53	The question remains, of course, who is to blame for this delay. Maybe it's an idea the Secretary of State himself is answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u54	I note that this parliamentary debate has taken longer. Who's to blame? I've always said it was a good idea for us to take the time. If there's a lot of questions in the First Chamber, we shouldn't rush it, we should take a little longer. I believe that we have done so in recent weeks, but we are slowly but surely coming to the point where the positions are clear and a ruling from the First Chamber can be requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u55	I'm going to follow the order of the file that's here. Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u56	I actually hear the Secretary of State say: we are going to pass the law first, and what happens after that is a matter of trust. What does the Secretary of State base that trust on? Here in the house sings around that the Secretary of State would have said that there are already 40 seats inside. Did the Secretary of State really say that? Isn't there a mockery here, including for the people in the gallery? Does it make sense to continue this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u57	I don't remember that statement. But, of course, I am speaking with different groups to see if my line can count on support. Then eventually everything comes together in a debate. I do not know whether the commitments I make here are clear enough for everyone, so that everyone can say yes to them. I would like to make a number of commitments later, because I have not yet been able to finish the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u58	Briefly, Mrs Teunissen, followed by Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Sent. Then I will give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue his speech and to continue his commitments to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u59	That's a very good idea. It seems to me much more convenient that we get this clarification, that it is also becoming transparent and that the discussions that have taken place recently are transparent to the public. Then why not just make a new proposal with clear agreements to the two chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u60	I do not think it is necessary to come up with a whole new proposal, because the bill is there and it is as it is. There will be an addition to this when it comes to appointments. I can put it in black and white so that you can make a good judgment on that. The supplement clarifies the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. I can also put it in black and white, so that you can find something of it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u61	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u62	It's a good thing that supplement comes in black and white. But is she also public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u63	Of course. I'm sending that letter to the First Chamber, and that letter is public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u64	If I understand correctly, the Secretary of State says: there will soon be, subject to the votes that are still taking place, two new effects of laws, one for the RPO, which will have to be completed even further on the basis of the framework now in force in the Media Act and one that will make sure that the changes that this Chamber wants are actually implemented through the Second Chamber. I hope that will be two separate routes. This Chamber has previously adopted a motion calling for the prevention of all kinds of subjects being tied together, making it difficult to assess the whole issue. Actually, we're in a situation like this right now. I do make an urgent appeal to the Secretary of State to make two transparent, distinct legislative pathways in all coherence, so that the House of Representatives, but certainly this Chamber, can judge them both on their own merits. Then we will not find ourselves again in a situation where parts have to be postponed or, on the contrary, should not be postponed and so on. I would almost say: a cry of hearts to regulate it with clarity, clarity and transparency, so that the Chambers can assess both proposals on their merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u65	The changes I have just listed do not want to burden me with all kinds of other matters that still need to be settled. I will do that in a very concise legislative proposal, which is also necessary if we are to move quickly. Then it shouldn't be too complicated. I can join you in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u66	I've heard the Secretary of State say something in a subtle way that worries me. His starting point seems to be to minimise regional programming. Maybe he will come to talk about this, because I have asked him to make sure that high-quality and independent journalism is maintained in the region. Is he gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u67	Oh, yeah. I still have a whole block across the region. I will also go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u68	I now give you the opportunity to move forward. I would ask Members to be piano, piano with interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u69	I'm going back to the three-stroke I was working on, namely some adjustments that I'm taking into account in a supplementary bill. We had remained in the relationship between NPO and broadcasters, the law and the letter that follows. The Party for Animals asked about the network and genre coordinators. They are part of the NPO, so that they are always kept to the law. I assume they were also kept to the letter, because it was signed by the NPO. Net and genre coordinators work under their mandate. The letter becomes part of the coordination rules. This means that if the parties do not comply with the terms of the letter or the law, appeals and objections are open to the broadcasters. Fortunately, this is hardly the case in practice. For the past two years, it's only been once or twice. Of course, it is not the intention to judge the entire programming process, but it is good that there is an opportunity for appeal and objection, so that the law and the agreements in regulations can actually be enforced. The letter, in conjunction with my proposal to supplement the law, provides clarity on how agreements with external parties are reached. At the moment the agreements are in place and the choice has been made that a broadcaster will make the program, the stick will be transferred and the NPO will not interfere with this anymore. Afterwards, so after broadcasting a programme, this in response to a question from Mr Atsma, there can then be a discussion in the various editorial groups involved in broadcasting and NPO. That is mentioned in the letter. There's a motion from the CDA. That motion is also about the relationship between broadcasters and the NPO, but it is actually going one step further. The motion calls not only for a framework of the tasks of the NPO, which I now propose should be incorporated into the law, but also for an absoluteisation of the freedom and space of broadcasters, without any form of control. That goes against the purpose of this bill. For example, the NPO is given the power to retrieve proposals from external parties, so that the pluralism and diversity of programming can be enhanced. If agreements have been made between NPO and broadcasters on network profiles, it is up to the broadcaster to comply with these agreements. So that's always about the interplay between those two. The motion also goes beyond what the broadcasters and the NPO have agreed together in a letter, I have to say. That's why I advise against this motion. Nevertheless, I have the impression that this concreteisation in the law, which I feel is widely supported, can also remove some of the CDA's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u70	Is it very urgent, Mr Atsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u71	Yes. I was approached by the Secretary of State. In this case, can I ask him for a few clarifications? He's talking about an absolute. Can the Secretary of State indicate where that is in the motion? Does he have a problem with the operative part of the motion? Because if I have listened carefully to Mr Bikker from the Christian Union this morning, she has actually set exactly the same thing. She asked, in fact, for a novelle. Where's the difference? What does the Secretary of State think of the operative part? Then let's leave the considerations aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u72	My problem lies partly in the considerations in which all kinds of assumptions are made, which then have effects on the operative part. We read that, and everything before that. It says that broadcasters are given every opportunity to produce and broadcast programmes. While, precisely with this bill, also in the implementation of the agreements in the law and in the letter from the NPO and the broadcasters, we aim to work together, each on its own responsibility, the NPO and the broadcasters. The motion is really asking for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u73	I shall now put to the Chamber a motion for a resolution which has been amended and which deletes recitals one and two and deletes the word 'all' in the operative part. I'd like to ask the chairman to read the motion. I shall now submit the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u74	And the rest of the story stands? You were going to delete considerations, weren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u75	Yes, the recital...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u76	Well, then it's gonna be another motion. We'll let it work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u77	I'd like to go back. I have heard the Secretary of State make a good commitment on how he envisages the legal framework. But with Mr Atsma's question, I heard the Secretary of State now say that it is about recording the interplay. We have just said, in reply to Mr Lintmeijer's question, that the law is paramount and that the rules of the game apply. I share that heartfeltly. The law should provide that the legal framework for the steering role of the NPO is in order, so that we do not have a discussion about it, and that Article 2.88 is without prejudice to broadcasters in that steering task. Before we start all over again with where we once were, I hope the Secretary of State can confirm this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u78	I do not have a word to add, but that is without prejudice to the fact that what Mr Atsma is asking for in his operative part really goes a step further than that. My problem is not so much in the first two recitals, but in the third recital, which implies a huge contradiction. That brings me to the third point. I have already said something about appointments and the relationship between the NPO and the broadcasters. The third point is the public involvement by the NPO. I think it is important that the NPO should engage with the public as a whole, in addition to public involvement by broadcasters, who, of course, already traditionally have this involvement as member organisations. Broadcasts currently involve their members, viewers and listeners from their mission and identity. That is and remains very important, and that is the basis of the order. In the current legislative proposal, the NPO is given the additional task of involving the entire public. Not everyone is a member of a network. The bill leaves the way in which the NPO gives effect to this task entirely free. The Court expressed its concern whether it ensured that the public is actually involved and whether a representative reflection of society is being sought. I believe that Mr Lintmeijer has done the most impregnant thing in his speech. To ensure this, I am willing to give the NPO the explicit task of organising a representative public representation in the law. The way in which the NPO organises this public representation can be diverse. We need to give the NPO the space to experiment. For example, there are public panels that provide a direct response to programming and policy. You can also think of public surveys and social media. In addition, I hear the Chamber say that it is important that there is direct contact between viewers and listeners and the NPO. This is why the NPO is given the task of setting up a representative social advisory council in the Media Act. The advantage of such a social advisory board is that it will also give its views on the profiles of future members of the supervisory board. That's what the circle's actually round about. I come to the conclusion of this first block. I have already said a few things about how I want it to come back to the Chamber, with a letter, in black and white, so that the Chamber has it before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u79	Then that letter must be there Friday before noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u80	Of course. Then I'll go deeper into this law. I have just heard what the spokesmen have said and the Chamber has heard that I want to make a number of changes to the appointment procedures. In my view, that is what we have done well for the future. In response to Mr Schnabel's first term, I would like to give a positive answer to his question as to whether I can better guarantee the independence of the public media. I think this is important. Frankly, I regret the image created by the appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the NPO, all the more so because I really do not think that this picture is consistent with how it actually went. The procedure has been transparent and independent. In my view, the appointment is compatible with the Media Act. At the same time, I believe that this should also be clear in the future. That is why, in the exploration I have carried out, I will also ask how the legal frameworks can be clarified. Then Mrs Sent's question is still relevant: can Mr Bruins now function independently and with authority? My answer to that is a full "yes." I fully vouch for that, too. I believe that the procedure has gone well both procedurally and legally. The NPO and the Supervisory Board are remote. When we look at the profiles of Mr Bruins as chairman, but also at those of the overall supervisory board, I have full confidence in the competences of these members. Mrs Gerkens is right that a WOB request has been made concerning the nomination of the Supervisory Board of the NPO. We are going to make a proper decision on that, as is the case with every WOB request. That decision will then be published publicly and published on national government.nl, so that everyone can learn about it. Then I get to the point of life review. I agree with the Chamber that philosophical media provision is and remains of great importance in national public service broadcasting. I have heard very explicitly Mr Schalk, Mr Lintmeijer, but above all Mrs Bikker, in their contributions in the second term. The offer contributes to the task of reflecting pluralism in our society. It is important that there is room and budget for that programming. This applies not only to the offer first made by the so-called 2.42 broadcasters, but also, as far as I am concerned, to wider philosophical programming. We have already agreed that the NPO has earmarked 12 million for philosophical programming; that is what we set out in a performance agreement. The motion tabled by Mrs Bikker goes a little further, because it also deals with wider programming in the area of philosophy. I have no problem with that, and I would like to leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u81	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for these commitments. We have a good use in this house that if the Secretary of State says you're going to do this, you're going to have a motion indicating how you're going to handle it. I would also like to explain to the other Members why I am making two requests, including those 12 million. That's what Hilversum is all about. The Secretary of State has promised it a number of times, but I would very much like to see it pronounced in a motion. I would therefore like to thank him for his commitment, but I also hope that this will not cause any more fuss in practice and that programmes will be made again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u82	I hope so, too. Nor do I have the impression that the Hilversum thing is now coming from the States-General or the discussions we have had in the Lower House or here in the Upper Chamber. Maybe there's been some confusion in Hilversum. With this motion, we can remove that ambiguity. I can also include both elements in the performance agreement. Then I come to the programme statute. Mrs Sent and Mr Lintmeijer asked questions about this. I have already indicated that the NPO has promised to come up with such a statute. I agree with the Chamber to make an appointment with the NPO in the performance agreements. If the public service broadcaster has drawn up the programme statute, I can also send it to the Chamber. The aim of such a statute is to clarify how the roles, powers and responsibilities of the NPO will be developed in daily practice. I can inform the Chamber that the NPO is currently working on this and that they have already had talks with the Dutch Association of Journalists. They will also talk to programme makers and involve the editors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u83	I actually wanted to hear that last sentence from the Secretary of State. He preached to my question before I asked him, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u84	That's cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u85	This is so constructive. Mrs Sent asked about transparency about costs. She once again asked me if the Media Act provides a sufficient basis for transparency on the costs of programming if the Court so requests. We have already had an exchange of views on the interpretation of the articles she mentioned in the first term. I promised at that time that I would double-check the legal reasoning in the proposal that I will send to the House of Representatives. I can also have independent legal experts do this so that, before I make agreements with the NPO on transparency and these are laid down in a protocol, I have understood the whole reasoning "I have understood the House of Representatives on this point, because we have also had a discussion about this and the frameworks for the agreements can also be submitted to both Chambers. In that sense, I can say to the Labour Party: yes, you can read my commitment in line with the withdrawn amendment tabled by Mr Heerma and Mr Segers. I have promised to forward my proposal to the House of Representatives. In my opinion, Mrs Sent's contribution contained the hint "that's nice such a commitment, but could you also legally guarantee that?" I want to take a serious look at that. Whether that should be done via an AMvB or otherwise, we still need to look at it, because such a financial manual in form is something else than an AMvB. In essence, however, I think it is a good suggestion that it should be put forward or at least always submitted to the House of Representatives, so that there can be a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u86	Can we then see that suggestion in the adjustments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u87	Exactly. Yes. Mr Lintmeijer has asked a number of questions about an important role for public service broadcasting. He asked what role public service broadcasting has in stimulating innovation and supporting young creators. I heard concerns about scaling up and the major international players that dominate the media offerings. I believe that there should always be room for young creators, innovation and talent development in public service broadcasting and that this should also be ensured. The legislative proposal explicitly includes the promotion of innovation in the public service remit. It didn't say that at first, but if there's anything public, this is it. In addition, promoting talent development is a legal task of public service broadcasting. This is in line with the amendment tabled by Mr Mohandis during the debate in the House of Representatives. For talent development and young individual creators, money will soon be available from the NPO fund, as is currently the case with the Media Fund. That will cease to exist, but that function will be fulfilled in the future by the NPO. I would like to stress that the public media system is being opened at the same time for everyone with a good idea. This, too, will lead to more innovations and young talented creators can also subscribe to them. All these possibilities offer options and space. The NPO has now set up a number of interesting programs, such as 3Lab and NPO Campus, which try to get young talents close to public service broadcasting and to train and train further. That's interesting. I come to Mr Schalk's contribution. He asked again about the Viewing Pointer that you could also apply to advertisements. Consultations between the Star and the NICAM have been launched to investigate how the Star can fit in with the NICAM Viewer. I expect to be able to inform the Chamber about this well before the summer. In my view, at least it is completely clear what the intention is. My last block is about the region. In the case of regional broadcasters, as in the case of national broadcasters, they have a joint task to develop for the future and to meet a number of challenges. Think of rapid changes in the media landscape, also regionally serving the viewers and listeners, the important watchdog function of journalism in the region and taking care of the cuts in the regional budget. I have great appreciation for ROOS' plan. I would like to make every effort to help ROOS and the broadcasters to actually implement that plan. The legislative proposal now before us will help regional broadcasters to get to work quickly on the design of regional public service broadcasting in the future. This will enable the 17 million savings to be achieved in a responsible way, as the ROOS own calculations in the plan also indicate. The regional broadcasters themselves have the lead in implementing the cuts. In this sense, ROOS and the individual broadcasters are at stake. The organisation of regional broadcasting must be more effective and efficient. This also means that there are a number of things that the viewer and listener do not immediately notice. Not thirteen directors with back offices, but more cooperation and more common policies. The task of the region is to avoid programming in terms of budget cuts. According to ROOS, this is and will remain possible, especially if we help broadcasters with a delay of three months, including in the financial field. An important starting point is that there must be a full and independent journalistic provision in each region, even after the austerity. I think it is important to stress that it is the responsibility of ROOS and the thirteen broadcasters to ensure that that change is now being made, because only under that condition can we be sure that it will affect programming as little as possible. Mrs. Sent asked if I could guarantee that. It is my commitment that it comes to this, but whether it is achieved is really up to these thirteen broadcasters. There is a fine plan that says that it can be done, but the broadcasters must also have the will to be enthusiastic and enthusiastic about it. If that does not happen, then we have another story, but I think that a quick adoption of this bill can help to get things moving quickly in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u88	The Secretary of State says we have another story if we can't. Then we do have a different story, but where do we end up? I would like to see that question answered. What's the consequence if it turns out it doesn't work? I would also like to draw attention to the following. We're talking about programming. It's got to stay in place. In many cases, this also means that material provisions must be maintained. Programming now also includes programmes that can only be implemented with certain material provisions. If we are to centralise too much under pressure from the cuts, then it is possible that the material infrastructure is not enough precisely to maintain the programming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u89	A future regional public service broadcaster will also need to look closely at what is needed to accommodate individual broadcasters in terms of technology and other services. This is without prejudice to the fact that broadcasters can do much more in common. Not every broadcaster has to reinvent the wheel itself. If you want to work with interactive Internet services, you can ask yourself whether it is very useful that every channel does so itself with a slightly different technique and whether it is not possible to do so more efficiently together. The draft law, and indeed the plans of ROOS, aims to combine the benefits. The aim is to organise a good backbone, a good shared service and a good commonality with independent editors in the province to ensure high-quality regional journalism. That's the ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u90	I would like to comment briefly on this. We intend to. This intention is not wrong in itself. Of course, there's a lot to be done. A lot can happen about it, too. I am concerned, however, with the following, which is what Mrs Sent was asking for in the first instance. If holes start to fall, what do we do? Do we keep an eye on it and fix it? Or are we just gonna let it go? Are we making plans for that now or are we leaving it open in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u91	With a previous bill, the First Chamber has already made the cuts for regional broadcasting. By the way, they're softened. After the autumn agreement, they were roughly halved, but there remains a cut of 17 million. It is now up to the politicians, our task, to ensure that we give regional broadcasters the tools to cope with these cuts in a good way. They've made a very nice plan for that. With the calculations, they show that they can carry out the cuts for a long time, but we have to give them the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u92	To get it right: these cuts can only be made later, and they are then entirely proportional to the moment they enter into. There's 17 million now. This month's not gonna work. So it's a quarter off. Am I that sharp? I'm gonna ask you this because if we don't, we're gonna get our hands on that again. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u93	Yeah, you got that right. There was a discussion this morning, in my opinion, sparked by Mrs Sent and Mr Lintmeijer: can you not make "what is reasonably possible" "what is reasonably necessary"? Yes. If you delay for three months, you'll get three twelfths off the cut. I'd like to meet them in that. Then the question is, how do we do it in a good way? It will eventually lead to higher friction costs. My suspicion is that the region will be able to make a very good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u94	It is also our job as politicians to monitor whether there are unintended consequences of decisions we take and to draw conclusions from the action of those consequences. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? And what consequences does he have for the programming of regional broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u95	I fully agree with Mrs Sent that we should keep our finger on the pulse and see whether the cuts in regional broadcasting are being properly implemented. However, I would also like to be very careful to see that, if these cuts are not made, the 17 million-dollar policy will be taken care of. This is, of course, a wrong signal to all the regional broadcasters who have now said that they are participating in this plan. They could say: well, we don't have to realize the plan, because politics will solve our problem. That is why I place that responsibility so emphatically there. But of course we'll keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u96	The Secretary of State said, "My guess is we're gonna come out okay." But the basis is that he will cut down in proportion, so he will cut off a quarter of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u97	Yes. Those three months, that's clear to me. In fact, if there are other aspects that make it a little bit more than that, then I want to look at them in all reasonable terms. I think it is important that the regional plan is properly implemented. Then maybe you're talking about slightly higher incidental friction costs. If that can ensure for the future that there is a good provision, with a good backbone and independent local media, then I don't mind adding a little more to it. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are going to solve at least that quarter, but if there are other things, I am prepared to look at them with a positive look, but without passing out any kind of blank cheques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u98	This is in line with my next question. That last sentence of the Secretary of State gives rise to the expectation that he would have complimented ROOS on the Secretary of State for him, and I would like to join in with that in order to help him. ROOS has already said to the works councils and the editorial boards that the cuts will in any case be at the expense of the content of the programmes. The number of hours no longer corresponds to the budget available. How are we gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u99	When I look at the calculations made by ROOS, I note that with a combination of two measures, namely good shared services and the formation of a number of regional clusters, they should be able to come a long way. This delay has led to a number of setbacks. I would like to look in good consultation with ROOS at how we can also financially compensate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u100	The setbacks because of the delay, we are already out of it: the Secretary of State pays for that. But ROOS has said to the editorial boards and the works councils that in any case the cuts are at the expense of the content. Are we gonna fix that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u101	I'd like to turn it around. I hear what Mr Atsma is saying. However, if the ROOS plan is not implemented, the consequences for programming and for viewers and listeners will be much greater. That is precisely why we need to speed it up and stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u102	Finally, Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u103	For this, the Secretary of State has just said that ROOS' plan is good. That is fine, but ROOS itself says that the austerity operation is at the expense of its content. It's one of two: whether that's true, or the Secretary of State's story is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u104	With permission: it is not one or the other. We have asked ROOS to come up with a good proposal, a proposal that spares viewers and listeners as much as possible. I have just indicated that it is the responsibility of the regions to ensure that it is implemented as effectively as possible, so that it affects programming as little as possible. But I'm gonna turn it around if you don't do it, then that cut still stands. It will then be distributed by pound by pound among the various regional broadcasters. The implications for programming will then be many times greater. That's why I still believe in the ROOS plan. That is the best way to spare the viewers and listeners as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u105	There's a metaphor coming to me. The Secretary of State cut deep into the fingers of the regional broadcasters a while ago with a cleaver. They're bleeding now. ROOS said, "You know what, we'll splint it and maybe it'll be okay." The Secretary of State says we need to splint it very quickly, when we all know that splints aren't gonna help if you need to stitch things up. The Secretary of State therefore proposes to solve something that is already bad, then in an even worse way as much as possible. I find that striking. Indeed, he says that this part must continue quickly. And I am taking the national part out of the Media Act, because then we can continue with the regional part, which the Chamber feels is not moving in the right direction. That is why I wonder why the Secretary of State is in such a hurry with the regional section. There are still a lot of shortcomings in maintaining an independent, critical, journalistic role for regional broadcasting, which, according to various organisations, we will soon need very much, given the civic participation that this cabinet wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u106	I would like to try to reassure Mrs Gerkens. Independent editorial units at county level will not disappear. That's what we want to maintain. We cherish them, too. With the ROOS plan, the cuts are made in very different areas. Mrs Gerkens, however, has a point. It also has to do with the fact that two years ago we had to cut back on many areas. A very large part of this was taken over by the national public service broadcaster. Another part was for the regional public broadcasters. At that time, we asked the regional public broadcasters to come up with a plan to deal with this austerity in the most responsible and sensible way possible. That's the plan ahead of us now. I would very much like to align that plan with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u107	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u108	I understand that's what the Secretary of State wants, but this plan is disastrous. It doesn't make any sense what the Secretary of State says. If you're going to say to a reporter from such a regional broadcaster "except to prepare the journalistic interview, you have to run the camera, do the sound and then edit it," you know that it's at the expense of something. This is therefore at the expense of the regional public journalistic task. That's because of the cuts. I'm glad the Secretary of State admits that. But then I would think: perhaps the Secretary of State should come up with another plan, namely a plan to solve the financial pain. 'Cause this is just going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u109	I am looking at this plan with different eyes, I have to say. Mrs Gerkens and I disagree. If it were really a disastrous plan, the presidents and directors of all these regional broadcasters would not have gone along with it. That is why I have every confidence in this. A number of questions have been asked about the concessions. One concession for regional broadcasting, is that really necessary? The answer to this is: yes, it is necessary to be able to make common policies later. In the case of regional broadcasters, as in the case of national broadcasting, it is important for them to be able to face up to the challenge of the future together if they also face up to some of the major changes together, if they think more together about how to serve the viewers and listeners and if they think together about how to cope with the cuts. The future plan of ROOS is a good basis for this. Moreover, the national public service broadcaster also has one concession, and that includes individual broadcasters each with an independent role. Those two things can exist together. I do agree with the CDA that every province should have a regional network. For this reason, at least one regional editorial board per province remains in existence and these editors retain their own regional channels for both radio and television. That is in line with the Heerma/Segers motion, which has achieved a majority in the House of Representatives. In addition, there may still be two regional broadcasters in the province of South Holland. A question has also been asked about AT5 and RTV Noord-Holland. I have promised to come forward with a response during this period of government, partly on the basis of the research carried out by the Media Commissioner on the funding of local broadcasters by municipalities. Mr Lintmeijer specifically asked about this. I will, of course, respond to this and consider what measures are needed to strengthen the local function, if necessary, in a regional context. The starting point of the law is editorial independence in the region. It is also laid down by law, including a statutory drafting statute. That is, moreover, already mandatory. Within the budgetary framework, regional broadcasting will continue to make its programmes completely independent, with the equipment and equipment needed for this, I say to Mrs Sent. Each region also has its own media policy committee for its relations with the region. On the recommendation of the editor-in-chief, he determines the media offer for the regional editor, so that there is a good local connection. I mention one province in particular, and I look at Mr Ten Hoeve. Because of the special task and position of the Frisian as second state language, a number of additional safeguards are included in the next legislative proposal. I can be brief. In my view, the safeguards which Mr Ten Hoeve mentions in his motion on letter K, with a reinforced media council which also has a number of powers, are good contours for the further elaboration of both the legislative proposal and the new administrative arrangements. I would therefore like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I realise that regional broadcasters and their staff are concerned about possible delays in the legislative proposal before us. That is why it is important to clarify quickly. I will also speed up the next legislative proposal, as Mrs Bikker asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u110	I would like to return to Mr Ten Hoeve's motion. The Secretary of State embraces the motion and I understand why he does. I have followed the discussion between the Secretary of State and Mr Ten Hoeve a bit in recent days and it would have been strange if he had not. However, can the Secretary of State indicate exactly what the pluses are for Omrop Fryslân compared to the other regional broadcasters? The Secretary of State has already said that each regional broadcaster retains editorial independence and independence. I would like to know what are the pluses on the basis of the motion that puts Omrop Fryslân on hold. I understand that there is no administrative agreement yet, but that aside. That will undoubtedly be the case, but I am also curious to see what added value can be gained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u111	For Friesland, of course, we have a legal task in terms of language and culture. That also justifies doing some extras for Omrop Fryslân. The motion lists those extras very well in my view. It concerns, for example, the right of consent when appointing the editor-in-chief of Omrop Fryslân. This is something that will apply specifically to this broadcaster and not to the other broadcasters. It is also a question of the heavy advisory right for the budgets; that is what I read from the motion for a resolution. It is also an advisory right for the appointment of the director in the RPO who has Friesland in his portfolio. Those are all powers that are specifically regulated for Friesland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u112	But then it is good to hear a further clarification. What exactly does this budget law mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u113	This means that we are going to ensure the use of resources specifically for the Frisian language and culture that there is a heavy advisory right for the use of resources from the media budget on top of that, should the RPO wish to make changes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u114	Finally, Mr Atsma, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u115	But there is already earmarked money because of the position of the Frisian as second state language, so nothing changes, I would almost say. So what additional possibilities do we get through this passage in the motion? You've thought about it yourself, so I'm sure you have an idea. It is also useful for the province to know, in the context of the administrative agreement to be concluded with you, what it can count on from your point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u116	There are specific resources associated with language and culture. They've already been earmarked for Friesland. In addition, however, there is a total media budget, which is not earmarked. This media council is now given a very important right of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u117	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to quickly come forward with a substantive regional public broadcasting law. Let me just call it that; perhaps the Secretary of State has a shorter term, which is less good at scrabble. That's good, but that law still needs to come. I have the next concern. What if something doesn't work out for some reason that I'm not going to fill out right now? Then what is the value of the law we have now? For example, we may be dealing with a supervisory board, but what is it about? How does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u118	This is, of course, the prelude to the full implementation of ROOS' plans, which were also shared with the House of Representatives and described in the letter. In order to prepare them properly, we now need an entity that can do a number of things. That's why we're keeping it small now. This will then result in a somewhat larger legislative proposal, which I hope will be widely supported. I get the impression, also from the discussions I had in the House of Representatives, that this broad consensus could also be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u119	If I understand correctly, it is not necessarily that small entity that can make all these cuts, but that added value is also included in the next legislative proposal. How does the Secretary of State weigh this, now that everything is somewhat delayed? That other bill has to be there to make those cuts happen, don't it? I'm asking him to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u120	Mrs Bikker is certainly right about that. It is not settled, but preparations can be made. There will also be an additional legislative proposal to work out the RPO's layout and suspension in more detail. In the combination of these two, the ROOS plan can therefore be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u121	Finally, and briefly, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u122	That also means looking at the cuts, in all reasonable terms. If there is any delay with the other proposal, will these cuts be reduced proportionately on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u123	Let us not preach too much in advance on even more delay. This is also the case with the pace being set from our point of view. I attach great importance to careful treatment in Parliament, both on the other side and here. In this respect too, it would be nice to have that law before the end of the year, so that we can start from 1 January, or at least take into account the three months delay it has caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u124	To be clear, it is also a worst case scenario if the second stage of this legislation is not achieved, as Mrs Bikker mentioned. The consequence is that the regional broadcasters will continue to exist as independent entities. That doesn't change anything. Well, then, in principle, the cuts will continue. Since it is not possible to deal with these cuts in a decent way, you will take care of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u125	That last conclusion by Mr Ten Hoeve is going a little too fast for me. It's all about adopting that bill. If this is not the case, regional broadcasters will have to look at how they achieve this financial task in a different way. It won't be gone unless the next bill is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u126	Can the Secretary of State explain to what extent the supplementary bill, which is still coming, is needed to achieve the cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u127	That's an integral part of the ROOS plan. That will have to be achieved. Then the next bill will also have to be passed. Of course, we are going to sit around the table with the IPO, with ROOS and with various other stakeholders, to see if we can do this in a good way, which can count on broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u128	But is it still credible, after the adoption of that bill, to realise the cuts that regional broadcasters are facing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u129	Minus the delay of three months that has occurred now, I think this should be possible. In the original planning was that they would get a full year for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u130	Madam President. I did not get mixed up in traffic, but I do need a little insight into the procedure in the coming period. This is about a piece of legislation on the RPO. We have received a number of commitments. The Secretary of State has announced that there will be legislative changes. Mr Lintmeijer has rightly asked for them to be kept as flexible and clear as possible. How many do we get now? Could the Secretary of State see to it next week that we've got what we're getting? What's the time order of it? Are we going to introduce all these different legislative proposals in stages or can we say: now it's about the RPO and the rest will come later? I have another question that is linked to it. The Secretary of State is looking for support. Soon the RPO will be operational, but the NPO and the broadcasters will have some time. Now the NPO, together with a number of broadcasters, sent a letter on 28 February. Does the Secretary of State see a role for himself to add to the additional legislative proposals in the coming period those broadcasters who had not joined them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u131	Maybe I can cut up these questions. The first is what legislative proposals are coming up. I can take that into account in the letter, as can Mr Lintmeijer's remark to avoid putting together the regional legislative proposal and the proposed addition to the legislative proposal, because that would confuse things too much. That's going to be two separate trajectories. I think we should take a little more time for the region. The first is a small part that can be faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u132	You are now saying that the first is a small part, but those were also different parts. I understood that Mr Lintmeijer meant to ask for what the Secretary of State wants to arrange for the governance side and for the public representation and so on. At some point we don't know exactly which one we all have. Or did I misunderstand Mr Lintmeijer just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u133	Here comes Mr. Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u134	That's almost entrapment. I intended not to mix the bill that will regulate the elaboration of the RPO with the commitments made by the Secretary of State for Repair Law. This is my word for it in order to meet the wishes of this Chamber. I did not intend to make separate legislative proposals on all those separate parts on which the Secretary of State makes commitments. I think it would be useful to keep that in one part, but I would like to get rid of the mix between RPO and NPO, because it has not facilitated the debate here either. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u135	Then I have understood Mr Lintmeijer correctly and then my explanation and my commitment to Mr Schalk is correct. The second question was whether we should sit still in the meantime. I will, of course, do my utmost to include those broadcasters who did not participate in the letter in the agreements. The law will apply to everyone, whether you signed with the letter or not. I'd like to look at the reasons why I didn't sign with you. That doesn't have to mean they're against the arrangements in that letter. Perhaps some broadcasters have considered waiting for this bill to be dealt with in the Chamber. Perhaps there too there is willingness to participate, as soon as it is clear that we are moving forward with this law. Then Mrs Teunissen's motion remains. It's also about the region. It calls on the government to make every effort not to dwindle regional broadcasters if the RPO fails. I must advise against this motion, also because it is far too broad in my view. Of course, we are not here to dwindle regional broadcasters, but I hope that the Chamber will agree to this bill in due course. Then this motion is no longer relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u136	I understand the Secretary of State has finished his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u137	Mr. Chairman. I have one question for the Secretary of State and one general comment. Mrs Teunissen asked that the process that has taken place over the past few weeks be documented in order to be transparent about it. That's what I asked in my contribution. I'm asking the Secretary of State if he can indicate what he's done effectively. Did he write any motions? What promises did he make? What statements and such have been made? I would like to have an overview of that. I understand the Secretary of State is putting all this on paper. It's a big deal. I have just seen some confusion with Mr Schalk. We're all a little confused. I still have to look forward to it all, but I'm not closing in on applying for a third term as soon as the letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u138	Mr. Chairman. We wholeheartedly support a possible third deadline. As for my motion, it's about us weighing tonight. It is important to take into account the possible consequences if this law does not pass. Apart from the regional broadcasters, there are other reasons why this law would not make it tonight. Then it is good to have a clear picture of what the Secretary of State will do if this law does not pass. There is a lot at stake for regional broadcasters, if that happens tonight. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what his plan is for regional broadcasting. So I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what his plan is for the regional broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u139	Do you want to hear it now or can it be included in the letter, Mrs Teunissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u140	I think it's good to get this clear on paper. If the Secretary of State can take it with him in his letter to the Chamber, I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u141	Two questions have been asked. The first question is whether we want to put on paper what happens if all this doesn't work out. I understand that question, but I want to make every effort to make sure that the bill does. In my view, it would be quite possible, with a number of additions, for a majority of this Chamber to say yes to that. I'll put that on paper. I'll give it to the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u142	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u143	I understand the Secretary of State wants the law to work, but I ask for a safety net for regional broadcasters. I want that safety net clearly worked out in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u144	I don't think that safety net is necessary at all. We have already discussed very well in the debate why this bill is needed and what happens if this bill does not come in relation to the cuts. I really don't see any reason to put that back on paper. I would like to put the changes I promised in this debate on paper, including the procedure. That is also my response to Mrs Gerkens' question. I don't think it's necessary to put on paper how the calls went and give information about all the phone calls, e-mails, walk-ins and cups of coffee I've had with this or that. That's the political handiwork. I do not think it is necessary to report on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u145	Briefly on this point, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u146	I don't need to know how many cups of coffee the Secretary of State drank. I'd like to know what he's done effectively. What proposals have been made, have motions been written, etc.?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u147	Again, the result counts. I'll put in black and white what I'm proposing later. I think your room can handle that very well. In any case, it is sufficient to make a final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u148	I have heard the Secretary of State make seemingly contradictory statements. I have heard that the Secretary of State embraces the letter from the NPO and the majority of the broadcasters of 28 February. However, I have also heard him say that the NPO will hand over the stick to the broadcasters, while the letter describes exactly how the NPO and the broadcasters work together in this respect. I want the Secretary of State to confirm that he embraces the content of the letter from the NPO and the majority of the broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u149	I can be very brief about that: I embrace it. I meant to say that the NPO and the broadcasters have different responsibilities and that at some point the responsibility of the NPO ends when it comes to realising programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u150	I have two brief questions on the procedure, in line with what D66 and the Christian Union have said earlier in relation to the role of the House of Representatives. How will the Secretary of State inform the House of Representatives about the agreements he makes with the Upper House? In essence, the House of Representatives is given the role of the First Chamber in the further examination, with the difference that the House of Representatives has the right of amendment. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u151	I will send the House of Representatives a copy of the letter I send to the First Chamber before the end of the week. The route to be followed is that the Lower House will first have to decide on such a proposal before it comes to the Upper House. That's the usual procedure. This brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u152	It is perhaps appropriate to make it clear that, in the light of everything that has been exchanged here this evening, the Secretary of State has, at least, promised to present a comprehensive letter on Friday before 12.00 p.m., which contains both the "normal" commitments and the commitments that a legislative process entails, as well as legislation on the RPO, and which sets out in detail how the procedure should be conducted in the eyes of the Secretary of State. I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to do so in separate blocks, so that everyone knows where he is and what the procedure will be. After all, everything that has gone over the table here tonight is rather complicated. I think it should be. I see everyone nodding a little bit. That letter will be sent on Friday before noon. If I ask anyone to vote on this, then all hands will go up. The answer to that question is yes anyway. The chance that there will be a third term next week is quite high. It's already been requested by Mrs. Gerkens. Mrs Teunissen also put it forward. I also hear Mr Atsma say yes. I would also like to give the floor briefly to Mr Atsma because he wishes to amend his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u153	If there is a third deadline, does that mean that the votes will not take place on Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u154	That depends a little bit on developments. It may be that the letter is such that a lot of spokesmen say it is completely clear. It is also possible that the third deadline should be a very serious third. Moreover, we need to see whether it will be adaptable next week, as there will be general European reflections next week, which will also bring with it a great deal of time. Suppose it's a very serious third term. I cannot imagine that we will vote immediately at the end of the third term. If it really is a serious third term, it seems to me that the following week will be voted on. But it depends on the developments, and in particular on the intelligence of the letter from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u155	The Secretary of State has said that the letter is sent to both chambers. I can well imagine that the House of Representatives, at least a large part of the House of Representatives, also needs to speak about this letter. That might make it a little more complex. I think the Secretary of State has made a great deal of commitments. As far as I am concerned, it will be put on paper as soon as possible. Then we can judge it. But I would like to bring that element to your attention, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u156	I think it is wonderful that you bring that element to our attention, but this bill is now being dealt with here. What the Secretary of State thinks he can write to this Chamber is intended for this Chamber. How he then arranges this with the House of Representatives is not the issue here. It's a different procedure. The Secretary of State will explain in the letter the ordinary commitments, the commitments for which a legislative path is required, further legislation or other legislation for the RPO, the procedure and so on. Whether that is enough for you to think that the House of Representatives will agree or not, is another story. That is not the issue here. The issue here is what the Secretary of State promises to this Chamber, and that is out of the question! Mr Atsma, you will shortly have the opportunity to amend a motion. Then we close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u157	I have indeed indicated that, on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Secretary of State for the first time, I would like to table an amended motion, with its texts. I believe that this reflects the ambition that the Secretary of State himself has and which is close to the ambition that we have expressed. I would like to refer that amended motion to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u158	I assume you're withdrawing your first motion. The amended motion replaces the other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u159	It's always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u160	Yes. Once I have read the motion, the Secretary of State has listened very carefully, and the Secretary of State will have the opportunity to respond to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u161	The Atsma c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the amendment of the Media Act (34264) may have a significant impact on the Dutch public system;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to provide legal guarantees allowing broadcasters to produce and broadcast programmes in accordance with their mission, objectives and/or identity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Atsma, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr Martens, Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u162	Mr. Chairman. In my view, this motion has become completely superfluous, because there is room for that. There is one in the old law, and there will be one in the new law. In my view, this motion adds little to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-13.u163	Thank you. Would you give the motion back to the messenger, because the original signatures are underneath. It's clear now. We are awaiting the Secretary of State's letter this Friday before noon. The chance of a third term next Tuesday is very high.
