ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Bontes first has the floor. I promised him that he could make this point at the start of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The subject I would like to address and on which I would like to ask the Prime Minister is a very painful subject that affects us all deeply. The Prime Minister has already mentioned it in his first block. I would like to move on now because it fits best with the block European and international. It's about the MH17. When the MH17 disaster became known in the summer of 2014, the Prime Minister was very quick to say that he would personally work to ensure that the perpetrators of the attack or disaster would be punished. He said, "The unsubs will not escape their punishment. The bottom stone will come up. I'm going to make a personal commitment to that." He actually attached his fate to it, if that's the way you look at it. Now I saw the Prime Minister recently at Summer Guests. Then he was a lot less sure. He said he can't give guarantees. He turned out a little bit, while at the beginning he made those good promises. He said he'd be committed to punishing the perpetrators. What is the Prime Minister going to do about this terrible file in the six months that remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Bontes that it is really terrible: 196 Dutch victims and 298 victims in total. We saw the memorial again on July 17th. For next Wednesday, it is planned that the prosecution will come forward with further information to the next of kin on where the prosecution is currently standing. We're gonna listen to that very carefully. It doesn't look like this is gonna be the whole end of the picture. We've realized track one, which is getting our people back. Track two was the investigation by the OVV into the circumstances and the cause. It is important that, after these two tracks have been realized, the Public Prosecutor's Office is able to establish a number of things deep in the ground up to five spades. What happened? Who did that? Who are the people? Then we can prosecute those individuals, bring them to justice and impose their legal punishment. That's what it's all about now. It's imperative that the D.A. can do his job. We have to wait for those results. Meanwhile, there's been a meeting in New York this week. I couldn't be there because of the General Reviews, but Bert Koenders replaced me there with the five countries that are part of the Joint Investigation Team. There, Australia, Malaysia, Belgium, the Netherlands and Ukraine have again confirmed that they are shoulder-to-shoulder to get the bottom of the stone, to ensure that the work of their public ministries and the Joint Investigation Team is done as well as possible and not politically influenced. In the meantime, we will have to decide jointly on the mechanism of prosecution in the near future. There are two variants on the table for that. It has been agreed that this decision will be taken as soon as possible. In doing so, the views of the five public ministries working together on what would be best in this respect are important. That is the state of play. Mr Bontes asks what my commitment is. I've made it clear all the time. I have only one purpose, and that is indeed that we will get the people who did it up to water, bring it to justice and bring it to justice. That was my goal on July 17, which was my goal at the first commemoration last year, it was also on July 17 this year and that is it until today. Nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	I am talking about the Prime Minister's personal commitment and the question is: could he not have done more? I am thinking of pushing Russia and Ukraine to get those radar images up. I am thinking of starting a case at ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization), the international aviation organisation, to get things done there. I didn't see that happen. Will the Prime Minister be committed to this in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	I know that the MH17 case is very close to Mr Bontes; that applies to all of us. We have had this discussion before. If the Dutch government were to look for radar images on its own and not at the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to contact the government of other countries themselves to ask "what is the situation, what is the situation?" there is a huge risk that the chances of success will be reduced considerably when the Public Prosecutor's Office comes up with a judgment on who did it and the prosecution of it. This opportunity is getting a lot smaller, because countries could say: the Netherlands or other countries, with other countries or alone, already had a judgment in which direction to look. I have also always said that if the Public Prosecutor's Office could at any time need the support of the Dutch Cabinet to jointly approach Ukraine or Russia or others in the context of its criminal investigation on behalf of the Dutch politics or the five countries, for example to get radar images on the table, we will give them immediately. Then I and Bert Koenders and Ard van der Steur, all the ministers concerned, will do so immediately. However, this can only be done at the request of the Public Prosecutor. I know that Mr Bontes and I differ. He thinks I should be doing that by now. I'm not. I have already explained this once and again, because if we did this, it would mean that there would be political fingerprints on this investigation and that there would be hints in a particular direction. Then the chance of us finally getting the perpetrators to justice and prosecuting them will diminish. I'll do everything I can to minimize that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	Now the next of kin are writing to Russia and Ukraine to get that information on the table. The next of kin are going to the EU to get the truth out with those radar images. Isn't it time for politics, read the Prime Minister, to get involved? Where does it say that there must be a strict separation and that politics should not interfere with this sort of thing? To bring a case to ICAO is a political issue, which is a matter for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr Bontes is right: it is nowhere. He's right. The Dutch government could call Ukraine and ask: what about this, what about it? She could call Russia and so on. Mr Bontes is absolutely right, from a to z, and yet I do not do it because it does have an effect if you do. I have said it before: the plane did not come down in Groningen; it fell down in the midst of an international conflict in a geopolitical hotspot that could not even be reached in the first few days, a conflict that is part of one of the greatest geopolitical conflicts that are currently taking place between Russia and Ukraine. Everything that the Netherlands would now do to appeal to these countries or other countries on parts of their responsibility without this happening at the request of the five countries working together in the Joint Investigation Team, will be interpreted as a political explanation of where the cause should ultimately be sought. After the D.A.'s office is done, the chances of getting those involved to court will be diminished. I have only one goal, namely that we do everything we can to get those bastards, prosecute them and get them justice. I can also say to Mr Bontes once again that if the Public Prosecutor called me and asked me or my colleagues in the cabinet to intervene on certain points, we would do so immediately. The question is then always whether that has already happened, but I can never bless it. But I can assure him that we are prepared to do so. I can also assure him that the D.A. and the chief officer working on it are extremely motivated to bring this matter to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	The next cup is about refugees. A few questions were asked about that. Mr Zijlstra noted that the withdrawal of own nationals is an international obligation on which countries should cooperate. He asked if you could force that, for example by using the different resources we have, such as development aid, when it comes to Africa. Of course, it's always customization. If countries refuse to cooperate, we will not shy away from making a negative link with other instruments of other policy areas. At the moment, we are trying to do this in a positive way. We are very busy talking to many of these countries. The Netherlands is now leading the way with a few other countries. I'm working closely with Italy right now. As we have done before with Germany in relation to Turkey, we are now seeking cooperation with Italy in relation to Africa, for example for Ethiopia and other countries. Bert Koenders and Lilianne Ploumen are very active. Our top diplomats are also working very hard on it, including someone who was in the Chamber not so long ago. It's a strong diplomatic team. I myself am enthusiastic about the politicians, but of course it is about the diplomatic team. We are working hard on it, but if it is necessary and positive incentives do not work, we will not hesitate or hesitate to use negative incentives; no doubt about that. We'll have to try positive first. If we immediately threaten and say "if you don't do this, then do that," this in my experience is not effective and the doors close immediately. As we do with Turkey, we are looking at how to invest in economic development, job creation and border management. That's exactly what we're trying to do with those migration compacts that we're connecting in Africa. They are somewhat similar to the agreements with Turkey, but not entirely, because the differences are large.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	I think it is very wise to first, to put it in popular language, try to reach it with some syrup instead of using the stick immediately. I will also admit that I have not yet read through all the foreign affairs documents in extenso, but I would appreciate it if we could get an overview of how things are going with countries from the government. We can of course continue to say this, but there comes a time when you have to conclude that a country is cooperating fine, very good, thumbs up or that a country continues to train and it is time to make a political decision to use the stick. It often remains with the wording used by the Prime Minister at the moment, but we should ultimately be able to decide whether or not to use a stick. I would like the government to give me a promise that we will get a regular overview of which countries have the greatest problems, how the positive approach is going and where we stand on the escalation ladder towards a hopefully unnecessary stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	I thought that some progress reports were being sent on the state of the art with migration compacts, but I would like to take a look at whether we can tune that even more on the basis of Mr Zijlstra's question. It is a European process and it is important that we address it at European level. My experience from the agreements with Turkey is that if a few countries take the lead very seriously, which works better than when that happens all the way across Europe. Everyone's gonna think someone else is doing it. So let me look at the way in which we can properly report on that progress. With regard to the resettlement of refugees, we are now in the top three. President Barack Obama praised the Netherlands in his speech during the refugee summit for taking the lead in the relocation and resettlement of refugees. The starting point is that the costs of first-year care are, as we know, paid from the ODA funds. The Minister of Finance will soon send the Chamber a letter on asylum expenditure. That brings me to the question about the capacity of the foreign chain. An asylum influx was assumed to be significantly higher than what we are now assuming. For this year, we assumed an asylum influx of 58,000. For next year, we have carefully estimated it at 42,000. This also has consequences for the work at the IND. It does indeed mean that waiting times are reduced to about eight weeks. At the same time, externally hired forces could be phased out. It's very much appreciated that they were there, but the point is that the hired forces can leave. At the same time, there is the effect, which was appointed yesterday by several group chairmen, that the lower influx leads to less need for shelters. I understand, of course, that this will produce effects for the local drivers. They want to be clear about it. This is also the reason why the COA, the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers, is very intensively engaged in discussions with individual municipalities. I'm sorry about the jargon, but it's got to be regional directional tables. It looks at the reception locations and the plans that are still in place, with tailor-made work being discussed. In some municipalities the plans are used for the accommodation of licence holders. There is still a large number of licence holders/status holders that still have to drain from the COA. That number is decreasing, but this has yet to be done. You can then see if the appointments can be converted to that goal. Overall, however, we can see that the influx has fallen enormously. This, of course, has an impact on the need in terms of reception places and staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	Again, I ask whether you are done with this block, which is about migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	Let's see, Mr. Chairman. I have one more case. Mrs Thieme referred to the motion on which she had a discussion yesterday with Mr Zijlstra, who could not immediately remember this motion. This motion is now provided with a letter from the cabinet dated 13 July, in which the motion was put forward. That was the last thing I had to say, Mr. Chairman. Next I come to the issue of security and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Zijlstra would like a copy of the motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yes. The letter was also about whether there is a relationship between instability, which then leads to migration flows, and arms trade, tax policy, trade policy and climate. The letter outlines the Dutch commitment in each of these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	The Prime Minister says that we are ahead of the world when it comes to the resettlement of refugees. I think that says more about the rest of the world than about us. Of the more than 5,000 committed relocations from Greece and Italy, we have now filled only 600. My question to the Prime Minister is how we are going to speed up that process over the last few months of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	We, as Europe, will, of course, have to work on this. The very tricky thing is that you also need Greece for that. The agreements with Turkey include that Turkey is trying to limit crossings. I can do that. You can see that those of thousands a day have fallen to 50, 100, sometimes a peak of 200 a day. Anyway, they're significantly lower numbers. Conversely, after they have gone through a whole process, we could send people back to Turkey. That's where things go wrong, because Greece had higher appeal committees for quite a long time that rejected that kind of thing. They've been reassembled. People who didn't want to have been sent back to Turkey. There's a lot of discussion about that. I was talking about it last Friday with Alexis Tsipras, the Greek Prime Minister. Are there zero, one or two? We didn't quite get out of that, but it's a very small number. So sending that back, that one-on-one program, doesn't work. That really has to do with the Greek side. That's what I told Tsipras. My German colleague and others have also said that Greece will really have to do more. The Netherlands is willing to help in every way, but if these appeal committees do not eventually settle more cases and send people back, then we can send as much support as we want, but then it becomes difficult. The same applies to the registration of people who have been on the Greek mainland for some time. The same applies to Italy, where the hotspots function moderately. Well, that has to do with knowing who you're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	This is a very long answer, especially to questions I have not asked. I was not concerned with the agreement with Turkey, but with the agreement with Greece and Italy on the refugees who were already there. For them we would work on resettlement. We do not see that happening fast enough. A little less than 10% of what we had promised, we have included here in the Netherlands. I am familiar with the problems in Italy and Greece, but I ask the Prime Minister what the Dutch cabinet is doing to ensure that we are going to include them in the Netherlands. The situation in Greece is acute; the Prime Minister and we all know the images. Children must sleep in tents under terrible conditions. Adults have neither perspective nor view. There are riots in refugee camps. We can make a small contribution. My question is: how is the cabinet going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	We have to make a distinction. We have the Greek islands, of which there was no intention of large-scale relocation. It is precisely the intention that people from the Greek islands should go back to Turkey unless they are allowed to stay and go to the Greek mainland for all kinds of reasons. Most of it is intended to go back to Turkey via the one-on-one programme. Mr Klaver refers to the people on the Greek mainland. It is important that these people are registered. That's better. Once again, the Netherlands is in the top three countries that are working on this from the relocation programme, also from the region's resolution. I agree with Mr Klaver that things are going too slowly, but first of all the Greeks are making their move. I can't make it much prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	That is a joint responsibility. What the Prime Minister is doing now and what he's actually doing all the time is describing the situation. But we know it. The question I am asking is what the Netherlands can contribute to ensuring that registration is made easier, so that we can bring the refugees who live there to the Netherlands before the end of the year. That was part of the agreement and we must stick to it. The Prime Minister himself said that if you make a promise, you have to keep it. My question is not how difficult it is, my question is what the Dutch cabinet will do to make it possible. I would just like a concrete answer to that. It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	Quite frankly, I can't take over the Greek government. There are problems in Greek politics. There is political disagreement, including in Parliament and the ruling party, about how this should be handled. I can't just fix that. I also offered Alexis Tsipras every help on Friday. This applies to many other colleagues, such as the Germans and the British. We make available all the help Alexis Tsipras needs in manpower. But the registration of people on the Greek mainland and the settlement of cases on appeal is primarily something in which Greece itself must take the lead. We can then deal with that, but we cannot accept it. We cannot lead the Greek asylum system with an expeditionary force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	That is not what I propose either, but we are getting reports from Greece, including the government, that enough people have already been registered and that they can best be relocated in Europe, including in the Netherlands. But countries like the Netherlands would be very critical of who is being brought here. What are we critical of? Where's the bottleneck? How can we ensure that the people who are now registered are finally brought to the Netherlands? This is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	That's what we do. It's not for nothing that we get a compliment from the American president. We're in the top three. That's the way it's supposed to be. Deal's a deal. The agreement is that we in Europe are working hard on this. I see the frustration, but I cannot accept Greek policy from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	I also have a question about the reception of refugees. The first-year reception of refugees is at the expense of Minister Ploumen's budget. Last year, a motion from the Christian Union was adopted asking the government to ensure that structuralally more money is provided for reception in the region and to separate it from OS programmes. In what way was that motion carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	What we do is the normal system. In line with the international agreements within OECD-DAC, the reception of refugees from OS is financed. It's about the first year of care. For 2017, these costs were estimated at 900 million out of a total ODA budget of 3.9 billion. By the way, this is based on an influx of 58.000 people in 2016 and 42,000 people in 2017 and this could be even lower. Moreover, the additional costs for the reception of asylum seekers in 2017 were largely financed from the multi-annual space and this is in line with last year's Christian Union motion to avoid standing OS programme lines. So we can do that, because we are financing it from the multiannual GNI area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	In any case, it leads to the Netherlands being the first recipient of our own OS-funds and that is, of course, a very curious situation. Indeed, the influx seems to be lower than expected this year. An estimate has also been made for next year, which amounts to 44,000. It may well be that the influx eventually falls lower than estimated. Is the money that is left, to the benefit of the reception of refugees in the region, something that we all value very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	First, let's hope those numbers get lower. This year's numbers aren't so bad. A few weeks ago, we were at 17,000, which is considerably lower than last year. Fortunately, there isn't the peak we saw last year either. Around Prince's Day last year we had that huge walk-up and we don't see it now. It's still unstable, of course. The deal with Turkey is there and I can only say that Turkey is complying with it correctly. I just outlined the problems on the Greek side and that makes it fragile. That is always a problem with this issue, by the way. That is why the cabinet and the European partners have been working on an en- en- en-policy. Syria, South Turkey, the Aegean Sea, that's what the Turkey deal is about, especially the Western Balkans: all these things need to be done. I think it's really complicated to tell you what we're gonna spend a lot of luck on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	I am not asking the Prime Minister if he can predict the influx and tell me whether it stays constant or gets lower or higher. The point is that the money now earmarked for the reception of refugees can be spent either here or in the region. Whether money is left here because the inflow remains lower, we must indeed wait, because it is fragile. I accept all those blows to the arm. We are talking about reception in the region and aid to Libya, Turkey and Jordan, and so I ask whether the money that is earmarked, if any, will be spent on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	At least it will remain within the ODA budget. It is then up to the cabinet, in consultation with the Chamber, to see how we can make the best possible use of that money. So it remains available for ODA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	I share Mr Klaver's frustration. I also feel that it is a frustration of the Prime Minister that the asylum seekers' system is working so poorly that the implementation of all the agreements we have made is not going well. It is true that everything is related to everything, but the big bottleneck is currently in Greece, where 50,000 people on the mainland cannot even get through a simple registration procedure. We talk about this almost weekly, but it may be good to take another step forward in this debate. It is true that the Greek Government must accept more aid, but I think that the European countries should also jointly offer more aid. We both need to be able to take that step. I would almost say that I would like to try with Mr Roemer to allow the Greek Government to rule his sister party Syriaza there. At the same time, I would like the Prime Minister's undertaking that we will go there with portocabins, our good IND officials and a few Greek interpreters, as soon as there is a chance. In any case, we must ensure that those 50,000 people are properly registered there. Then we can assume our responsibilities and remind our European partners of their responsibilities. This is how we must be able to put an end to these distressing situations. Surely that should be possible in this rich continent within a few months? We should be able to arrange this before winter falls, because in Greece too, winter will be. I can almost see Mr Roemer nodding in agreement. So perhaps today we can try to move forward in the interests of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	Anything we can come up with, we have to do. I don't hear any reproach in it, and it doesn't feel that way at all. I can really say that Dijkhoff, Bert Koenders and I are doing everything we can. I am happy to accept such an offer because it is partly a real political issue in Greece. We've offered all the help we can. I've been through a lot of ideas to help with Tsipras: numbers, people there on the spot, registration support and so on. It doesn't yet cycle and that's why I'm happy to accept this offer. Let's see if that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	You make a lot of calls. I notice that every day. I also call back sometimes, and so do your colleagues in Europe. In a public debate like this, too, the representatives of the people and the government of the Netherlands can share the message: we want the problem to be resolved there; we feel responsible for this agreement and therefore for resolving it. Perhaps Mr Roemer will be able to make a few more calls that way. I really have the impression that this can help between fellow party members in Europe; that is how we, as Social Democrats, work. Then we can really do something for the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	It definitely helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	I would like to talk about the same problem, but it concerns the asylum seekers who are now here. Unfortunately, in the past cabinet period, we have given ourselves a number of scares. Secretary of State Teeven and then Secretary of State Dijkhoff announced: there will be many. Then there turned out to be too little shelter and we got to see the panic images in those sports halls. We then introduced that image of the tough drivers. We needed local drivers to take care of that shelter. But now we don't need them again. Yeah, don't need it now, like I said yesterday. This leads to an enormous amount of frustration at the local level. Is it really necessary to shut down all those locations? Mayors also ask the cabinet. Can't we just have a couple of them idling for the moment we need them again? Is it wise to put out all those people and knowledge that need to be rehired immediately? My second question is when does the cabinet carry out the December motion last year to give language lessons from day one, when the asylum seeker is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	In terms of capacity, regional consultation with drivers is important. With Mr Pechtold, I appreciate what was done last year in very difficult circumstances to organise that capacity in a very short time. There have been very difficult moments, but they were ultimately limited that people had to ride at night. It was almost always possible to offer people a place to sleep and then help in the procedure. These regional consultations are now looking at how we deal with the excess capacity. All options are open. I don't want to fill them out of here. In the context of customization, you will see how you can make arrangements for the future. Could your capacity also be used for license holders or otherwise? We are looking at all the variants so that if the numbers were to rise, this would create quite unnecessary shocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	And the second part of my question, about language?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	The cabinet is not in favour of formal language lessons, if people are not yet through the procedure. However, a lot is already happening with volunteering, even when people are still working in a procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	A motion was adopted on 17 December last year: from the moment the asylum seeker is ready he may have been traumatized, but in popular terms it is simply called from day one there is language lessons. There is a majority in the Chamber for this; the motion was adopted on 17 December last year. You can say that the cabinet is not in favour of it, but you simply have to carry out the motion. I would like that to happen and that we should not be on paper for eight months; often it is even longer to wait for that status. Learning and participating in the language provides support. That's what I argued yesterday. I hope that I will be able to deal with the first point in a moment, because I now have to mix two up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	A few things are happening. As I have informed the Chamber, we are not in favour of formal language lessons if people are not yet status holders. We do invest in volunteering, with volunteers who do offer language lessons. So that's what happens. The formal language lessons really depend on getting the status. You want to achieve, also through volunteering, that people who have come here under the most difficult conditions are not empty in the shelter, but can be as active as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	Is the Prime Minister just saying he's not carrying out the motion? I have been waiting for implementation since 17 December. The operative part of this motion is very clear: calls on the government, in the short term, to offer not a word of Chinese language courses, or Syrian............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... "As soon as they are ready" is an attitude from the asylum seeker himself, because it may be traumatized. It's an adopted motion. My colleague has been attracting this for months now. Yesterday we were told by the VVD that there are problems with Somalis and Iraqis and that the labour market needs to be looked at. You know why? Because they don't speak the language! What's wrong with offering those language courses? It's an adopted motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	I refer to the previous answer. We therefore carry it out by investing in volunteers and having volunteers teach language lessons. However, there are formal agreements about when formal language lessons are offered and that is when people really have a status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	Finally? I'm just getting started! I just feel like I'm being sent with a bunch of guys in the reeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	I give you an honest answer, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	No. You may think you're in charge here, Mr. Rutte. This is a motion and that is what we are going to vote on. If 76 Members say yes, you must do what we ask you to do. I'm here on a budget. When it comes to money, you're supposed to move money there. This motion is clear and it has been adopted. This means that it must begin when the asylum seeker is here, in the context of the support and perhaps the distant future. We are now having a whole debate about division, about different worlds, about fundamental rights in this country and about identity. That starts with reading the Constitution and everything and thus using language courses. Then you should not get off with the remark that you can find a volunteer. No, that should just be a good course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr President, I just want to know whether the motion is being carried out or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	Yeah, the way I just outlined it. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	That's not execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	Then we disagree, but that is the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	I shall now give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	Then we'll tighten the motion immediately. Mr President, there was another part. I have to do everything in one go. Now those mayors. Then you stand there as mayor in Geldermalsen or in Hilversum. You're really gonna be working your ass off for one night to get everybody to do it. Council members are threatened. Then that location is there, and then we're gonna scale it down again. Is it really not possible to keep a lot more forward-looking statement that the weather is changing, to keep open locations and thus also to maintain the support in society, in that local society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	We must also be careful that we all immediately have empty locations. So I think we should look for an optimum. I've just been trying to answer that question. That's what the regions are looking at. I don't think we're gonna help by writing that down in detail from here. Mr Pechtold asks me to agree with him that if there are fluctuations, all kinds of emergency situations will suddenly arise. That is being looked at, but now to prescribe in detail that this means that so many locations remain open... that is inherent to this issue. I think it is good news that this influx has fallen so much and that there are far fewer people dying at sea between Turkey and Greece. Of course, that has effects on the number of people coming here and the number of locations you need to keep open. I think Mr Pechtold and I agree on that. I just want to prevent us from going into detail about how many are left open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Chairman. I have another question at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. Yesterday we had a whole debate about the importance of being Dutch and feeling Dutch here. Language is very important. Everyone agrees with that. D66's motion was adopted last year. A few months earlier there was a motion from GroenLinks. That motion is very clear, from day one. We also say that this does not apply to everyone. After all, we all know that refugees and migrants who come here and cannot stay here must be returned as soon as possible. However, there are people who we are sure will be allowed to stay here, for example the group of Syrians. That's the group we've been focusing on. That's how specific we made it from day one. In fact, I would simply like a commitment from the Prime Minister. I don't feel like having to come up with new motions later. It's about the group of people who come here that we're pretty sure can stay. We offer this group the same Dutch language lesson. I think we had an agreement on that and I just want it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	I can only refer to the answer I have just given to Mr Pechtold. I can add that waiting times at the IND are falling. The IND expects waiting periods to be reduced to approximately eight weeks from October. The agreement is that people who have status get language lessons and so on. People who do not yet have status, we can offer language lessons and so on through volunteers, so that at that stage too some things can happen. That's what we're investing extra in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	We have a whole debate here about what the Netherlands is. People who come here as migrants must become part of society as soon as possible. A majority of the Chamber thinks so. A majority of the Chamber believes that people should receive one lesson from day one. Then how is it that the Prime Minister still says "we don't, they have to have the status first"? We're not asking for the impossible. We're not asking people who we know for sure should be sent back to get language lessons. But especially in groups, such as the group of Syrians, of whom more than 90% get a residence permit, you don't have a minute to lose. I regret that the Prime Minister cannot simply make a commitment. Then we should try to force him to implement this in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	I'll help the Prime Minister a little bit by changing the subject. Last year, the PVV Group asked the Prime Minister to stop asylum seekers, to close our borders to them. We have motivated this, among other things, with the high risk that terrorists would come along with the asylum flow. At that time, the cabinet dismissed this as an opportunity that would exist in theory, but is actually very inconvenient, because why would terrorists take that route? After all, they would be registered. I can still hear the Prime Minister say it in the previous General Reviews. Secretary of State Dijkhoff has also often said to my colleague Fritsma that this opportunity is very unacceptable. It's more than a year later now and it just happened. We even read in the threat picture of our terrorist fighters that there has been frequent use of the route of asylum by terrorists. We have seen this so far in Paris, with that terrible attack, carried out by terrorists who have gone along with the asylum flow. What I want to ask the Prime Minister is this. Don't you have great regrets that you haven't taken our advice? How many terrorists could now be walking around in the Netherlands who came along with that asylum influx, because you did not follow our advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	I fully agree with Mr Wilders. Where the country is willing, albeit in manageable numbers, to offer people who are really on the run a chance to get shelter here, you must of course do everything you can to prevent terrorists from being among them. So that's what we're doing. At European level, we are investing in Frontex, the agency that supports Member States. We ourselves have therefore sent a Border Security Team to Chios, which supports the Greek authorities. That's international. We have taken a whole series of measures at national level. I can list them all here, but I can assure Mr Wilders that a whole series of measures have been taken precisely to prevent terrorists from being among the asylum seekers. So I see no difference of opinion. I think we have a common goal. I do not agree with Mr Wilders' approach, but we are in complete agreement on the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	It didn't work. Nor is it an answer to my question. Don't beat around the bush again. Just answer the question. You have not followed our advice and with you all the other Heads of Government in Europe. The European borders were as leaky as a basket. In 2015 alone, we had 21,895 asylum seekers in the Netherlands without papers. Without papers, we didn't know who they were. We have even had the news about an asylum seekers' centre in Nijmegen that terrorists would be among them. So they were here in the Netherlands. You've been warned of that. So you deliberately endangered the Netherlands, even though you were warned. Imagine that tomorrow, as in France, in Paris last year and the year before, terrorist attacks are being carried out, God forbid that it should happen, because you have allowed it to happen. You don't want that on your conscience, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Wilders and I agree on the objective. We disagree about the cure. Its means will not be perfect, apart from all the other objections that it would raise. You can try to close the border completely, but you won't. People will always slip through it. So you have to take all measures, both internationally and nationally, to minimise that risk, and that is what we have done. Wilders and I agree on that. Only, he now wants to give the impression that with his waist, which is completely closing the borders, you have 100% certainty. Even then you don't have one, really. If people want to go through it, they go through it. What we need to achieve is the paradox that in the end the approach of the cabinet is more effective. The whole process, the whole procedure for people reporting for asylum seekers, is effective. We'll follow that procedure. This is precisely how people are judged, both nationally and internationally. Really, Mr Wilders is looking for a contradiction that is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	If I were you, I wouldn't be able to sleep. I sincerely believe that I cannot sleep anymore, because you have not done everything you should do. You have let 21 895 asylum seekers in without or with false papers. Those are figures from your secretary of state himself. So you have brought in tens of thousands of people from whom you do not know who they are, who have been shown to have committed attacks in other countries. So you don't know who brought you in. You didn't do everything! I would be very careful, because we should not think about what happens if one of these people attacks here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	Geert Wilders and I, uh... this is complicated: there's a contradiction that I don't see here, which is keeping this country safe from terrorism. Thousands of policemen, our security services and our foreign chain are working on this every day, at all levels. Mr Wilders also knows that you can never give a 100% guarantee that there will never be an attack here. However, we can, together, Mr Wilders and I, all of us here, give a 100% guarantee that we will do everything we can to prevent this. Then you can have another discussion about the cure. We don't agree on that. I do not agree with his method, because I do not think that will work, so we have another means. But we agree on the objective of preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	I would like to return to the previous point: language lessons starting from day 1. That is in a motion that colleagues Pechtold and Klaver referred to. There is therefore a motion from the Chamber, which the Prime Minister says will only take effect if people have certainty about their status. What does he think of the commitment of the US Secretary of State? He said in her Schoo-lecture that such a right-wing sacred cottage should actually die, namely that you are not allowed to work or learn until it is certain that you are allowed to stay. What does he think of that bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	I thought she made a very nice speech. I didn't even agree on two points. Yesterday Mr Segers highlighted another one: the element of the importance of religion in society. I did not share her view on that. This is the second thing I didn't agree with, but otherwise I thought it was a wonderful speech. I also think it is very good that politicians make that kind of bigger speeches. I am also glad that they do not feel completely encased by all the lines of the cabinet or the party views. It should be possible, otherwise you will never have a bigger debate. I thought it was a wonderful speech. It is also widely commented, but I did not agree with these two elements. Mr Segers found them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	We then agree on that first element and I was happy with that second element. After all, you also have to look at it in a very practical way. If there is a large group like the Syrians, of whom we know 95% will get a status, then it is important that from day one you invest in language, in skills and in participation, and that people don't spend a year in the hands of all possible tragedies? Then it's important that you give them immediate opportunities, isn't it? Why would we be so difficult for that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'd take a little practical look at that. We now know that the IND decision-making periods are falling to eight weeks. We invest in volunteering. As soon as people have status, they get language lessons. I don't think the differences are that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yes, and I have the impression that this point has been raised a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	I have one final question, because I am specifically asking about a group of people from whom we are almost certain that they will be given that first status: the Syrians. Then it is strange to act on that so rücksichtslos instead of giving them an immediate chance to join? I'd say, please, let this sacred house die.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'm repeating myself a little bit. I can't say it any clearer than I just said. I understand that Mr Segers and I do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Van der Staaij, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, I have another question, which concerns the point that Mr Wilders has just raised. I asked a question about this yesterday in my term. The Threat of Terrorism continues to say, even in the most recent version published by NCTV, the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator, that it can still happen that jihadists use the refugee routes due to lack of control at the external borders and document fraud. To be honest, I was shocked that even after all this time and all these measures, that is just how it is reflected in the Threat Picture of Terrorism. What is the prospect of better control at the external borders and a better approach to document fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	We have done a great deal in our Presidency, for example in the area of border and coastal surveillance, Secretary of State Dijkhoff, Minister Van der Steur and Minister Koenders have spent a great deal of time in the Presidency to ensure that we in Europe come very quickly to a common approach to border and coastal surveillance. That is very important and we have taken very great steps in this regard. The second is Frontex. This must have all the means to ensure that the external borders are properly guarded. The third is what we do nationally. I just outlined all that. Don't tempt me to mention all these measures. I could do that, but it's a whole list. These are measures that we are taking at national level to ensure that no one slips through them. I then had a discussion with Mr Wilders, who had another instrument, namely closing the borders. But that is not going to help either, because in the end people will sneak through it as well. You should therefore offer maximum warranty and do the maximum one hundred percent guarantee is not there... to prevent people from slipping through it. The weaknesses need to be strengthened. It's being worked on very hard right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	I certainly believe that a great deal of effort has been made. I appreciate that. However, I am concerned about the result. When can we read in the Threat Picture of Terrorism: fortunately, the external borders are now under control so that we no longer run the risk of being used by jihadists on the refugee route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	It will always be a mix of what you do with the external borders and what you do nationally. It will always have to be a whole package and we are really approaching it as a package. So it is not just a national issue or the issue of Europe's external borders, we must look at it as a whole. It is also important to reduce the flows of asylum itself. Less people need to take the dangerous crossing and more people need to be taken care of in the region. So you have to look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	The question remains whether, if there is a lack of control at the external borders, pressure is being exerted on those countries which do not do enough or do not cooperate sufficiently with them. Do we then say that we can no longer continue free travel within Europe when the external border is leaking? That was the agreement made when freedom of movement was made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. You can also see in the debate on Greece that the pressure is increasing and so is the measures in Bulgaria. That is not because Bulgaria is not doing well, but to protect that country further. Mr. Chairman. I come to the next topic, security and rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have a question about the international treaties and how they stand. I believe that this was done yesterday by Mr Zijlstra. Last year, I talked about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	That's what I come up with in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	I have a brief question about the refugees in Greece. According to the Greek immigration minister, 7,000 refugees have been registered, but are not admitted by other EU Member States. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's lecture on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	Again, we do a lot and are now number three in the list. We continue to do so, and we encourage other countries to do so. However, we cannot accept the 7 000 alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	We're really repeating ourselves now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	This isn't a repeat, Mr. Chairman. I am asking a very specific question. The Prime Minister argues that there are problems with the registration of refugees. That needs to be improved. That's what Mr Samsom was talking about. But we also see that 7,000 people have been registered. I'm not asking for everyone to be included, but we made the agreement that we would take in over 5,000 people. Why don't we? That's a very simple question. The Prime Minister can answer that, can't he? Then he doesn't have to repeat himself. It is a new question and I would like a new answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	We will continue to record people in accordance with our agreements. We also look at what others do; we are already in the top three. So I think we're doing it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	But the question is, why aren't they here yet? We agreed that it was going way too slowly. Next thing you know, people are registered, but they're not here yet. That is why I have the very simple question: why isn't that happening? If I don't get an answer to that, you're almost gonna think there's unwillingness instead of impotence in the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	How can Mr Klaver determine that when you see where we are on the list and see how far we are ahead? I'm fine with that, too. That's part of the Netherlands too. Other countries will also have to do their part. We're really ahead of that. We also continue to do that very decently. The aim is to increase reception in the region and prevent people making dangerous crossings. In fact, you'd only want to use the resolution tool, so we'll only transfer people through resolution eventually. Now you're also dealing with relocation. That is a legal problem from the past. Mr Klaver rightly refers to this. And that's where we're taking our part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	But now there's a whole different story coming up. First, the Prime Minister says that it is simply the registration problem in Greece. There will be problems with that, but it is now clear that 7 000 people have already been registered and are waiting. Does the Prime Minister now say that because other countries do not want to run as fast as we do, we do nothing and do not fulfil our obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	We are more than fulfilling our obligations. It really doesn't make sense what Mr Roemer says. You're right, you're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes, we did, because we agreed that we would take in 5,000 people, and we have not yet reached that figure by a long shot. There is therefore no obstacle to our meeting now, to get in touch with Greece and to live up to what we have promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	I think it's good to do that somewhat in relation to others. We need to look at it together. Of the 50,000, 7,000 are now apparently registered to be transferred. We do that with 27 countries and the Netherlands is in the top three. Surely you can't blame the Netherlands for not complying with our commitments? I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	Well, you can. So you can say later that you've been to colleague Tsipras and you've offered him everything we can do. Those are talk for the stage again, because that is not what we are doing. We've agreed and agreed to include 5,000 people who live there in circumstances that you and I don't want to be in. Then the Prime Minister says: the registration system is not right there, it's all taking way too long, so we can't do anything. So that also turns out to be a chat for the stage. Now I say that 7 000 refugees have already been registered and we still have room, because we have not kept our agreement. And then the Prime Minister says: yes, but because other countries are not running so fast, neither are we. You can't do that. Deal's a deal. Pick up those people and make sure we keep our end of the bargain!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	We will. You really cannot say that if we are on the top of the European score, we will not keep our commitments. I really disagree with that. Mr Samsom asked Mr Roemer to use his influence; I very much support that. It runs along two lines. One: that registration on the Greek mainland is going very slowly. Of course, these numbers are still far too low. Two: within the framework of the one-to-one system, it is necessary that the agreements with Turkey can also be implemented on the other hand; especially there political pressure will be needed. I very much support Mr Samsom's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	Put pressure on everyone; all of that is allowed. I'd be happy to call everyone. I do so with great regularity, with love and pleasure, but to leave those people in the cold simply because other countries do not want to run fast enough, when we have made a commitment: that cannot be true. We're not making appointments for nothing, are we? You can't just say that the problems lie with someone else and not with you. Now the rabbit comes out of the top hat: you just don't want it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	That is simply not true. Every week we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	Every week there are people and people who are reassigned in numbers. Every week! Then we do it all the time. We are fulfilling our commitments and that is why we are so high in this European ranking. So it's just not true that we don't. I come to the issue of the glorification of violence. This was also a major issue in yesterday's debate. I'd like to discuss that after I've emphasised the following. What I liked about yesterday's discussion is that it became very clear that, in order for the Netherlands to stay in the Netherlands, you have to standardize on the one hand, you have to make it clear that it is not a choice menu. This applies not only to the Turkish Dutchman in Rotterdam who is showing with red flags and then makes life and work impossible for a NOS journalist. This also applies to the Dutchman who stood in the back of a town hall screaming and made discussion impossible when last year there was discussion about the arrival of azc's or emergency shelters. I find both equally bad and for both the Dutch values are not a choice menu and not a cafeteria model. It's all or nothing. On the other hand, we have law enforcement. We will have to do everything we can to ensure that our police also make use of the powers that the police have. Those were actually the two main points in the debate yesterday: upholding the law and setting the standard together. Against this background, I would like to answer a number of questions about glorification of violence, first of all Mr Buma's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	We have just agreed that it would be useful if the Prime Minister were to finish his blocks. Then everyone gets the opportunity to interrupt. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	This was an introductory remark. I then have a large number of questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	My question is precisely about that introductory remark. The Prime Minister said, "I think he is right in saying that both are equally bad: the Turkish boy who jumps in front of that NOS journalist and makes him impossible the work and the Dutch boys who are in the back of that room swearing. However, the Prime Minister had a very different message for both of them, and I do not understand that. After all, they are both Dutch who have to behave better. Yet the Prime Minister tells one man to get the hell out of here and to the other he says, "Behave yourself." Why doesn't the Prime Minister have the same message for the same people who live in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	Because in that movie the following is visible. We not only see the very uncomfortable image of Turkish Dutch people demonstrating at the Erasmus Bridge in Rotterdam. I think we all find that uncomfortable, but it is allowed, because it is to use the right of demonstration in the Netherlands. We see some of them turning against that NOS reporter. Then one of them in the camera says, "Get the fuck out of here!" He doesn't say that to the camera; he says that to us. If that is said in the camera, while he is shopping in our achievements, demonstrate, but that NOS reporter doesn't do his job and say to the Netherlands: "get the hell out of here." I also said in the broadcast that I, as Prime Minister, believe that we have our values and our achievements to be maintained and that we must make it clear that you cannot shop in them by making use of the right to demonstrate but denying another the right to make a report on them, or the freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	We do not disagree about the qualification of what happened there. Maybe it's worse than you, but we're not gonna have a game about that. However, you said that your primary reaction was to say: fuck off! You said "primary reaction," but that broadcast was meticulously prepared. That was a lot of thought and you had chosen the fragment yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	You had thought very carefully about what you were going to say after that fragment. You said to a Dutchman with a Turkish background: fuck off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	You don't say that to Dutch people with a different background. Could you imagine that Dutch people with a Turkish background would think: wait a minute, this Prime Minister treats me differently than any other wheeldriver in this country? Shouldn't a prime minister be more binding on all the people who are in this country, even if they behave incredibly badly? You could have used all kinds of other qualifications with respect to those guys: behave yourself, be ashamed of yourself or be your vocabulary-using man.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	No, someone else started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	Act natural, man; that was your addition to that high-level debate. You deliberately, quite deliberately, used a very different remark. Honestly, that's what I'm worried about. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	No, I don't understand that at all. We really disagree on this. Hundreds or thousands of people with red Turkish flags demonstrated in Rotterdam, on the Erasmus Bridge. In my view, this is largely uncomfortable here, but okay, it is our achievements and you can demonstrate here. Turkish Dutch people are also allowed to demonstrate here and even to do so with Turkish flags. I am not quite sure what would happen if Mr Samsom and I were to demonstrate with a Dutch flag in Turkey. Anyway, it's okay here. It was very uncomfortable. Then someone makes use of the freedom of the press and reports on it. Not only is it made impossible for him to work, but just before that happens, the person who does so in the camera adds the Netherlands: get the hell out of here. He didn't say that to that journalist, but really to the Netherlands. There is only one possible response, and I gave it there. I'm really holding on to that. I think so, and I'm sure that's what everyone thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	Look, there he is again. You're sure everyone would. That's why I'm so worried. We've known each other a little too long now, you might say. Because I've been through this before. Something has already been said about the promises made before the elections, but more seriously I thought the moment was also before elections; then that was before the First Chamber, where you wanted Syrians dead in Syria. At the same time, I asked you about this, and from this very point of view, I said: you also stand for the international legal order; a statement that they can be killed better than justice does not suit a Prime Minister. Even then, you said exactly what you said now. You even said with some eagerness: I repeat it once again, and everyone agrees with me. I'm sure everyone agrees with you. But a prime minister has a greater responsibility than saying things that all people agree with. I see again, and that is why I am concerned that in the direction of the election campaigner Mark Rutte is breaking through the Prime Minister's armor, which is a rather strong personality of yours. It is going to say things that everyone agrees with, but which will not benefit the Netherlands. The Netherlands will benefit from a Prime Minister who acts in a binding manner and who treats all the Dutch equally in this country. If they behave badly, they must be caught by the lurches, to supplement your vocabulary, but it should not be called "pleasure." It does not belong to people who live in this country. You need to connect. You must make it clear to them that their future lies here and that they should not focus on that other country. If we see the campaigner Rutte more often over the next six months, who eagerly repeats what 99% of the country wants to hear, and less often the Prime Minister, then I worry. My appeal to you is: don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Samsom has fallen deep into my psyche to find out exactly who was speaking. I can reassure Mr Samsom: that was the Prime Minister. 'Cause this is what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	I really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'm sure you'll like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	If someone in that camera yells at all of us, there can only be one reaction. Next, Mr Samsom is right in saying that there should be a second reaction. I have also given them, namely that, as Prime Minister, of course, I have the task of explaining exactly what this is about: that you cannot shop in those achievements and that, if you use the right to demonstrate on the one hand, you cannot prevent the NIS from making a report on this. Maybe I need to explain one more point. Should a Dutchman in the back of one of those halls have shouted "fuck off" in a camera at an azc speech evening, he would have gotten exactly the same reaction from me. Exactly the same reaction! So if Mr Samsom thinks that I am making a distinction between a Turkish Dutchman and a Dutchman, I will tell him that this is not at all my concern. They are all Dutch. But if you shout "get the hell out of there" in the camera, there can only be one reaction. Then Mr Samsom is absolutely right that you will explain exactly what is going on afterwards, and that is what I have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	The point is that there can indeed only be one reaction, because your second reaction does not matter so much. But there can be many first reactions. I wish I had another one. Now you're making the difference smaller, that's your right; by the way, it's also your job to reduce differences here by saying: I had said to that Dutchman about the same thing. I dare to doubt that. I'm willing to doubt that, but fortunately, we didn't have to take that test. Let us also hope that this does not happen very often. In any case, I would ask you to do the following. You say that as Prime Minister. I think we could at least agree that you will not repeat it as Prime Minister if it happens again. If we are to establish here a policy on the Prime Minister's reaction to a self-chosen fragment in a Summer Guest broadcast that will not happen again so soon, then we should in principle be able to agree that you say to all Dutch people the same thing if they are wrong or if they are wrong. And not against one "pleasure" and against the other "shame you" or "I am ashamed of them." You have said this before about hooligans of Dutch descent who behaved badly abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	Then you didn't say, "Stay there." In the vein you indicated now, that would in itself be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	They would have smashed even more fountains in Italy!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	You said, "I'm ashamed of them." I thought that was a sensible reaction, one that suits a prime minister of all the Dutch. We were all ashamed of them. You expressed our feelings. You didn't do that right now. You are proud that 99% liked what you said, but I tell you that it is not good for the Netherlands and for the assignment we discussed here yesterday. It was about the doubt of the Netherlands. Are we still one society, or are we going to stand up to each other with heated heads and call "no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A prime minister shouldn't contribute to that. If the campaigner Mark Rutte does that occasionally, I worry, but that's so far. But if the Prime Minister does, I'll object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	I'm always Prime Minister until someone takes office. It is exactly like that broadcast during the state elections, to which Mr Samsom refers. As Prime Minister, I can also express my views, and I will. Is it cabinet policy with that? No. It wasn't in that broadcast in March 2015. But it's an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	First of all, on that last point: I am always Prime Minister. Not so long ago, the Prime Minister was quite annoyed during an interruption of mine. Then he said: yes, but as Prime Minister I also found something else; this was Mark Rutte. That's too recently to say "a" and "b" again. But now about this. I also get emails from people who write: top, at least this man says it! But that's the same Prime Minister Rutte who talks more and more about standards and values. He started it this morning. The Prime Minister is doing the following, especially now that it's being repeated. When the other says "fuck off," he says "fuck off." I say to Prime Minister Rutte: if the other lowers the standard and you do the same, you don't set the standard; then you lower the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	I understand what Mr Buma is saying, but I do not agree with him in this case, because it is his job, and certainly my job in this job, to standardize. You can't talk about norms and values without obligation. That, I think, is also a challenge for Mr Buma's party. He also often talks about norms and values, but at some kind of meta-level. It's about how you fill it out. It's about putting the standard down, and you're willing to put it down. For me, the norm here is very clear. That standard applies both to that Dutchman in the back of that town hall who objects to an azc, and to the Turkish Dutch who demonstrate. If you want to make a positive contribution in this country, you have all the fundamental rights and all the achievements to accept, just as the King said in the Throne speech. You can't bargain with that. You can't go shopping in there. That is a crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	I would almost say: please say that you do not say this as Prime Minister. Do that, please. When you say as Prime Minister that "pleasure" is the norm for the Netherlands, can you believe that? That's really bad. You can't do that! Once in a while, you're in front of a school class, and then it's about standards and values. Do you also say "pleasure" to your students? Do you say "fuck off," "fuck off" and "scumbags of the ledge"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	I really don't understand Mr Buma. He leads a party that claims to stand up for values and values, but what does he do? He catches a bit of words instead of looking at the heart of the matter. I would like to hear him talk about fundamental rights in the Netherlands, about the fact that two men should be able to walk down the street, and about the fact that a woman with a short skirt should not be ashamed when she walks through a certain neighbourhood. I would like to hear Mr Buma say that for once. Those are the standards we need to set.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	You're going off like a watering can, man!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	It's getting a bit like the English House of Commons here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	The atmosphere is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	As a politician, you cannot talk about norms and values on the one hand, without being prepared to put that standard down on the other. That is really an important task for us as politicians, and I challenge Mr Buma to do so. He's had his meeting with 1,000 CDAs who've talked about all very nice and beautiful things, but it's not. Eventually, it comes down to these kinds of moments. We need to record with each other what we think is normal in this country and what we do not think is normal. People are worried. Will the Netherlands remain in the Netherlands? Will the Netherlands remain the Netherlands in which we can properly discuss the arrival of an azc in a city council meeting? Is it still the Netherlands in which we can not only demonster, but in which we also respect the freedom of the press? This is fundamental and essential. You may come up with such a discussion as this, but then you walk away just like Mr. Buma for your responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	Now the Prime Minister pretends that I started this discussion, but it really started with the Prime Minister himself. He started saying that himself. Think about the fact that the Netherlands is watching! Those people now hear that the Prime Minister thinks the norm in the Netherlands is that when someone says "fuck off," you say "fuck off." That's not normal. That's really not normal! If we want to set standards, we also need to set limits. Okay, if you want to hear it, yes, I think that glorifying violence should be punishable. I think there should be a conscription. Yeah, that's what I'm for! I say, unlike the VVD, that freedom of expression is not unlimited, because you have not only rights, but also responsibilities. That was the answer I wanted to hear from the Prime Minister, not "fuck off," "fuck off," or "fuck off," and then do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	I don't think that's a strong reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	We are talking about the budget here, but we are actually talking about the Prime Minister who goes off like a watering machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	We're talking about summer guests. I was allowed to be a guest there sometime. You can pick items weeks and months in advance and talk to the editors. So you choose this item yourself. You figure it out yourself, so you seem to want to deliver a message as Prime Minister. You've thought about that. It's not a show where you end up facing a movie. Mayor Aboutaleb responded, but said after his reaction: you're welcome, and I'm going to talk to you. I've never seen you do that either. It's about picking up now. It really is... You seem to enjoy it too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	No, not at all. I'm just surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	You seem to enjoy saying in an election debate: you know, if you're going to fight in Syria as a minor, then die there and above all don't be tried here in our rule of law. That's another thing people feel isn't the norm. The Prime Minister says, "I'm standard here." But I say not on my behalf. If my son would say "fuck off" to a teacher and say "pleasure" back to the teacher, I'd take on my son, but I'd take on the teacher even harder. That's the norm here. And be proud of it! And almost get your cabinet in trouble! Last week we had this same thing. The Minister for Social Affairs was doing his best not to lose too much weight by saying: it is not quite my language; I would say "shame you!" And then fucking do it again a week later! A lot of Dutch people will indeed think: that is what I would say. Yeah, but in the pub, at a family party or in the cafeteria with a drink too much. But this was said by a man you expect to be a normalist. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	This is typical of how these kinds of discussions always run in the Netherlands. In the end, it is not about laying down the norm or the fact that we politicians are expressing our opinion on what we expect from behaviour in society. It's about pitch. That's exactly what's happening here. This is where things go wrong every time, so that the message is never given clearly to society. That message is that we politicians cannot accept in any way that people view our achievements as a cafeteria model. We fought for that for centuries. The enlightenment, humanism, the Constitution and the liberal achievements were violated there. If such a man says that in the camera, this is my reaction; exactly as I gave it. I immediately said that as Prime Minister, my further message is that you have to abide by all the achievements in this country. Constricting that debate to a discussion about the pitch is exactly what we always do in this country. In the end, you never share the norm with society. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	For a man like Rutte, a historian who has been around The Hague for years, this is really below level. You've selected the item. You've prepared your response. But look at what was on that bridge. There were a lot of different people with flags who were angry at the time. You'll know it's gonna work in society. You know there are Erdogan supporters. You know that Gülen followers are now at home fearing for their children at school. You know there are Christian Turks, too. So society's brewing. And who are we looking at? To politicians and to symbols. The Prime Minister is not only a politician, but also a symbol that people listen to very well. As an experienced politician, you know that with the words "pleasure" to people with a different background, you don't just say "shame." There's the tone of "go to your own country." That's what you're saying. "If you don't like it here, get out." You know that very well. And you know what's such a shame after six years of prime ministering? You know very well now that you are actually a bit wrong when we are all standing here. Why don't you learn to step back? Give yourself some standards. Let's see you learn from something that went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	In this country, people are very concerned at the moment, not only about what is happening to them now that we are coming out of the crisis. People are even more concerned about whether the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. That is a fundamental concern that many people live with. We can all walk away from that, but that fear is there. The fear that we are increasingly making concessions to a large group of people with a different cultural background who have come here, but also the fear that we are making concessions to screaming people with a Dutch background that make a normal discussion impossible. Then we, as politicians, have a job to do. That task is to make perfectly clear what you have to keep to, and that if you do, you will live in one of the most free countries in the world where you can achieve what you want, where you can discover your talent and where you can make a positive contribution. I think this cabinet is doing better, but the cabinets for this have been slipping with the VVD in it since the 1980s. Integration has not gone well. We know that at the moment 20% of Turkish Dutch people are very poorly integrated in the Netherlands and actually feel fully connected with Turkey. That is a serious matter. People are concerned about this, especially against the background of the large group of refugees who came to the Netherlands last year. We all say this is part of civilization. The numbers had to be lowered, but it's part of civilization. This year, too, we are receiving refugees. If we do not do one thing, but we do not do the other, which is to set that standard, then we, as a society, are taking a very great risk. People then feel increasingly insecure and wonder whether you and I stand up for the Dutch achievements. That is the fundamental point here. We must seize every opportunity to lay down this standard. We can narrow this down to a discussion on pitch, which I think is all wonderful, but I support that statement and I agree that we all have the task of naming that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	Well, let's get a little formal. The Prime Minister has just challenged us, and that is why we are standing here with many of us. He said it was in the role of Prime Minister, and that's what he's saying to his coalition partner. He says to his coalition partner, "I stand here in my role as Prime Minister and I say, "fuck off." Then you can't say it's not cabinet policy anymore. You can't say that anymore. In all the traditions of our state law, you can't say that anymore. If you say "I'm standing here as Prime Minister," you can't say "I think so myself." So now please from the vice prime minister: is it policy? Mr. Chairman. I have a right to do that. Is the policy that "pleasure" is the reaction to someone who looks like a loner in a camera and not on behalf of that group, because maybe the rest of the group couldn't recognize themselves in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	No, Mr. Chairman, that is not the policy of the cabinet. Just like it's not the policy of the cabinet to people who...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	Then you won't say it as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	No, the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	Wait a minute, I'm coming to the answer. That is not the policy of the cabinet, just as it is not the policy of the cabinet, but my view is that if Dutch people travel to ISIS territory as a jihadist, they should die there rather than return. That is not a cabinet policy either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	We are not interested in your solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr Pechtold, Mr Pechtold, this is a view. I've given an opinion. This is what I think. Then I was asked in what role, there was some psychologization: the campaigner or the prime minister. I'm not Prime Minister 24 hours a day, but I'll find something. This is what I think. It's not a cabinet policy, but I'll find this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	Nawijn said in this Chamber: I am in favour of the death penalty. Then we're all talking... that was such a weird minister, remember? He said I'm in favour of the death penalty, but a minister can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	That's a measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	You're in character. I still want to accept that you were there as a private person with Summer guests. You stand here challenging us, the parliament, your auditor. You say, "I say it as Prime Minister." You'll tell your coalition partner. Then you cannot say: that is a view. You can't say that. Then everything we meet here is worthless from that moment on. You say it as Prime Minister on behalf of a cabinet here in the Chamber where everything needs to be said, where we distinguish between what we say here and what we say outside. Even the judge makes a distinction. You're always here in your role...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	...and I'll hold you to that. If you say "I standardize and "pleasure" is a standard," that is not what I want to hear in the Netherlands towards police officers, towards teachers and also not towards Turkish Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	There is a difference between a view and a policy. This is an idea. I have made it very clear what standards I have laid down in that programme. I said immediately afterwards that as Prime Minister, I think that if you live in this country and use your fundamental rights, you have to take advantage of all fundamental rights and respect them all. That is indeed a real cabinet policy, but it is a view I give there. It is exactly like the debate we have had on the General Reviews in the run-up to the state elections. Let us now, Mr Pechtold, distinguish between opinion and policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	I hope that this debate on interruption will show that a view has an influence on how recipients in society feel about it. The Prime Minister is talking about fundamental rights, achievements and freedoms in our country. As far as I am concerned, there is no discussion about this either. I think they apply to everyone and you can't shop out. I note and see that the Prime Minister is actually doing it himself. Article 1 of our Constitution, one of our most important achievements, states that people must be treated equally. In my view, this interruption debate is painful to see that the Prime Minister, in equal cases, treats people differently in terms of pitch. What's his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	That it was a very confusing argument. I don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	The Prime Minister is talking about the cafeteria model, but he selects and shoppers selectively from our own achievements and fundamental rights, because he treats one group of people differently from the other group of people. What is his view on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	That it's not true. I also spoke just now about the case that someone totally does not respect the fundamental rights of others, and I gave an example of the arrival of asylum seekers' centres and emergency shelters because it was so pressing last year and played in the debate here. To someone who would then yell something like that in a camera, I would have exactly the same reaction. Anyone would have that reaction. That has nothing to do with whether someone is a Turkish Dutchman, a Dutchman, a Dutch Turk or whatever. The only logical reaction when someone calls in a camera is what I said there. Then you have to establish with each other what the standards are here, namely that those achievements are for everyone and that you cannot shop in them. You cannot make use of the right to demonstrate and make it impossible for the NOS to report on this or to participate in the debate at a municipal council meeting in the back of a room, but make it impossible for others to do so. At that time, you are really in the process of violating the fundamental rights of others. This touches on the key point that we are taking more and more steps in an undesirable direction at the moment. That's exactly where the fear of a lot of people is. I feel that way, and a lot of people feel that way. I believe that it is our duty, as in the Throne State, to radiate, say and standardise that these fundamental rights apply to everyone and therefore they are also unconditional for everyone. It's all or nothing. If it's not everything, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	That's exactly the point. It does appeal to a group of people in society when the Prime Minister uses phrases as "pleasure." The Prime Minister also heard during the speech of the throne that our king said on behalf of the cabinet that there is a "our way of life." I would like to ask him: the statements that Geert Wilders made here yesterday, which also fit our way of life, namely that we should ban the Koran, that we should close mosques, that we should ban a religion, that a Dutch parliamentarians should not belong here and that he should leave? Are these statements consistent with our achievements? May I invite the Prime Minister to use the same powerful language and the same force for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	My answer is: he may say that, but achieving these goals does not fit in with our society and our achievements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	Exactly, Mr President, do you see here, I think it becomes clear to the viewer at least that this terminology is much milder than the terminology used by the Prime Minister during the broadcast of Summer Guests? During the same broadcast, the Prime Minister quoted the statistics that 20% of the population is segregated. He obtained that percentage from the 2015 report "Welding of Difference" of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. If it is right, he has read in that same report the underlying causes of this segregation, which is hopelessness, that people do not live in mixed neighbourhoods, that they do not get to work, that they feel like second-class citizens, that they are measured with double standards. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister and the whole cabinet to be specific about this and simply to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	And is that a reason to justify this kind of behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	That's not what the discussion is about, is it? I have also made it clear that our freedoms and achievements, as well as those contained in our Constitution, are equal for all. However, what the Prime Minister is doing here is treating one group of people differently from the other group. Among the people he accuses of segregated life, he does not look at the root causes of that segregated life. That should also be the task of this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	Of course we do, but it starts with the fact that we are very clear with each other about what kind of country people have arrived in or are born second or third generation. I am referring to the standards and values that belong to that country, to the achievements that belong to that country and to the history that results from them. If we are not clear about this, so you cannot do one thing and not respect the other's right to fundamental rights, because those fundamental rights are for everyone, if you don't standard them...Of course you look at causes that make people less successful or that make things worse in certain neighbourhoods. We're working really hard on that, aren't we? That is self-evident, but it can never replace the setting of a standard. I think it is my job as Prime Minister and a task of all of us as politicians to lay down those standards. If we don't, we're going down the wrong road step by step. This ultimately leads people to feel that the Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	Here too, I have the impression that we are repeating ourselves, but all right. Let me say this as a warning to those who still want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'm afraid we're gonna have to go through with this for a while, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Rutte, you're a better campaigner than you are a prime minister. You don't understand the point or you don't want to understand. You are now receiving criticism from the Chamber, from all sides of this Parliament. When you talk about "pleurts on," people in the Netherlands with a double passport, boys and girls born here, feel addressed, as if the Dutchmanship is conditional. There's no one here to justify what happened on that bridge. I hate it. It's a disgrace. I'm ashamed of what's going on in there. Those are other words, however. You make a distinction when there are incidents. In football hooligans, you are ashamed and a disgrace. In this group, you say, "Fuck off." The message below is that if you have another passport, you can also go to another country. That makes people conditional citizens. That's what hits them. This affects precisely the group that is not radicalized at all but feels pushed away by our society. I ask the Prime Minister not only to see this as a nice little campaign debate in which he can still profile himself because he is such a sturdy boy. Take back your words!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	If you see that footage, there can only be one reaction if you start boiling blood. These are people who live in a country where you get all the opportunities, where you can participate, where you can make something of your life with very big freedoms. Then you see what happens there. These people use these freedoms and demonstrate in Rotterdam. That makes me feel uncomfortable and uncomfortable with a lot of other people, but it's okay. These are also achievements of this society. Then one looks into the camera and says to the Netherlands: get the hell out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	It's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	Then there can only be one reaction. That's the reaction I gave there. Next, of course, you will explain exactly what is happening, namely that you cannot shop in our achievements, that the rights and fundamental rights apply to everyone, and that it is therefore unthinkable that in this country, with our history, with what we have been through here, a NOS journalist makes working and life impossible. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	No, Mr. Rutte. There would have been ten possible reactions, fifteen or twenty or much more. But you chose the one, the one reaction in which you said, "fuck off." There would have been so many other terms of strength that we could set a standard, draw a line, to say that we would not accept this in the Netherlands. There were so many ways to say it, but you deliberately chose to "pleurt" because this is not just about Dutch people, but about Dutch people with a background abroad, often with a double passport. This sends out a signal: you're welcome here, but if you don't behave, you can pick up as far as I'm concerned. That's unworthy of a Prime Minister. I wish the Prime Minister would just admit it here. This isn't a game, it's not a policy that's being practiced here. From left to right you will be dealt with here. Get away from that. Let all the Dutch who live here know that you are their prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	I really disagree with Mr Klaver. It's just another discussion I said earlier about pitch and not about what the discussion should be about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	It's not about pitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	...that very large groups of people in this country are very concerned. They're watching the country change. When it comes to the discoloration of the land, it's okay. That's all part of when people come here. But we're not gonna change where our ground values are concerned. We have to maintain that with each other. What we have done too little here over the past 20, 30 years, I also point to my own party; it is true for all of us to stand up for those values of this society. I say one thing to Mr Klaver. If you really want people coming from outside to be successful here, it is wiser that we are very clear about what they have to integrate into, then we are unclear about that. We have too often been unclear about it. This has also contributed to poor integration. We must be absolutely clear. We must set these standards. That's good for the people who come here and who can build a nice life here. That is also good for the people who already live here and who are concerned that the Netherlands will not stay in the Netherlands. This is really essential, this is about more than pitch, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	This debate is not about pitch, this debate is not about pitch. You should have had very sharp criticism, because there is only one response possible and that is a reaction with criticism. The criticism of you is directed at the words you have chosen. With those words you say something, with those words you send a message. That is more than setting a standard, that is more than indicating what we are doing and what we are not doing here in the Netherlands. That is also the exclusion of people who have a double passport. That's what I charge you, not the pitch. You should just go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	For a change, I have two compliments for the Prime Minister, but one criticism after that. It is very good that the Prime Minister makes it clear that the behaviour of those boys in front of the camera, of those wheeldrivers, is not tolerated. Very good, because there has been far too long looking away, is related or explanations for such behavior have been sought. Class if we sharpen that standard! That's my first compliment. The second is that it is a good thing that it is done in clear language. If you're just saying that you don't appreciate "such deviant behavior," I don't know if the message gets through to the total of society. But then my point of criticism. Why go all the way from that phrase I just mentioned to the other extreme and use street language? What would have been wrong if the Prime Minister had accepted the Asscher amendment and said, "Shame down, behave." What would have been wrong if he had used as strong a wording as he liked that we at home didn't have to explain to our children that you shouldn't say what the Prime Minister said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	I appreciate not only the person Van der Staaij, but also his contribution. On that last point we do not agree, as it should be clear. I thought this was the only possible response to what this gentleman was screaming in the camera. That's what I'm gonna keep going. I understand that we do not agree on that last point, but I am very pleased with the support on the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	In any case, it shows that Dutch lessons in the context of integration are not yet sufficient to speak the same language. Wasn't that broadcast on Sunday night, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	I'm surprised you saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	No, I didn't... I've heard so much about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	There's been some attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	There has been some attention to it and I think that was just the intention. My personal experience is that it helps, even if you cook blood, to continue to use the good language. If you take a rest day once a week, you can think even better about your use of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	When it comes to Sunday rest, I would like to join the previous speaker, but that aside. It's about more than the pitch. It's a good thing the Prime Minister says we have to standardize. Good thing he says: these are the limits of the rule of law. It is also good that if people come here and want to settle here, it is absolutely clear what that rule of law is, that you get freedom and that you give freedom, that that is reciprocal. But then the people who live here, who grow up here in the second, third generation. How does the Prime Minister look at this new generation? Are they in or are they on parole? Is that part of being in good and bad days? Bad days can be if things go wrong in Zaanstad, if things go wrong in Geldermalsen, if things go wrong in Rotterdam. Then it's bad days. In good days, it can go well. But we hear each other. We standardize and we address each other, but not with anything in mind: if you cross a border, you must leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	That is why I would have exactly the same reaction as something like that would happen by a Dutchman to name it that way. If something like that had been called to a camera in the back of a asylum-seekers' centre, I would have exactly the same reaction. I support Mr Segers in that. That doesn't change the fact that you can't leave it at that. Next, step 2, which Mr Segers himself appoints. You're gonna have to name with each other what those values are. What do you have to integrate into? We've been too weak in that as a society for the past 25, 30 years. In the 1980s, we still had integration policies that were based on compartmentalisation. The columns were already pretty much gone, but we said at the time: perhaps there should only be a kind of Turkish, Moroccan or Islamic column in the Netherlands. Luckily, we let that go. You even had education in your own language, because that would be better. Because of these phenomena, people remained outside society for too long. At the same time, it is very positive that the same research shows that 85% of Moroccan Dutch people are simply doing well and positively and that 80% of Turkish Dutch people participate well and positively. Those are the positive messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	There's something very fundamental here. I started an interruption this morning about gaps and contradictions. The Prime Minister spoke warmly of the need to make that crossing and to reach out to each other. According to him, we need to look for connections at a time when contradictions are getting bigger. This is about the contradiction between ethnic groups. People feel alienated. Then it is crucial that the Prime Minister sends out two signals. 1. You have to abide by the law. You have to stick to the standards. Yeah, we're guarding them. If you go over that, you will indeed meet the power and power of the rule of law. 2. Whatever happens, we hold each other. That's bridging that gap. That's building bridges, and you as Prime Minister didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	I do not agree with Mr Segers. I think it is necessary that I, as Prime Minister, be very clear about what we saw there. I must say clearly what I think of that and express my opinion on it clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	One last try. If in Geldermalsen native boys cross the line you can indeed get out of your album and be angry, but then you don't say "pleurt" because there is no country to go to. That's what the Prime Minister says here and then you look at a misbehaving youngster differently, because you actually say: it's conditional if you belong here. We now need one signal: we belong together in good and bad days. We'll standardize. We will correct, but we will always hold each other. The Prime Minister didn't send that signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	I do not agree with Mr Segers, I really do not. I also said: if something like this had been said in the camera in Geldermalsen by someone who has lived here for 30 generations, I would have exactly the same reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u194	I doubt the latter. I think he's saying that now to get out of this discussion. I've been in my class for almost 18 years. If kids were in my class screaming, I wouldn't accept that. I didn't do that by calling it back, because then you lower the standard of those who should be standardizing. That aside, because I would like to talk in particular about the enormous widening of the gap in society in recent years. This also contributes to the fact that people do not feel welcome here, do not feel at home. Those who are of good behavior also hear and see this. They see a different reaction there than they saw in Rotterdam. What have you done about binding, which you are proud of, to prevent this from happening? We have not seen or heard any of that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u195	The cabinet is trying to change integration policy. I fully support the integration policy pursued by the cabinet under the leadership of the Minister responsible for this matter, Lodewijk Asscher. I think we're heading in a much firmer direction. I agree, of course, that we have to connect and that we must promote that everyone is part of it. It also includes that you are absolutely clear about what you accept or do not accept of behavior, whether it be organisations or people, about the demands you make to the people who come here, about integration and so on. The cabinet is taking great steps there at the moment, and I fully support it. That enthusiasm for this policy must be seen against the backdrop that I really see in our society that there is a danger of another division. On the one hand, these are the people who are willing to continue to change our values and to say that we should not irritate people who come from outside too much. We need to understand them a little bit. We need to adjust our views a little bit. Maybe those two guys shouldn't walk hand in hand in that neighborhood. Maybe that woman shouldn't be wearing that short skirt in that neighborhood. On the other hand, those who say: we will never accept that it cannot be done everywhere. We will never accept that those values and standards are not maintained everywhere. I have indeed deliberately shown this fragment every time I see it again I am still very angry because it was a means for me as Prime Minister to use that broadcast to say: you cannot shop in those achievements. Those are for all of us. If it's not everything, then it's nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u196	No one in this room will accept that behavior, but you've heard everyone here. They also do not accept the fact that the Prime Minister is then reduced to that behaviour. The Prime Minister is talking about warm words about integration. Then why do I not see any effect when it comes to tackling discrimination? Why, then, do I not see any measures being taken to encourage and improve language courses? Why do I see and hear municipalities that are indeed only hampered by the actual deployment of integration pathways? Why can't I see any effect at the time? The only thing the cabinet has wanted to come with for a long time is a declaration of participation. Does the Prime Minister really think that signing a declaration of participation closes the gap in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u197	It is a well-known debate technique to first speak half truths about cabinet policy, take one thing out and make fun of it and then say: you see, they do not perform anything. What Mr Roemer says is simply wrong. We have added significant amounts to the budgets to learn language. We have introduced the requirement that you also have to speak Dutch for the assistance. We are indeed working on the declaration of participation. We are indeed fighting discrimination in the labour market on all sides. I said it the other day in an interview: it's the most stupid thing you can be, a racist. There's no more stupid than that. That is what we must fight. If that's why people don't get an internship or don't get a job, I hate it. That is what we are trying to prevent in every possible way. I mentioned the example of the Moroccan boy of 8 years old who sees the hand of a big white Dutchman who says: you cannot enter this football club because you are a Moroccan. That's terrible. You can't build a society like that. I'm glad you asked that question. Here too, I lay down the norm: racism, discrimination; we are not only against it, but we are fighting it with all the means we have. Now let's not try to take each other's best shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u198	What the Prime Minister says is simply not true. He blames the whole Chamber for objecting to the way in which he deals with this, as if the whole Chamber would not reject that behaviour. The Court objects to the Prime Minister reducing himself to the same low level. What does the Prime Minister really think that signing a declaration of participation will help to bridge the gap in society and bring back the failing integration policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u199	That's exactly what you're doing right now. You make explicit: you are now in the Netherlands, welcome, you are part of it, but this is also part of it; these are us, these are the standards, the values and the standards in this society. Of course, one signature isn't enough. I just said that, but Mr. Roemer made fun of it again. It's always in connection with all the other things we do as politics, as society, as opinion makers and us as cabinet. It is obvious in that connection. I think it's a valuable moment: you sign for it, you're part of it, this is a special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u200	It's only a valuable product when it turns out it's worth something. If the Prime Minister does not make a distinction between one population and another, then it may be worth something. If you don't have to invest in a loan to do a decent integration course, it's worth something. Not just fine words, but finally action that is binding, for which a prime minister is meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u201	That wasn't a question. A question has remained put by Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u202	That's the most remarkable thing. I have asked a number of questions, but the Prime Minister soon came no further than with some kind of blur before his eyes all of these nonsense answers back. The central point I made...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u203	I understand that Mr Buma does not feel served. I'm gonna try to do even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u204	What question hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u205	I think that this Prime Minister, after this debate, will go straight to his campaign team and say: top notch, we did a great job. I say again to this Prime Minister: you are here as Prime Minister and not as the campaigner. My question was about what you say here about "fuck off, fuck off": when the other says "fuck off," I say "fuck off." You also teach at a school. Do you also say to the teachers in the Netherlands, to the conductors, to the doctors: if someone says "fuck off," say "fuck off" back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u206	Look back at that image again, I would like to say to Mr Buma. Look back at that statue and see what's going on over there. See what happens there, where people exercise their right to demonstrate. Mr Van der Staaij said it very nicely: if you didn't have something else... No, I chose this reaction. This is the reaction I feel deeply and I would like to repeat it. Mr Buma, with a certain relish, repeats that term over and over again. I'm glad I can help him with that. In the end, however, that is a discussion about the pitch. Here's what I find. If you see that footage, there can be no other reaction. Then there can be no other reaction. I'm looking at one image. There is a Turkish Dutchman in the camera shouting to the whole of the Netherlands: get the hell out! Then what could be the only reaction? That according to article I have so many of the Civil Code still some reflections on the comments he has made that I will come back to in the next five annexes? No, then there's only one imaginable reaction: fuck off!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u207	Finally, Mr President. I understand. Maybe there's something missing the Prime Minister, but he's in politics himself. He's not the Dutchman who sees something on TV and gets angry. I know about those people who are very angry. Then I say, you should go into politics, then you can do something about it. You have to do something about it. That's your job. "Pull on" calls because it looks so nice on the tube is purely effect hunting and we have nothing to do with impact hunting in politics. We need action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u208	This is the difference between Mr Buma and me. Mr Buma talks about standards and values. My predecessor did that, too, on websites and stuff like that. What really matters is not to talk about standards and values, but to ensure that we maintain them, that we set the standard and that we are absolutely clear about that. That's the big difference between the CDA and this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mr. Chairman. You will understand that the Prime Minister's remark 'pleasure' cannot be called into question by us. In fact, I think I'm pretty much his only friend in the House of Representatives right now. I'd like to ask him otherwise our paths will separate as quickly as we've found each other. How he's gonna arrange for them to pick up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u210	Just for the people in the public gallery: you really are not supposed to show your approval or disapproval in any way, no matter how annoying it may be to suppress emotions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u211	But if they do, they'd rather approve than reject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u212	Yeah, I know it's not that bad for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u213	They are hollow phrases as "pleasure," which means "fuck off" or "go away," is not filled by measures that make them go away. I have asked the Prime Minister once before, and I ask him again now, because otherwise it is indeed just a hollow phrase. What are you gonna do? Do you call two or three measures which also pop people up, which also fuck them up? How are you gonna do that, or is it just a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u214	What Mr Wilders wants, of course, is for all those Turks to leave the country. These are Turkish Dutch and have a Dutch passport. That's why I'm so intense about it. If it were so simple, if you could say that it is people who have not rooted themselves here at all and still have to go through all sorts of procedures, you could still see if you could somehow send those people away in the procedure. These are people who have a Dutch passport, who are part of it. They didn't hear that standard. They obviously do not know that if you do one thing, you also have the right to give the others the right to make use of those freedoms and that you cannot shop in them. That's all I care about. Mr Wilders is going to explain it to the viewer and say: then Rutte, of course, meant that all the Turkish Dutch should leave now. That is Mr Wilders' agenda. Of course, that is not the point at all. The point is that we, as politicians, have a duty to lay down and enforce a standard. That is why I made that remark and, above all, after that, I explained that you cannot shop in those achievements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u215	Okay, but then I get it: "pleasure on" means "stay here." You say "pleasure," but what you mean is "stay here." You don't have one measure to make sure they pick up. Then may I ask another question? It concerns not only the people on that bridge, but also the people of dual nationality who, for example, were dancing on that car in Zaandam or threatened a journalist. Those are people who commit a crime, people who do what the law says shouldn't. Do you think they should pick up in the sense that we take their passports and leave the country, or even the criminals that "pleasure" means "stay here"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u216	Do I know what I think is so good? Mr Wilders, of course, refers to the situation in Zaanstad. There the street is taken back on these people. The street has been reclaimed, just by using the powers of the police. Those powers were there, and fortunately they are now being applied, also supported by local authority. I'm so glad. These people will be dealt with with by banning areas, by banning cooperation, by resisting the police immediately and so on. You can see now that the peace and quiet is returning to that neighborhood. That is exactly how we should uphold the rule of law in this country. What Mr Wilders then wants is immediately to the superb staircase. "Oh, you don't only have a Dutch passport, but also another passport, so get the hell out of here." Of course, you can't build a society like that. But by laying down that standard and then maintaining it. Happily, that's happening there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u217	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u218	Another crystal clear answer. So for the criminals, too, "pleasure on" means "stay here." I asked two questions. What does "pleasure" mean for all those people on the bridge? Mr. Rutte, the Prime Minister, says, "It doesn't really mean anything, stay here." My second question was the following. What if you commit a criminal act when you beat someone up, when you threaten someone or you're dancing on a police car? Do you think that "pleasure on" means "we'll take your Turkish or Moroccan passport and evict you"? Even then, the Prime Minister says: no, the police must do that and just stay in the Netherlands. Twice means "pleasure on" means "stay here." Then our ways separate again, for then they are hollow, meaningless phrases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u219	We have just seen Mr Wilders' debate trick for two minutes. We're going back to the questions that were asked yesterday. Mr. Chairman. A question had been asked by Mr Buma about the so-called glorification of violence. I announced that half an hour ago, but something came up. Mr Buma often uses the example of what happened last year in the Schilderswijk, with the ISIS demonstration, the so-called Context case. What you see there is that in such a case there is simply a conviction in the Netherlands for coherence, the purpose of calls for connection and so on. This is possible under Articles 137 and 131 of the Criminal Code. In other words, there are all kinds of possibilities for intervention. Mr Buma wants to extend that further. He wants to extend it to cases where people express ideas of this kind, even without that context. I will explain to Mr Buma why this is unwise, apart from Mr Zijlstra's purely liberal speech yesterday, which I fully agree with. There's another reason why you shouldn't. Because in the end, and that's the paradox, it turns out wrong. If you did, these people would go underwater. Then you don't see them anymore, then you can't have the discussion with them anymore, and then you can't fight those thoughts. In the end, it makes society more unsafe. The strange thing, therefore, is that where Mr Buma's proposal aims to make society safer, society becomes more unsafe and unfreer. Where people really go over the writing with expressing their opinion, as with the Context case, the existing criminal law can simply be used as a force for action. And that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u220	How far along are you with the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u221	I'm only at the first question in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u222	I'm sorry, Mr. Buma. I would suggest that the Prime Minister finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u223	First of all, the Prime Minister says I'm proposing something on the basis of something. That's not true. Secondly, he has a whole story about setting standards, but it's okay to glorify violence, because if we criminalize it, it might go underground. Then you're gonna stray from the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u225	You either have to set standards and maintain them. Unless you're just gonna have to talk about it, then you're gonna have to choose another course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u226	Or you'll have to wait until the cube is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u227	That's exactly the point: you have to maintain the norm. But you can only do that if you also know who has that kind of crazy idea. If that happens in a certain context, you can perform. If you make every concept criminal in advance, it is far too likely that it will only be done underwater in future. Mr Buma himself quoted De Tocqueville yesterday. Look at the U.S. Constitution, it goes even further. Why is that? Because you'd rather have the idiot at the village pump with his idiotic views, which you can then combat in substance and in every way, via the Internet or whatever, than go under water by this type of legislation that Mr Buma proposes, and thus make society more unsafe. Another question was about foundations that endanger democracy. This has already been reported by the Cabinet to the Chamber in previous debates. Fortunately, Article 2.20 of the Civil Code allows anti-democratic organisations to be dissolved and banned. This is also part of a resilient democracy. Motions have then been tabled in various parliamentary debates. For example, the motion by Heerma, Dijkgraaf and Azmani to make proposals to ban groups whose objectives inevitably lead to the abandonment of our democratic rule of law. On this basis, we have examined the situation and said that the current Civil Code already makes that possible. There is currently no need to add an additional piece of legislation. Subsequently, a number of other MPs, Heerma, Dijkgraaf and Potters, asked for further research into the way in which the criterion of imminent danger should be applied in different countries. This is one of the criteria underlying Article 2:20 WFD. The cabinet will be coming up with a letter on that shortly. Research has been carried out by Professor De Lange of Erasmus University Rotterdam. Soon we will report to the Chamber on this. Then we were asked how we could tackle the foreign financing of Salafist and other organisations. This is a complicated matter. I am also giving a very nuanced answer to this, because on the one hand, it is obviously unacceptable for terrorist financing to take place in one way or another and if that would be facilitated. That's absolutely impossible. On the other hand, when it comes to non-terrorist organisations, we must ensure that we do not enter into religious freedom. This is a problem because we also know that funding is sometimes used to gain influence, where the behaviour does not fit in with the Dutch democratic rule of law. That is undesirable, but it listens very closely when you as a government can or cannot intervene. This is very precise, because, on the one hand, it is self-evident that terrorist financing is unacceptable and, on the other hand, we have freedom of religion. If you were to ban any form of foreign financing in advance, it would seem to be against the freedom of religion. That is why we are considering this, also in the light of the Pieter Heerma/Karabulut motion (29614, No. 45) on foreign financing. We are going to report back to the Chamber this autumn. The same applies to a very specific case that is still ongoing, namely the purchase of a former school building in Rotterdam by a Salafist organisation. This is very precise and very precise. I do not think there are any major differences of opinion on this either, but we want to put that very precisely on paper, so that we can have this debate with each other in a very precise and nuanced manner. Mr Van der Staaij had a question about Jewish persons, institutions and synagogues. Let me stress once again that freedom of religion is a great asset for this cabinet and that threats and intimidation will never be tolerated. The Minister of V and J, the NCTV, together with the local authority triangles, have regular contact with representatives of church societies and religious communities, including the Islamic and certainly the Jewish communities. We are alert to that. We have joint attention to the security of church societies and religious communities. We take security measures where necessary when the threat and the risk or concrete events give rise to them. I have already answered the questions about Zaandam. A question was asked about the powers of the AIVD. There is always much to be done about the powers of the AIVD and the STUDY and its modernisation in the media and politics. This sometimes gives the impression that the services would not protect us but threaten us. The Cabinet is convinced that the protection of society requires intelligence and security services with sufficient legal capacity, including indeed the power to break encryption and access the cable. The new bill for the intelligence and security services has been sent to the Council of State. In the meantime, he has given birth to an opinion. We aim to send that bill to the Chamber as soon as possible with a response to the opinion, a so-called further report. Then there was another question about the subsidy for the Disputes Committee on Consumer Affairs. No, that wasn't a mistake. For grants to external organisations, less money will be available in the coming years. That leads to choices that are necessary. This will undoubtedly be discussed further, if I may say so briefly, in the debate on the V and J budget. However, I would point out that the Disputes Committee on Consumer Affairs is a private organisation that provides quick dispute settlement to consumers who have complaints about companies belonging to affiliated industries. I have a quick look at it, but I think I have answered the various questions on security and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u228	Before I give the floor to Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that these are practical questions but also practical answers. So I don't want any lengthy introductions or reflections. You really need to address the questions and the answers that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u229	I'm going to do my best, Madam President. I could make a whole speech about religious freedom, which is very close to my heart. However, it is good that the cabinet says that it really wants to keep it going. At the same time, religious freedom is never unlimited, for example when it comes to foreign financing. That's what my question is about. Chamberwide, from SP to VVD, from CDA to Christian Union and everything in between, has always been said: we really want to take steps in this respect. The first motions were tabled over three years ago. If the Prime Minister says again: we're going to look very closely again and we're going to study again, we're going to have the WODC do another investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u230	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u231	When are concrete steps being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u232	Of course, steps have already been taken. Steps have been taken in the area of transparency of funding. It needs to be magnified. Steps have been taken regarding the role of the AIVD in foreign money flows. It is really a very precise issue with on the one hand banning funding by terrorist organisations and on the other hand financing by non-terrorist organisations. That first one's not a problem. We all agree on that. But the second is really a very sensitive issue, because it is also directly rubbing with freedom of religion. So that is a nuanced subject, and we are going to deal with it in a nuanced way in the letter as to how best to respond to the various views of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u233	I asked a very specific question. How does the Cabinet view the introduction of the principle of reciprocity? We maintain freedom of religion. It is open to anyone who lives here and wants to make use of it, but it is not open to people from non-free countries where this freedom of religion does not apply and who subsequently want to use our freedom. Here comes the frontier of religious freedom. What would the Prime Minister say about introducing that principle, that reciprocity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u234	We need to know exactly where this funding comes from. We shall also deal with this in that letter. Is that funding from the government or from organisations from such a country? We are, of course, particularly interested in those situations in which funding leads to an influence on behaviour that does not fit in with the Dutch democratic rule of law. It's really a nuanced debate. You can't just say: we don't accept funding from Saudi Arabia or Qatar. You're really gonna have to look very closely at whether the money comes from the government or from organizations and whether you can maybe ban all of that. We want to map that very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u235	I heard the Deputy Prime Minister speak about this and he said: I think we are approaching the moment when we need to take steps, with all caution about the freedoms that are dear and dear to us. I believe that we are indeed approaching the moment when we need to take steps on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u236	I repeat that to him, but I also repeat that we must put it very carefully on paper, because it affects freedom of religion and it is worth a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u237	I'd like to get a commitment from the Prime Minister. I understand that he is no longer able to say anything about research into salafistic organizations at the moment. However, I would like to be promised that we will get the results of this research well in front of the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u238	That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u239	Let's see if that's feasible. I shall come back to that in the second term. I don't want to make a commitment that official will say, "What have you done?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u240	I have another question that concerns the Disputes Committee. The Prime Minister says we need to cut back. However, it is a relatively small amount. Last year the Chamber unanimously said: Minister, you are now going to make a mistake; you should not do this, because this is going to cost a lot more money. The good thing about the Disputes Committee is that it can prevent a lot of lawsuits. If you can avoid a problem with a dispute settlement committee, you don't go to court. They're already under so much pressure. If you can use a relatively small amount of money to prevent all these lawsuits, it seems to me to be in both interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u241	The tricky thing is that the Disputes Commission is a private organisation, which is there for consumers who have complaints about companies belonging to affiliated industries. That also means that we must also be realistic in saying that these sectors have a competitive advantage with this provision. Moreover, the costs are already largely borne by industry and complainants together. The commitment of the cabinet policy is to make that 100% in the long run, starting in 2019. So we are faced with a situation in which these sectors also have a competitive advantage in that provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u242	We had that discussion last year. Last year they were exactly the same arguments of the cabinet. Then the Chamber unanimously said that this was unwise and amended it and reversed it for 2016. It's about a few tons for 2017, so what are we talking about? It's just a little beer. The Chamber was very clear about that. If you can avoid so many lawsuits, I really advise the Prime Minister to speak to the Minister of V and J, who is behind him, and say to the Chamber in second term: we are going to solve it. Then the whole Chamber does not have to amend it again at the next budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u243	But we want to make choices, including in this budget, for the things that are really essential now, including for the safety of the Netherlands. For that, we just have to make choices. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u244	Speaking of security, does the Prime Minister remember how many times the Chamber spoke before the summer about the shortage of military prosecutors at Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u245	I didn't exactly remember how many times, but we definitely talked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u246	To be precise: in January, in May and just before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u247	Yes, several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u248	In August, the press release "Marechaussee cannot handle work at Schiphol Airport" appeared. Once again, our question was: why? The cabinet told us: "The additional measures announced by the competent authority required additional capacity, because the growth of passenger numbers could not be foreseen." Can the Prime Minister explain to me why everyone had this picture of the overworked military force, where people who had not been trained directly for it, when at least three times before the summer had been asked by my group to do something about the shortage of capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u249	I know how well Mr Pechtold has been introduced into this subject and how much he attaches to it. I could improvise now. The question wasn't asked yesterday. I ask for permission to answer that question in the second term, so that I can fully serve Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u250	I look forward to the answer, but in the meantime we have received all kinds of letters from the cabinet. This is another typical example of words versus deeds. We have spent the whole year from January to the summer drawing attention to a shortage of marshalssees. This doesn't just have to do with the working pressure of the marshalssees. People who fly in summer want not only the image but also the security of a safe airport. The cabinet had to take emergency measures this summer and decide after the summer that there was a shortage. I would like to hear more about this in second term, but it fits back into the list of 'Rutte calls, but does nothing'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u251	No, that's really bullshit; that's not right. We're about to make that visible in the second term. I would like to serve Mr Pechtold entirely, because he is entitled to do so. However, the question was not asked yesterday, so I do not have the latest state of affairs on this subject, but it will certainly succeed for the second time. I'm coming to the care department. I shall begin with the plan presented by Mr Roemer on the new healthcare system. Can I say a few things about that? I think we should note that the plan is not finished. That is what Mr Roemer himself said. There are still uncertainties and there is still a lack of financial support. We can therefore call on Mr Roemer to mention this in the package leaflet when he talks about the plan. Otherwise people might think that this is completely finished and that it can be done this way. I don't think so. What's the situation? The Socialist Party is proposing a major change in the system, with transition costs somewhere between 5.3 and 8 billion a year. That's what the Central Planning Office calculated. This was discussed in detail in yesterday's debate. We are convinced that such a change in the system will not solve the problems that remain in the care sector. The OECD also says that no system systematically performs better than other systems, but that it is about the implementation, the way in which you deal with health care. Moreover, the way in which we have regulated healthcare in the Netherlands scores internationally well. We are not talking about care for the elderly, we are talking about hospital care, we are talking about the general practitioner and everything related to it, we are talking about care for the neighbourhood. It is a fact that the implementation of the current system of health care scores internationally. We have been at the top of the Euro Health Consumer Index for years, while spending in the Netherlands on the Health Insurance Act is quite average. So you get a lot of value for your money. I would like to mention a few misconceptions that were in Mr Roemer's speech. Firstly, I can assure him that the current system does not divide into types of insured person, because everyone can take out health insurance regardless of age and health. People have the ability to choose an insurance that suits them as a person. Mutual solidarity keeps the premium affordable here. It is remarkable that low incomes currently pay less than with the sickness fund. They now pay about €464 and that was €544 in 2005. So it is now €80 less than in 2005, as was argued yesterday. Secondly, healthcare costs have not increased since the introduction of the Health Insurance Act. Before introduction, the average real expenditure growth was 3.2%. Just in the past year, the growth of this hospital care, curative care expenditure, was very controlled. In the past cabinet period, that was only 1.3%. This is still a growth, but much more so at the level at which the economy is growing. Of course, anything can be said about bureaucracy. This is often referred to as a 2010 KPMG study. It is said that this would show that caregivers would be working on bureaucracy 38% of their time. This study shows that caregivers are working 38% of their time on non-care tasks. However, this also involves all kinds of other things, such as contact with family, cooperation with colleagues and personnel policy. So you can't just say that that's all bureaucracy. As far as the power of health insurers is concerned, I assure Mr Roemer that in the end a national health fund will also have to make choices when buying care and make demands on healthcare providers in terms of price and quality. Nor can a national health fund allow expenditure to increase unbridledly. Of course, those who look after the costs will also be the bogeyman. This applies both to the current system and to the system that Mr Roemer wants. Those are the insurers now; when Mr Roemer gets his way, that's NZF. I wonder whether the national health insurance fund will do the care purchase better than the care purchase that is currently taking place by the health insurance companies. There will then be no incentive for the fund to do better than others. I should like to point out that, despite their considerable expansions, health insurance companies are more efficient than the old sickness funds. The management costs were 3,7% in 2014. In 2004, when the sickness fund was still in existence, these costs were 3.9%. If a large government moloch, such a state-socialist body that is rigged with it, is to manage billions of money flows, it will undoubtedly end up with a whole bunch of bureaucracy. That's what we see in history. These were a number of constructive comments on the proposals of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u252	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u253	Not with the care. I have a few more questions to answer, because a question has also been asked about one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u254	You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u255	The suggestion has been made to eliminate one's own risk. I believe it is known that the cabinet is not planning to do so. Its own risk is not a fine for being ill, but rather co-finances the costs of care. It also makes people aware of the cost of care. Of the total healthcare costs of whole people, the own risk is a fraction. Abolition is not free either. It would cost almost 4 billion or €284 per insured person per year. It is important to realise that a great deal of care does not come under our own risk. I repeat: the general practitioner's care, the care of the neighbourhood, children under 18 years old, maternity care and midwife care are not at risk. We need to avoid the fear that all of these things are covered. We can also say a great deal about the coverage provided by the SP for the elimination of own risk, but also about the extension of the package. There's still a lot of holes in that cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u256	I didn't expect the Prime Minister to embrace the plan. That also makes the difference between his party and mine. The Prime Minister is deaf to what is happening in society when it comes to care. Not only does that play in my party, but a very broad movement stands up against the incredibly growing bureaucracy in the care sector. If the Prime Minister does not believe that, I would ask him to agree here that we should investigate, in curative care, the rising bureaucracy and what it actually means. The Minister has been refusing to do that research year after year. Doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists all complain that the power of the health insurance companies is huge and that the health insurance companies are actually in the office. That is a fundamentally different choice. It is in the plans, which are indeed in the scaffolding, that we do not turn care into a market, but rather a public task. That is the fundamental difference between the Prime Minister and the SP. That is what the national health fund is about, and that is what the new starting point is about. In the one and a half hours we discussed this yesterday, 6,000 people were added to support it. It lives wide, even within the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u257	People's concerns tend to focus on changes in care for the elderly. We are now talking about replacing the health insurers with this new device that the Socialist Party wants to establish. As far as market forces are concerned, the SP very often cites OECD research. The Socialist Party says OECD figures would show that private insurers are more expensive than public ones. Then it becomes interesting, because this is an entirely misleading explanation for the Dutch situation. OECD considers the Dutch basic insurance to be a public insurance, not a private insurance. Only the supplementary insurance characterises the OECD as private. We will not agree today, I think, but we await the further development of the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u258	I'd like to take another shot anyway. It's not so much the SP complaining. We complain and come up with an alternative because three quarters of society says that the system is not today. Market forces in care lead to the large power block of health insurers and to management layers in hospitals. Every year since the introduction of market forces, 12% more management layers have been added in hospitals, to give an example. We come up with this plan because we have the support of so many healthcare professionals, from specialists to district nurses. People find that the power of health insurers has become far too great. I had hoped for a reaction from the cabinet that it would join in to get the system in order together, as the cabinet hears the same noises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u259	Yes, but those sounds I hear more about, for example, the nursing home care.................................................................................................................................................. Unfortunately, there are also examples of places where that went less well. A great deal is being done about this. The general picture of hospital care, curative care, which I get from research, from my own environment and from society, is that it is incredibly high, regardless of whether you go to the hospital with a minor condition or something very serious. I have also just experienced this privately in my own environment a few times with friends. The quality is enormous. If there are any problems, I agree that we need to deal with them. Then the question is whether we are doing this by destroying everything that is going on or following the OECD, which says that it is not in the system, but in adjusting the system. When we change the system, all the attention goes to that. That costs billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u260	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u261	Finally. It is in that, because the fundamental difference is whether you see care as a market with maximum profit, profit distribution and competition. That is the starting point of a market. That's great for refrigerators, but not for care. There must be cooperation in the care sector, in order to work together and with several disciplines, without competition between hospitals. Then you make the care cheaper and more efficient. My question is still whether the Prime Minister is prepared to launch an investigation into the growing bureaucracy in curative care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u262	We are looking at every possible way to contain and reduce bureaucracy, but to add bureaucracy to bureaucracy is, in my view, the last thing we should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u263	I, too, choose not to talk about systems, systems and bureaucracy at the moment. If there's anything you can do, that's fine. Let me just say with respect, because the SP has a name in it, that I liked her saying that its own contribution, which has been increased in a time of crisis, is payable for some people........................................................................................................................................................................... There is no discipline or inhibiting effect on it. I found the contribution of Secretary of State Van Rijn very interesting in this respect. He doesn't want to say if the system is social or antisocial, he just wants to look at those groups. So we are not talking about systems, and perhaps not about billions, but about a very targeted measure that allows us to say to the House that this own contribution is not intended for that purpose, but can be a relief. If the Prime Minister says that he will take the financial considerations with the Chamber into account, we can settle something about the quality of a group of people rather than talking about the system here for a very long time. We will probably do so for a very long time in the elections. Is the cabinet prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u264	I always want to be honest, Mr. Pechtold. I wouldn't be for that for an important reason. I understand what Mr Pechtold is saying, and it also sounds sympathetic, but he assumes that the risk of it has only one purpose, and that is to make people aware of the cost of care. That's not the only purpose. Its own risk has two objectives. It co-finances the healthcare costs and yes, it also makes people aware of the healthcare costs. The other objective, which is to co-finance the total cost of care, means that for people who do indeed benefit from a great deal of care that €385 is an inevitable, but also a fraction of the total cost of care they receive. It is part of the total compensation. So you can't just disconnect it and say that it's just a means of slowing down access to care. It is also part of the financing of the whole pot, the whole cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u265	I get that. I apologize for confusing my own risk and my own contribution. However, that has happened to someone before. It's not about your own risk. That's so appealing to the SP's discussion. It's a discussion of people who don't know all those numbers and not all those big moves. I understand that there can be no interruption, but I am still looking for room to take another step, in line with the statement made by the Secretary of State. I will not hold him to it if he has done so on behalf of the cabinet, but I think it is an interesting and creative remark. I thought, "That man knows what he's doing." His partymate's at the Treasury, and that's always taken with him. Because they're choices. The cabinet has allocated money for security and other matters, but this point now appears to be very topical. We must also have the courage to look at current events. Then we can also show that we take this discussion seriously, but that we do not want system changes in the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u266	I understand what Mr Pechtold is saying, but on the contrary, I am very reluctant to do so. That is because it is also part of the total funding. It is also linked to the health care allowance, which is going up and which partly compensates for this. If you look at what people lose at the minimum per month with this rising care allowance, that is always an amount of money, of course, and with that income everything is a lot of money that is in itself an amount that you can still handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u267	I do not want to be too faint about the differences between the Labour Party and the VVD when it comes to its own risk, but in recent weeks it has become clear that the high own risk leads to avoiding care. This can lead to higher spending in the future. In that you must see an argument to really do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u268	I would like to come to Mr Pechtold for a final answer. The care allowance largely compensates for the own risk to low incomes. It is often claimed that one's own risk leads to care avoidance, but the care allowance largely compensates for one's own risk to low incomes. Then it is also the case that municipalities offer collective insurance, with lower incomes being able to re-insure one's own risk. Healthcare providers also offer the possibility to pay for their own risk. I will stick to that first point: the care allowance largely compensates for its own risk to low incomes. We had a concession for people, if there was a need to compensate for the own risk: the Compensation own risk (Cer). It's been abolished, because it didn't work. This is precisely decentralised to the municipalities, so that they have more resources to provide tailor-made solutions to compensate for their own risk. I sincerely believe that we have the right instruments to prevent our own risk leading to a lack of care. It is claimed that so much care would be avoided. The source for that claim is usually a survey of the Commonwealth Fund, conducted between 2010 and 2014. The Nivel report on care avoidance states that 3% of people do not go to the general practitioner because of follow-up costs. The general practitioner himself is out of his own risk, but that is because of the follow-up costs. It is in line with previous findings, because it has not increased, while its own risk has increased, that it is 3%. In the meantime, we have already taken additional measures, such as the increase in the healthcare allowance to compensate for one's own risk, so I think we have a balanced policy here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u269	Surely it must be possible to map out between now and the budget treatment how many people we are talking about, as with our own contribution to the Wmo? Let me just expose it: there is also something political in it that I do not think it is necessary for us to be opposed to each other in terms of the system or the system changes. All these people are thinking, "Oh, the whole room is almost against it, why would that be?" They see the problems of the chronically ill and disabled. I also get emails that people are already in trouble in January. It's okay for us to do something about it. You can criticize Roemer for wanting a whole system change. But if there is a target group that is at risk of falling out of the boat, when it comes to quality and accessibility, if it really has a major financial problem and may even become a care avoider, even if it does not indeed apply to the general practitioner, then I think you should look at it. The Prime Minister says there may be money to be distributed again. In the Chamber there is a broad desire to do something about this. My specific question is to identify what we are talking about. Then we also know how to deal with this financially. That could be a nice outcome of this APB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u270	I shall come back to the request to map it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u271	This system change is about to take place, even if some parties are afraid of it. There is no such thing in society anymore, so that's just a matter of time. I'll come back to my own contribution. The own contribution is, in principle, wrong. The Prime Minister says it's co-financing, like you have a choice to get sick or not. Some people even have chronic illness. So they have no choice at all, but they know one thing for sure: they are screwed every year and have to pay the whole of their own risk. Does the Prime Minister not agree with me that co-financing is only genuine if you can choose to make use of something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u272	The own contribution is part of the financing. We know that for the people on low incomes the concerns about care avoidance by them are the greatest.the care allowance largely compensates for its own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u273	I had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u274	It has to come from the length or width. If you want to abolish it, it costs 4 billion. Mr Roemer knows that too. It's got to come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u275	I had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u276	I will answer the question of principle with that. So I think it's basically...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u277	Don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u278	My question was whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that getting sick is not a choice of his own. You don't say, "What am I gonna do today? Oh, let me go to the hospital; I'll have an X-ray taken there." That's not gonna happen. You come to the GP, for which you do not have to pay your own risk. The GP finds out something and has to refer you to a specialist. That doesn't cheer you up, because you don't want to see a doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u279	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u280	You don't have that choice. If you don't have that choice, it's a fine on being sick. It is therefore fundamentally wrong to ask for an extra contribution from those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u281	Isn't that even true for the premium? Surely we should propose to finance the whole of health care from general taxation in future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u282	Preferably.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u283	That seems extremely unwise to me. Then you have all the dolls dancing, but that is the consistent reasoning. The aim is not only to prevent people from using the care without thinking about it, because in the examples mentioned by Mr Roemer, that is not at all the issue. Yesterday the example was mentioned of someone who broke his wrist while cycling or someone who had to have a picture taken of his liver. In all these cases, I only have one call: do so. Then you know that if problems arise afterwards, municipalities look at payment arrangements in every possible way. But don't avoid that concern. Of course you'll have that picture taken. Of course, you'll take that broken wrist to the referee doctor and be referred to a specialist if you need to. The picture that emerges here is that this care allowance should not be part of a co-financing of the cost of care, in thinking about it and in its intention. The abolition of this simply leads to an increase of almost €300 in the premium. We have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u284	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u285	The question of principle remains. Do we want to ask people who do not choose to be sick, for example, chronically ill, but that applies to everyone asking them to pay a fine because they have to go to a specialist? That's a question ahead of you. The cabinet keeps saying, "Yes, you have to." In fact, maybe that fine on being sick after this reign even goes to €500. It is a fundamental choice and not just for those who cannot pay this fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u286	I disagree. I believe that it is made far too difficult for this to be considered a fundamental choice. Ultimately, there is one choice: how do we ensure that care is financed? We know that an average family in the Netherlands has lost €11,000 per year to care. €11,000! That's almost a quarter of the income now. If we don't do something, it'll go up to half the income in 2040. It's already a quarter of the income. So that's going up like hell. That is why we must take all the measures necessary to ensure that this is taken fairly and that we are also able to control the increase in these costs, while maintaining the quality of the work done by the cabinet. Because that contributes to the certainty of people that not only the AOW and not only the house but also the health care at this high level in the Netherlands are affordable in the long term. That's what we have to stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u287	That's the macro story. Mr Pechtold's question was to take a very specific look at the group for which it hurts extra. For the chronically ill, care costs have doubled over the last five years. The relevant investigation is there. The question is to take a very specific look at that group. I thought Secretary of State Van Rijn said we should look into that for that group. Then there is an implicit promise from the cabinet to look at the cost of that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u288	You can make that distinction between Mr Pechtold and others; I understand that. I would point out, however, that this ignores the fact that the total cost of health care must be covered. In the total sum, on top of the basic insurance, the own risk is about €300. If you completely abolish that, you should add €300. If you abolish it only for groups, it will go up. Somehow you're gonna have to find that money. I will come back to the question of whether we can map it. I don't know if that's technically possible, so I'll get back to you on that. I would like to inform you that my reluctance to do so is extremely great, as this would ultimately lead to an increase in the cost of basic insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u289	This has just been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u290	The Nibud has been investigating this. So if the Prime Minister is going to look at groups, I should like to remind him of that. I also ask him to look at the role of one's own risk. That should be a threshold. But if you're chronically ill, that threshold doesn't work. Because someone like that doesn't have a choice. So let the Prime Minister take a very specific look at the group where the most pain is being suffered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u291	That was also Mr Pechtold's question. My reaction was that I understand his reasoning from one of the two purposes of one's own risk, namely to ensure that people use care very consciously. Indeed, that does not work for that group of people, because they have no choice, they have to use care. I therefore fully understand the points made by Mr Pechtold and Mr Segers. However, I would like to point out that there is another purpose of our own risk: to co-finance health care costs in general. From that perspective, you can't just exclude groups, because that would make basic insurance more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u292	The Prime Minister uses two arguments that do not stand. First of all, he pretends to be some kind of gay economist who is very conscious about care costs. I wish. The Prime Minister is right: you can agree payment arrangements, the municipality can help and the GP is not within its own risk. Yet we see that people avoid caring. That should be enough to bring the scheme into line. The second argument mentioned by the Prime Minister is to reduce the cost of care. I think we are all concerned about rising healthcare costs here. Because they're not good for anyone. They often come from overtreatment. The braking effect due to its own risk, so if it reduces people's use of care, is very limited. What works much better are the healthcare agreements agreed by the Minister of Health. That is the way we must go. If we say together that we should not continue with this own risk, there will therefore need to be more care agreements, so that there is less overtreatment or that pharmaceutical products deserve less. That's the way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u293	For example, we are entering into the extremely thin coverage that the Socialist Party has put forward for the elimination of its own risk: savings on overhead, savings on bureaucracy, the central purchasing of medicines. That's all really thin; if you analyze that coverage, there's really nothing left. The Socialist Party also believes that the basic package should be extended by 2.5 billion. We cannot go to a country where politicians simply say: higher wages and lower prices. It doesn't work that way; we'll have to make choices. I understand what Mr. Klaver is saying. Certainly the chronically ill have no choice, so they are not made aware of their own risks. But its own risk doesn't just have that purpose. It also aims to ensure that the total costs are financed. That is why Mr Pechtold is not proposing to abolish it altogether, but only for a group. Nevertheless, this will undoubtedly have a significant upward effect on the basic premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u294	I'm Jesse Klaver from GroenLinks, not the SP. So that's not my plan. I myself am also critical of the basis of the plan. Nevertheless, I make another point. If you want, abolishing your own risk is best to pay. So that's not the point. The arguments put forward by the Prime Minister are actually not correct. You can see that people aren't using care right now because they're afraid of their own risk. That should be a reason to get out of it. I call on the Minister to do so, to finance it. For me, this can be done from other means of taxation, but also by making more savings in other areas of care, for example by combating overtreatment. That's not something I'm making up. I believe that this is one of the things that his own Minister for Health has succeeded very well in the past cabinet period. That is the way forward. Don't let the Prime Minister think he can cut back on care by raising people's awareness of healthcare costs. We see in the calculations that care costs increase by about 0.8% if their own risk is eliminated. I think you can easily get that amount with new care agreements and by countering overtreatment. Everyone agrees that this is a much better way to keep care affordable in the Netherlands than by saying to people who get sick: pay it out of your own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u295	In the coming years, it will be quite a challenge to continue with the care agreements. We will have to find new ways of achieving the savings in terms of content. That will have to be done, because it is a good way to control the cost of care. I imagine that another Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport will continue to do so. However, it is complicated and will therefore require choices. There's no other way. Mr Roemer said that he wants to save 750 million by, among other things, purchasing drugs centrally, but then nothing can happen. That's not gonna save you $750 million. The points raised by Mr Klaver will all be necessary: you will all need the type of posts that are already more constructive in order to be able to continue the care agreements. However, if you are going to use those posts to finance the abolition of your own risk of 4 billion, you are going to make a huge hole, as healthcare costs continue to increase. Apart from the idea that you need to make people aware of the costs of care, it has to do with the fact that the costs of care are high; I also say this to Mr Wilders, who said something about this yesterday. Those care costs have to be paid in one way or another. There is no other way; we have to finance them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u296	The Prime Minister and I often disagree strongly on many points. It's freaking out a lot, and that's okay at all. I do not think, however, that we should disagree on one point, apart from the important debate on our own risk: how we deal with the elderly in the Netherlands. I have difficulty with the fact that the cuts in home care and the closure of nursing homes often lead to distressing situations. That affects the weakest in our society, because what can you do now if you become old and needy? Nothing at all. Older, confused people get out on the street and are more often picked off the street; I have already said that in the first term. Demented people in degrading circumstances receive no or insufficient care. People in wheelchairs are advised to mop their own floors. I have hundreds of examples that I'm not going to give all those who are unworthy of a civilized country. That's not how you treat your elders. I don't think this is possible. We can easily differ on a lot of things in Dutch politics and, again, that is a good thing too, but not about the elderly. They now get less home care while the Prime Minister says they have to stay home longer. He not only closes the nursing homes, which I already disagree with, but also takes away some of the home care and there are no extra hands on the bed for nursing home care either. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: step over all political differences for a moment. Doesn't he think that we should treat our elderly a little more decently and reverse the cuts in home care and nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u297	That is why it is good news that we have managed to defend one by itself but extremely complicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u298	Can you calm down in the hall? It's almost impossible to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u299	That is why it is a good thing that we were able to defend this measure when we took it, but when you look at it, it turns out that it is a very fragile, sensitive austerity that has now been removed, thanks to the fact that the economy is improving. That's half a billion dollars. That is why it is a good thing that EUR 200 million extra goes to nursing homes for daily use and professionalisation of staff. I agree with Mr Wilders: our older people deserve the best care. It's the people who built the country after the war. They now expect much more customization. Some stay at home and have a stair lift installed; others, with a rather heavy need for care, go to a nursing home. There are all kinds of choices in that. Fortunately, thanks to the Wmo, this can also be done now thanks to the space that municipalities have, thanks to the fact that we have very good nursing homes in the Netherlands. I therefore agree with Mr Wilders. If things don't go well in this, if there are examples of things that have to be different, then I'd like to hear it from him and then I'd ask the Secretary of State at VWS to dive in. I visit a lot of these houses. I also see things in my own environment. I am impressed by Dutch nurses and nursing care. There is a tremendous amount of work done by very special people, including in home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u300	There is certainly a tremendous amount of work being done by the heroes of the Netherlands, just like those agents and soldiers. If you work in healthcare, you are one of the heroes of the Netherlands. However, you have cut 75,000 jobs there. For the people in the care it is not "jobs, jobs, jobs" but I would almost say "tear, tears, tears." I've also visited many of those old people's homes. Apart from bureaucracy and complaints that other colleagues come up with, you see and hear that during night shifts there is often one nurse on 40 to 50 elderly people and that this leads to irresponsible things. There are also houses where things are going well, which should not be forgotten, but in the Netherlands we have a chronic lack of attention for our older people. We cannot allow a cut to continue to be seen as an investment. It's nice that that cut is gone, but there should be extra hands, as far as I'm concerned, 10,000 extra hands on those beds. Perhaps you will not be able to reopen the nursing homes you have closed, but at least don't close any more! Keep them open, those 10,000 to 15,000 places out there! If you want to keep people at home, don't cut home care! It's not too much to ask. This is the decency of the Netherlands. It is about the people who have made our country great and who deserve our care and respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u301	I agree that these are the heroes, along with the policemen, the firefighters, the teachers, the people in the field who are doing crucial work for this whole society. I also agree that there are a lot of houses where things are going well. I'm interested in why things are going well there, with the same budget. I was in Wezep a while ago, in a house for people suffering from dementia. I have seen what people could achieve there, with the existing budget and the application of all normal rules, without all kinds of strange external sources of money, in short, with the normal sources of funding. You don't want that disease. It's very bad, of course, if you have dementia. But if that happened, you'd be glad to have such a house. They do that by dealing with people in a very respectful way and letting them do what they can. The cost in such a house, for example, also sits in the supply of food. They have set up a small supermarket there and the people themselves, internally in that house, go shopping, which can save on a number of logistical costs. At the same time, it ensures that people remain active and participate. I found it incredibly precious and beautiful how that is possible with the existing sources of money. It was a few years ago and I hope the house still works at this level. I have no indication that this is not the case. I almost thought, if this happens to me, I'd like to sign up for it. So that's possible. In this respect, I agree with Mr Wilders. It's really not about spending more money. We are spending a great deal of money on care for the elderly, also in comparison to the world market, and rightly so, but it is also about how we can spend it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u302	I do not want to detract from the fine examples of the Prime Minister, but there are quite other examples, and unfortunately they are also common. There are examples of nursing homes where people have to be drugged in their own urine at the end of their lives, because there is insufficient staff. That is also the Netherlands today! I do not think that we should have a Netherlands where elderly people are drugged and put to bed at the age of 80 or 90, because there is insufficient staff. Certainly, there are good examples, I am not taking them away from you, because I am also proud of them, but there are too many bad examples, which we must say: there must be more hands on the bed, there must be more heroes to give good care to those elderly people who deserve our respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u303	I think that we should look at why it is possible in so many cases and in some cases not. If you spend a lot of extra money on the cases where it doesn't work out, you make it easy for that management. I'd rather take extra money upstairs, take management and say, "Why can't you do it and they can?" It seems possible with the existing resources, which are indeed very broad. A few short questions have been asked about health care. I can say about the report on life completed that the Minister of the United States has informed the Chamber that he is in the process of responding to that report from the Committee of Wise Men. We need a little more time for that and want to send it to the Chamber this autumn. Then about the Non Invasive Prenatal Test. As a result of Mr Van der Staaij's remark, I can say that everyone is welcome. Everyone's worth being here. Prenatal screening is not intended to evoke the feeling that people with Down syndrome should not be there. I see Mr Segers coming forward now. I have just addressed Mr Van der Staaij, but that should probably have been Mr Segers. The Non Invasive Prenatal Test is a test without the risk of miscarriage and it is a test that gives a better prediction than the combination test. In the end, it remains a personal choice to screen or not. The same applies to the question of what parents want to do with the information they get from this test. It is very important to me that there is no misunderstanding that people with Down syndrome are fully included in the Netherlands. I really want to emphasise that. There's no way we're gonna compromise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u304	Have you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u305	There is one more question from the VVD about the 10 million for top sport. As is well known, 10 million are being released for top sport. That includes disability top sport. There is currently a total of 38 million available for top sport. In the short term, the government will consult the sports sector on the use of funds. The Court shall be informed as soon as there are concrete plans for the use of the additional funds. In addition, the policy article sport on the budget of VWS will also be reviewed in 2017. This review may lead to changes in the use of available resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u306	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u307	Very good...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u308	No, I gave Mr Segers the opportunity to interrupt. It was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u309	Thank you. The NIP test on Down's syndrome is indeed a very sensitive theme. I'm trying to choose my words very well. First, let me make a brief personal remark. I know that the Prime Minister means it when he says that everyone is welcome, even in a very personal sense. I took Jitse to the turret. He had one wish: to visit the Prime Minister once. The door was wide open and we had a wonderful meeting. So I know how and what the Prime Minister's heart is beating for. At the same time, this is a very sensitive issue. We really think differently about that test and generally offer it. The debate on this will continue with the Minister. Can I at least have the commitment that when that test is offered, good information from the parent association about what it means to live with someone with Down syndrome is available? We need to surround the offering of that test with all the guarantees we can come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u310	I hear behind me that this has already been promised. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u311	I have one last specific question. I am really talking about a position for the parent association. Those parents should be able to tell what it means to live with a kid who has Down's syndrome. They need to be able to tell their stories so that there's a realistic picture of life with someone with Down. Can that promise be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u312	I hear they're already getting involved in shaping the information material.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u313	This point comes back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u314	It is true that the Prime Minister also mentioned my name, because Mr Segers and I both addressed this point in the first term. I think it is important to say that it is not just a technical VWS debate. It is also a debate about values in society. It is good that the Prime Minister also explicitly says that these people are also very welcome in our society. Does he understand the concern of parents who say: you read more and more in newspapers stories about how much such a child costs if you let it be born anyway; and you can get rid of it? There is a formal freedom of choice, but in practice there may also be a pressure on choice. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u315	In fact, here is a bit of the discussion we had before. This is a standard. That standard is that everyone counts and that we are not going to look at the costs of one or the other. This is so fundamental. I am so glad that Mr Van der Staaij is saying this, so that I also have the opportunity to say that again as Prime Minister. I am very pleased that Mr Van der Staaij has made that clear. I'm sure this applies to all of us. Someone who is sick or someone who is born with Down's syndrome, everyone counts. Of course, we're not gonna see if anyone's a cost. If that becomes our society, I'm out of here. So that's not what we're gonna do. It is a fundamental value in our society. I'm putting it again here, with the support of Van der Staaij and I'm sure of the whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u316	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer to the question on top sport. There's gonna be an effect on the VWS minister. We also heard very briefly the Minister of Finance at RTL Late Night. He indicated that this will be done in consultation with NOC*NSF. I ask the cabinet not to necessarily take the route with only NOC*NSF, but also to look at the role of sports associations in terms of top sport and the extra money. If that could be taken into account in the impact, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u317	We will look at it widely and consult widely. Now I'm going to go to education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u318	Before you go any further...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u319	I'd like a short break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u320	I will suspend the sitting in a moment at the request of the Prime Minister, but first I will inform the Chamber that the Chamber has just received the calculations of the Central Planning Office on purchasing power development requested yesterday by Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u321	This document will also be distributed to members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u322	The Prime Minister will continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u323	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u324	I see that Mr Klaver has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mr. Chairman. We have just been treated to the results requested by the Prime Minister, among others. Like the cabinet, the Minister of Finance, he indicated that the gossip was and that calculations would not be entirely correct, so the way we had calculated purchasing power. We asked the CPB to check that out. I can only say that we have done just fine. Perhaps not very good, because the CPB shows that it was a bit more divided than we ourselves saw and that it was therefore a little too conservatively calculated. Maybe the Prime Minister can come back to the words he just used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u326	That's exactly what I said this morning. What GroenLinks is doing in those calculations is also what the CPB is looking at right now.It's looking at the total, so both what the cabinet is doing and what is happening in the economy. That's what I said this morning. I have literally read it to you once more, because I have always been very careful in saying: 'Green Left gives the impression that high incomes have improved €3,000 to €4,000 more than low incomes due to the policy of the cabinet. The facts show that this is mainly due to the increase in wages they have had from their employer, not because the cabinet has put so much extra money into these groups, quite the contrary." So this is not government policy. This is just what the economy does, not cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u327	I don't need to repeat this discussion. These are the figures that have been asked for. Here we show that the calculations we are making are perfectly correct and, more importantly, that they were somewhat conservative. Let me say this to the Prime Minister: in 2012 you might have been able to win elections with bluff poker and sometimes a bit of a ruse and cheating and throw away the left, those were the days; that is not going to happen anymore, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u328	What does this have to do with those numbers? One more time, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, we've been asking for those numbers together. The request was to show what is now the overall income development over those different median groups. Then you'll see this. That's just the development of low mortgage interest rates, what happens with salary increases and all that kind of stuff. This is not government policy. Really, Mr. Clover. I told you this morning we'd have to go to a guided wage policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Klaver just used some pretty tough words. That is why I would ask the Prime Minister if he could repeat what he said this morning about the consequences for taxes if we did what Mr Klaver is doing here. What was it again? 80 to 90%, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u330	Now we have to be very precise. I am pleased that you are asking, Mr Zijlstra. I shall read out my answer this morning: if they think it unfair that high incomes with the same increase in wages receive more euros from their employer, they should, in their plans, go to a rate of tax, you were right, Mr Zijlstra, from 80% to 90% in order to remove those wage increases from people who work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr Klaver, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u332	A very nice one-two, you know. However, I believe that the proposal we have made shows that this is total nonsense. Total bullshit. What we are showing is that we are ensuring that the benefits given to higher incomes are redirected back to the general tax rebate so that everyone benefits from it, including those on benefits and those on the lowest incomes. That is what we are doing, and that has nothing to do with 80% tax rates. Oh, go...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u333	This is a bit of a rerun this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u334	It's a bit of a rerun this morning, isn't it? You're actually going to see what, if you count everything, the effects are on what people end up getting in their wallets, especially the disposable income they have left. What are the economics, collective agreements and government policies working together? We have already said that over the last 15 years 80% of people's purchasing power has fallen and that the 20% richest have improved. The question is, therefore, GroenLinks and the SP have come up with these proposals if you can change that trend as a cabinet. Yeah, you can. Do you want to change it? Then GroenLinks and the SP say yes and then this cabinet under the leadership of the VVD says no, then we let the income differences grow further and those differences become greater because of any influences. We do not accept that. We are in favour of a fairer distribution. We come up with proposals to this end, and these proposals prove to be sound and correct. That you disagree and that you don't want to, that's right, because I know who your friends are. That's what we want, and you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u335	It is really wrong that only the 20% richest have gone up. Over the cabinet period the average purchasing power of households has increased at all levels of income. This is particularly true for low-income workers, who have improved greatly. They're going to pay a lot less tax. The single worker at the level of the statutory minimum wage received almost 13% of this cabinet period. The decline in disposable income, which Mr Roemer refers to here, occurred mainly in the crisis years from 2010 to 2013, when households declined across the board. Luckily, we've put that period behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u336	No, it wasn't across the board, because the 20% richest were the only ones to make significant progress throughout the period. That was also the period in which this Prime Minister was Prime Minister. Those people lost that money then, and then they lost it. This year's figures mean that people with the highest incomes are making twice as much progress in purchasing power as those with a middle and lower income. It's okay. That's up to you. We do not choose it, but do not deny it and simply say that is the choice of the VVD and the cabinet!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u337	How could that happen if the single worker during this cabinet period received 13% and is thus a sort of record holder? The single worker at the level of the statutory minimum wage is not a great earner, is it? Or is someone with the statutory minimum wage also a great earner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u338	Again, we are talking about repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u339	Mr President, that is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u340	Yes, it is, but we must continue to do so, because the Prime Minister continues to persevere. It doesn't matter what you keep putting on facts, he keeps pretending something else is going on. What the Prime Minister is trying to outline is that purchasing power is not only dependent on government policy. I would never dare say that. No one claims that at all, but you cannot say that the great income inequality we are seeing at the moment is not the result of government policy. It has to do with the choices made by the cabinet. Money has gone to higher incomes. You didn't have to. That money could have been shifted to the lowest income. That was a political choice, and I have said before: stand up for it. Increasing inequality has been a political choice of this Prime Minister. Stand up and don't sprinkle with numbers and sell falsehoods! What you're saying is just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u341	Now look at the facts. We gave 5 billion relief last year. Where did that go? That went to low-income workers. Not to high-income workers, but to low-income workers. Then look at the reduction of the general tax rebate and the labour discount. Look at what that means for the higher incomes. If you add that up, it just doesn't add up! In addition, you always have to deal with an effect of salaries, wages, mortgage interest rates and so on, but we are not about that; that is a matter for society. We are talking about what we do about purchasing power repairs. Every year, we go through them neatly. Next year it will again be neatly across the board 1% or 1.1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u342	Extending the highest tax base has nothing to do with giving money back to the lowest income. This benefits the highest incomes. That is a political choice; stand up for it! You could have given that money to the lowest income. That would be the choice we make. You don't make it. Fine, but don't pretend it's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u343	You have to tell the whole story, Mr Klaver, because there is a reduction in the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. You're gonna have to tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u344	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u345	Mr. Chairman. I come to education, because there too there are misunderstandings, in particular about how much expenditure goes to that education. In particular, Mr Pechtold asked a question about this. If we look at per pupil, we see that this cabinet period has significantly increased expenditure per pupil, from €6,200 in 2012 to €6,700 in 2017. That's for primary education. For secondary schools, it goes from €7,900 to €8,100 and for higher education and universities, for those who are there, it goes from €6,400 to €6,700. The MBO is record holder with an increase of €7,200 to €8,100. Even if you take a macro look at education spending, you can see that since 2012, spending has increased from 26.9 billion to 29.5 billion. Now Mr Pechtold has a point, namely that some 150 million still have to be filled in. This item has been included because every year there are under-exhaustments in various parts of the OCW budget. That is the case every year. This is also expected next year. In the spring note we look at where this underputting takes place, so that we can fit it in a proper way. I can see that I have entirely reassured Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u346	Were you finished with your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u347	Actually, yes, and I see Mr Pechtold looking so intensely that I would not dare go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u348	Of course, the budget is well in order, and that is thanks to the cooperation of the last few years. But we are looking very closely at what is going to end up in the schools. If you look closely at the state of this budget, we are not talking about the entire cabinet period....................................................................................................................................................................................... There has been a leak that there would be 200 million available. However, these figures show that another 150 million and 250 million have been completed, i.e. 400 million. Next on the Spring Paper, it is likely to become clear that there is less money going to school than we would all like. That is why we have decided to remove this disguised austerity from our counter-budget. It is, of course, called an estimation task or, in fact, an estimate adjustment, but people will know that the money is to be taken off. This cabinet period has really been a success when it comes to education. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister not to put this down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u349	What happens is interesting. I get that. I looked into this in detail this morning, because we always come here well prepared for the start. The lump sum target, as a rule five, is intended to cover the fallback in the spring. That is what we had to do with all the budgets. This task will then be mitigated by the priorities. As a rule, 11, you see a substantial wage adjustment. As a rule, you see extra loans for students. In line ten you see a number of cash slides. There are all kinds of changes in the educational table at the same time. I have just outlined what this means for the total. If you compare budgets for 2016 and 2017 you see that the total of the OCW budget remains at 29.5 billion. The budget remains the same and does not go down. Then you look at the children and young people in education. In the horrible jargon they're called participants, but to me they're just students. In primary education, in MBO, in HBO and in scientific education, it remains the same and only in the vo you see a very small lover. In 2016, it went from €8,000 to €8,200 and in 2017 to €8,100. That can also be rounding differences. Actually, it's pretty much the same. In 2016 and 2017 expenditure remains the same, both macro and per child and per younger person. I have outlined all the expenditure over the whole period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u350	My point is that I don't want it to stay a little bit the same. I want it to stay the same. I don't want it to be cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u351	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u352	No, because you bring all kinds of things. Yesterday I was also told in the debate with the group chairmen of the coalition that the budget is increasing. If the budget includes student loans, no student will benefit. Those are loans. It seems like a fine amount and the budget is getting higher, but it is loans to students. I'm talking about money going straight into classrooms. I don't think it's right that in the spring note, after the elections, you only make the choices to fill that out. That's just too bad. We've all made sure that education gets off well during this period. In times of crisis, we all have the mouths of language and opportunity. Those terms are central to the whole debate. I am just sorry that this ambiguity is still in the spring note. I appeal once again to the Prime Minister: don't make it a little bit the same, just make sure it stays the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u353	We do that every year. It is a budget of about 30 billion. In practice, there is always underexhaustment. That is the case with all these large budgets. Each year, at the end of the year, you see considerable underexhaustments. They'll fit in. In the spring note, you're gonna fit the $150 million. There's no reason to believe that this couldn't be done right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u354	Mr. Pechtold, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u355	I couldn't leak. There's been a leak from the cabinet that there's gonna be 200 million. However, that is not the reality that you see when you put the accounting rule along the numbers to check how much money there is right away for the schools. It can't be. That is why we have also tabled a counter-budget, which provides cover for this. When we deal with the education budget, we also come with an amendment on it when it is necessary. However, I know what the proportions are; then no one dares. Yesterday there was Samsom's outstretched hand. The PvdA is also one of those parties that stands for education. I just liked Samsom's attitude a little more. Then I thought, "Look, we can do business." You don't want to have to say to the educational country, "Look, it's a little bit the same, but it's a little bit the same."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u356	I think it's going to stay the same and we'll have to fit the 150 million normally as we do every year. Anyway, I can't make it prettier. I cannot see that we are making cuts at macro or micro level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u357	Proceed with your speech, Prime Minister. There is also a second term, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u358	That's what I thought, Mr. Chairman. I come to the question of the size of the class. I do not think that we should go into the autonomy of schools to that extent. That would be my reaction to this. You can also see that more and more other forms are taught in the classroom, including with techniques, with extra teachers and support etc. A question has also been asked about the study debt. With this advance, we choose to build a system in which more money goes into higher education and the quality of higher education, and less into income support. That's a targeted choice. If you look at how this is going to work out in practice, you can actually see that it has very neat, predictable effects and indeed more money is now being made available for the quality of higher education. That brings me to the questions that have been asked about energy and climate. One of the issues discussed was the phasing-out of coal-fired power stations. In this respect, we have undertaken to inform the Chamber in the autumn of the results of the process of developing scenarios around the coal-fired power stations. We will also come up with an elaboration of the measures to implement the judgment in the Urgenda case. These two things are, of course, linked, because one of the possible measures to implement that judgment is the closure of the two coal-fired power stations from the 1990s. We aim to inform the Chamber on these issues before the end of November. I'll be on the farm and horticulture. I am glad that warm words were spoken at that point by Kees van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party. I wholeheartedly support those words. Our agriculture and horticulture is absolutely one of the most important sectors. I've made the next joke before. At Wageningen we think of Mr Pechtold's residence, but the rest of the world thinks of the University of Wageningen. I'm going to Korea next Sunday, along with Martijn van Dam, the Secretary of State for this beautiful sector. With a large trade mission, we will pay attention to the creative sector, the high-tech sector, but also to the agricultural and horticultural sector. I can say that there is a great deal of interest in that last sector in Korea. That is right, because that sector of the Netherlands is absolutely leading worldwide. I can also say to Mr Van der Staaij that it is indeed the duty of the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to agree, together with the various agricultural sectors and other parties in the food chain, on developments in the coming years. These include the improvement of animal welfare, sustainability and production opportunities for producers. We see wonderful examples of it. Look at the current restructuring plans for pig farming and for greenhouse horticulture. Those two sectors are having a hard time; we all realize that. There are now restructuring plans to bring these vital sectors back to life. It also supports sustainability and innovation, for example through the Rural Development Programme of the Common Agricultural Policy, additional resources from the European Union crisis packages and resources from the Economic Affairs budget to promote sustainable stables. There is also the extra boost of 20 million for the food agenda. Finally, I would like to refer to the report 'Towards a food policy', by the Scientific Council for Government Policy. In the cabinet's response, the cabinet indicated that the necessary transitions can only be achieved with the involvement of all parties in the chain. We really need everyone to do that. That is also the ambition of the cabinet. This is a sector that stands for 9% to 10% of the Dutch economy. The sector is a global leader. The Netherlands can help solve at least three major global problems. The first is the problem of too much water or too little water. The second is enough food. The third world problem that we can help solve is how to deal with ageing. These are really matters in which the Netherlands is at the forefront worldwide. I am glad that Mr Van der Staaij gives me the opportunity to put this beautiful sector in the window again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u359	Have you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u360	Yes. After this I come to the counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u361	This is where our prime minister excels in fact-free politics. The Planning Office for the Environment has cut the agricultural policy of this cabinet. There are no new measures in the new budget either. The Planning Office for the Environment has looked at the government's agricultural policy and its sustainability. The planning agency has said that it will have to be radically different. The Planning Office for the Environment is not an advisory agency of the Party for Animals, but simply an independent scientific consultancy. That means that agriculture is on a dead end. Because: non-sustainable, environmentally unfriendly and dierron-friendly. It doesn't go on like this anymore. So we have to go to another agricultural policy. Will this cabinet strengthen the measures to achieve a nature-inclusive agriculture, as the Planning Office for the Environment calls it? In other words, more organic farming and more ecological farming. Does the government take the Planning Office for the Environment seriously and come up with a new package of measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u362	We never sail on the compass of one advisory body. We always look at all kinds of advice, in conjunction. Besides, we're gonna find something of it ourselves. It is precisely Sharon Dijksma's policy for this and Martijn van Dam's policy now to look together with the various organisations in the agricultural sector at the way in which such agreements can be made on developments in the coming years. This does indeed include animal welfare. This includes sustainability. This includes the production potential for producers. This includes: the license to operate, as it is called in good Dutch, for this sector. Of course, all these elements are involved. This is also possible because the Netherlands has a sector that is extremely innovative in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u363	The Prime Minister also referred to the Scientific Council for Government Policy. It also indicates the need for a radical change: from agricultural policy to food policy. That too is an independent organisation. I don't know what the Prime Minister is listening to, except perhaps the extreme-conservative Land and Gardening Organization. If we want to serve the general interest, I assume that the Prime Minister wants to do so, then we will have to listen to independent scientists who have no interest in destroying the sector or whatever, but who have the general interest in the environment, animal welfare and climate. Does the Prime Minister want to listen to that, or is he assuming his own compass, that of trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u364	To get from testimony politics to realizing things, you need cooperation. I understand that Mrs Thieme is doing this from a political point of view, but you cannot say that my aim is to save everything and what happens to the sector is a pity. I think it is necessary for a cabinet to do transitions with all players. This includes organisations dealing with animal welfare and organisations looking at various aspects of environmental and climate policy, but certainly also the sector itself. The people I know there, they don't want anything better. It is also a way of showing the rest of the world that we can adapt quickly and that we are capable of this type of change and thus keep the sector at a very high level. That's what the past has shown. I was in Dronten a while ago. There we had a beautiful meeting organized by the VVD with the agricultural sector. There were 300 men in the hall. It was really fantastic, especially in the context of the new set-up: not only talking to people from within the party but also from outside. We have talked about all these aspects. Mrs. Lodders had co-organised it. We have talked about how we are going to modernise the sector. How are we going to make sure that we use the power in that sector to make the transition? No one's afraid of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u365	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u366	The Planning Office for the Environment indicates that we are not going to achieve the climate targets if we do not tackle livestock farming and that the government must take on a leading role, but that it is not doing so now. That's an independent organization. It indicates, like many other scientists, that this must be done. The Prime Minister cannot wave that away by saying: well, the Animal Party has a certain ideal image, but that is not mine. No, the Prime Minister has to deal with organizations like the Planning Office for the Environment and the Scientific Board for Government Policy that indicate that things are going wrong in agriculture. You can't wave that away. So again, is the Prime Minister going to take on his responsibility and deal with agriculture and horticulture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u367	I just said this is the last way you're gonna make a change. You don't do that because of this kind of language. What does Mrs Thieme think will happen if you approach a sector in this way? Then everyone's gonna literally put the heels in the sand or in the earth and then nothing happens anymore? You need to talk to each other about how we can raise this beautiful sector to a higher level, so that it also remains a global leader. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u368	The Planning Office for the Environment also indicates that you do this with the sector, of course, but the direction must be somewhere. I'm asking this cabinet to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u369	Back to reality, I'd like to say. Back to the farmers and gardeners who are trying to have a good business and to invest in animal welfare and sustainability, but who also want bread on the shelf. Does the Prime Minister recognise that they have been given a great deal of support through the accumulation of measures and costs? They may be small things apart, but you have the registration requirement, plus the red diesel, plus later the phosphate rights, so that's a much bigger point, plus the payment of the NVWA, and so on. I notice, and perhaps the Prime Minister too, that a lot of entrepreneurs are putting this point on the table and saying "watch that" but in this sector you see very strongly that these people feel manned by so many changing rules and so many additional costs. Does the Prime Minister see opportunities to give this sector more peace and space?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u370	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that much has come towards this sector. A lot of people in my immediate vicinity are working in this sector. Some of them also have their own farm and horticulture. Indeed, I also notice the innovative capacity of these entrepreneurs. The same applies to the accumulation of jobs that have been put on their plates. I get that point. That is why Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion calls on me to make multiannual agreements with these people, these entrepreneurs and this sector. That's exactly what the Secretary of State is doing. There is also a need to look at all kinds of other societal challenges that lie ahead, because of course you have to look at them in conjunction, but Mr Van der Staaij will agree with me. I think that is also the strength of this sector. This can be seen in two specific sectors within which things have been very difficult and which are sometimes still very difficult: pig farming and greenhouse horticulture. There are good restructuring plans now, but there is still a great deal to be done to give these entrepreneurs a fresh perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u371	Does this multiannual agreement mean that it is clear that they are not confronted with new rules every time? Is that part of it? Don't they get new burdens on their plate every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u372	That is the aim, but I am also thinking of the funds, the resources from the European common agricultural policy. There is often a lot of criticism about that. The Netherlands gets very little out of that, but the Rural Development Programme is something that benefits the Netherlands very much. I am also thinking of the crisis packages of the European Union, the envelopes for 2015 and 2016, the resources in the Economic Affairs budget to promote sustainable stables, and the additional impetus for the Food Agenda. All these things not only provide a multi-annual regulatory perspective, but also provide financial support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u373	Last year, during the General Political Reviews, a motion by Mr Samsom and myself was adopted asking the Cabinet to take action this year to achieve the objective of the climate ruling in the Urgenda case. The Prime Minister is now saying that the cabinet doesn't plan until October. How will these countries be included in the 2017 budget? After all, we know that climate measures sometimes cost money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u374	During the autumn we, the Chamber and the Cabinet, work together on this budget and in the autumn we will also have that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u375	I would like confirmation from the Minister that action will be taken next year, in 2017. Why is that? We made another climate budget this year, just like last year. We have seen that one year later we are able to reduce CO emissions by 25%. So every year you wait, it becomes harder and more expensive to meet the goals. So my question is: is action already taking place in 2017? Otherwise, we'll be just too late by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u376	It's going through a hell of a lot of work. As I said, it's all there by the end of November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u377	It was just October. Now it's gonna be November. When it comes to November, we will have even less time to ensure that action is actually taken in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u378	No, I said November. I said November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u379	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u380	I hear the Minister of Economic Affairs now saying that we have enough time to do what is necessary. He shares your sense of urgency. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the counter-budgets. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for all the parties that have made a counter-budget. Unfortunately that doesn't apply to PvdA and VVD! For D66, ChristenUnion, GroenLinks and the member Van Vliet. Where has Mr. Van Vliet gone? Oh, yeah, right there! I'll start with the counter-budget of D66. D66 takes a number of measures. They are not very big changes, but D66 still places relevant accents from the perspective of the left-wing liberals. Expenditure is increasing by about 400 million. The burden is increased by about 100 million. Businesses receive a charge relief of 400 million and citizens receive a charge relief of 200 million. This means that there is a slight negative impact of the plans on the EMU balance of around 200 million. This leads to some positive purchasing power effects for workers, in particular for families in which both parents work and for working single parents. The difference in purchasing power development between a earner and two-earners with children increases somewhat further as a result of the plans. D66 finances this reduction with higher burdens on companies, namely by energy taxation and the abolition of the exemption from coal tax. We talked about that earlier today. In our view, the D66 plans, with a shift from one earner to two earners, reflect the D66 priorities, but they do not fit in with the balanced purchasing power vision we seek. Nor are we inclined to accept the deterioration of the EMU balance. They are small amounts; they are not dramatic adjustments. Inside there are a number of accents. There's gonna be 300 million more for education. This means, among other things, extra investment in education. There is also an intensification for education of refugees. It is financed by withdrawing funds from the asylum reserve. We find this less happy because the funds in the asylum reserve are already fully earmarked to cover the cost of the flow of refugees. However, we are not talking about very large amounts of money here either. A further 100 million is invested in the childcare allowance, on top of an intensification of half a billion from the cabinet. We have already talked about environmental taxation. The cost of labour is reduced by an additional 800 million. The reduction of the maximum working discount and the reduction of the phasing-out limit are thereby reversed and the rate of the first disc is reduced. The 30% scheme is limited, the Aof premium is reduced and the income-dependent combination discount increases. It's a whole package of measures. It is not about dramatic shifts, but I understand a number of political emphasis on the environment and education that D66 places with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u381	I see Mr Pechtold at the interrupting microphone, but I do not think you were finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u382	For D66 I have appointed the points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u383	I just came by to pick up the grift.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u384	I'm trying to do justice to the counter-budget. I really appreciate it; it's a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u385	Thank you, thank you. I would also like to thank you for the balanced summary: more greening, more education. But there's a nice thing in it, which is the 30% rule. That's a lot of money coming from there. This means that you say to rather expensive employees of companies from abroad: it's wonderful that you have a lot of exemptions, but it's a little too rough for us. I can see Mr Roemer right now. He's thinking, "Hey, there's some money! And do I hear Minister Dijsselbloem now talking about the location climate? Of course, this will not kill the locational climate!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u386	Don't turn your neck, but it does have a real impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u387	Well... I'm not always making trouble because of the high income, but with this kind of exemption, this kind of opportunity for the big-earning foreign companies in particular can still get 200 million. That's exactly the amount we were looking for in education, among other things!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u388	Then you go back from burden to expense. You can't. I would actually say to Mr Pechtold on this point: call Kajsa Ollongren, the alderman of Economic Affairs in the municipality of Amsterdam. I can't wait to see how she feels about this. That 30% scheme is part of a mix of measures we have to make it attractive for foreign companies to invest here and is really too important. If you remove it, seeing how much employment it creates in Amsterdam and elsewhere, it would be really unwise. That would be 200 million with big consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u389	I am sorry that it cannot be discussed, even if it is supported by the Social Democrat Dijsselbloem. For my group it is typically something where we still see room. I'm really in favour of a good locational climate and I really want to look at business. That is employment, and I can see room here. We will put that into amendments in the sub-budgets and then we will see how the PvdA votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u390	Mr. Chairman. Then the Christian Union. There the expenditure and the burden remain the same. They're both rising. The burden on citizens is falling by 200 million and the burden on businesses is increasing by 200 million. The ChristenUnion is turning back the intensifications in the childcare allowance in 2016 and 2017 from nearly 0.5 billion, cutting back on the bso and short on subsidies for companies. It strengthens family allowances and the child-related budget. I understand these priorities from the perspective of the Christian Union. They therefore lead, in relation to the cabinet's plans, to the redistribution of two-earning and single parents to the single-earning families and non-working parents, in line with the priorities that Mr Segers had previously advocated passionately in the debate. Pensioners are also making progress in the plans. In itself, budgetary shifts are small, but I have to say that there will be adverse economic effects, partly because of the higher burdens on companies. In addition, the cabinet is not enthusiastic about the distribution of two-earners to one-earners. Anyway, we've talked about that extensively. I understand the Christian Union is doing this from its point of view. If I go into more detail, I might have to mention the environmental tax. It will be increased by 200 million. There you can see, among other things, that the exemption from the coal tax for electricity generation is being withdrawn and that the rate is being increased. That is contrary to the agreements in the energy agreement. The Christian Union is introducing an energy saving deduction for individuals of 200 million. This may lead, for example, to problems of implementation in introducing this energy saving reduction. I have to comment on that. This would reduce the burden on labour by almost 0.5 billion EUR 400 million, through, among other things, a higher elderly discount and additional tax support for chronically ill and disabled people through the deduction-specific care costs. The evaluation of specific care costs has shown that this is not efficient and difficult to implement through the deduction-specific care costs. It is also not clear how the Christian Union intends to reach these specific groups through this deduction. All in all, I understand what the Christian Union is doing. I appreciate it very much. I do not agree with everything, but the political priorities have been clearly identified from this party's perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u391	The Prime Minister doesn't agree with everything. But what does he agree with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u392	I'm always very excited about lowering the burden on labor, but then talking might be too much as a VVDer. Without madness, we are standing here in front of the budget, but I think it is a good idea to outline where the counter-budget differs from the cabinet proposals. However, we will not accept proposals immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u393	Other elements will come back to other budgets, but I would like to make one point. I would like to return to an interrupting debate this morning on freedom of choice, in which the Prime Minister said that the cabinet did not like steering and did not want to steer it on the behaviour of families. Does he recognise that the transfer of money from childcare to the child-related budget and child benefit increases the freedom of parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u394	Once again, as the shift of childcare allowance...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u395	That the transfer of child care to child support and child-related budget increases parents' freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u396	And that's what you're asking after eight hours of debate? I really need to think about that. What would you answer yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u397	The simple answer is "yes, of course."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u398	I had a hunch!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u399	Exactly. The Prime Minister said that the cabinet did not like steering or fiscal measures to prescribe how to behave and what choices to make. This is an increase in the freedom of families. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u400	Yes, but you could also argue that the increase in child benefit leads to encouraging families to have more children. On all sides, you can see another stimulus in it. That's the hard part. Now I see Mr Segers falling silent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u401	My final point is that it could be that we are not getting it all out today. If you take strictly the measurement that the Prime Minister himself uses, namely that you want to give as much freedom as possible to families, this would be a good measure. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u402	I understand that, from Mr Segers' perspective. That brings me to the counter-budget of GroenLinks. There's some bigger shifts in that. Expenditure is increased by 1.7 billion and the burden is increased by 1.7 billion. The overall burden on businesses is rising by 2.1 billion and for citizens they are falling by 0.4 billion. However, I must point out that all burdens on business can have a significant impact on the competitiveness of Dutch industry: abolishing the innovation box, limiting participation deductions, increasing energy taxation. That also has all kinds of effects in the income building. There are some choices that we do not follow immediately. There are a number of major cuts: the soft drugs from criminal law and, in the run-up to this, a reduction in the capacity of the police and the judiciary; a reduction of 200 million in that budget. Another is to reverse the intensification of 300 million dollars in the Defense Department. There is an extra 100 million for cyber security, I must add, but on balance that is a reduction of 200 million compared to the cabinet proposal. Another point is a reduction in infrastructure of some 300 million and in top sectors policy of 300 million. It is fair to say that there are also substantial intensifications, such as money for a tender for energy saving for businesses. It is not clear whether this will mainly be ETS or non-ETS. That's where 700 million goes. Half a billion goes to the Wmo and long-term care and to Development Cooperation. Furthermore, it is proposed to reduce gas extraction in Groningen to 21 billion cubic metres, amounting to 400 million, by way of derogation from the recommendations of 24 billion cubic metres. Such a choice can be made. Furthermore, the tax on capital and profits is increased by 1.3 billion. This has an impact on the tax environment, and we must be realistic in this. I can cancel my trip to Korea. GroenLinks is still taking a large number of environmental measures. On balance, environmental taxes will be increased by EUR 600 million. There are also striking measures in this regard. I understand this counter-budget, which is classic Green Left, at least under this leadership, but not under the previous leadership. It's classic for this leadership. I recognize the priorities. I think they really fit Jesse Klaver and his party, but they are not immediately converging with cabinet policy in all respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u403	First of all, I will ask Femke Halsema if she wants to send a postcard to the Prime Minister, because apparently he misses her a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u404	I miss her so much, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u405	I miss her too, but I'll ask her to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u406	Also in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u407	I think I'll take this as a compliment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u408	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u409	One of our proposals is about the tender energy saving. We are paying them by increasing the energy tax for large businesses. The Prime Minister calls that classic GroenLinks, but it's new. We used to take a lot out of business, which we return to citizens, but the proposal is to return it one-on-one to business, precisely to stimulate innovation. This was a hand-off to the cabinet, to see if we can find each other in this way in the field of green business, which this Prime Minister once, in a distant past, was also in favour of. You charge the business on the one hand for the pollution it causes, but you give it back one-on-one, so that it can innovate and work more economically and sustainably.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u410	Yes, but there are very substantial measures: half a billion on road taxes for trucks and CO taxes for power plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u411	I was specifically talking about the tender, which is an increase of 700 million for large businesses, so that there will be a shift. We see that if you burden the business, there will be consequences. You have to help it switch to a sustainable economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u412	Yeah, but it's got to be covered. That's the point. It is a shift towards greening, which I understand, also from Mr Klaver's perspective, but it has to be covered. It is covered by all kinds of burdens which I am concerned about, such as half a billion dollars on lorries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u413	Get away from those trucks. The point is that I'm trying to introduce the principle that if you take money away from business for greening, you can give it away to lower labour costs, but you can also put it into innovation and sustainability. Is that a principle that we can discuss with the Prime Minister? There are big differences between this Prime Minister and me. We look differently at inequality and care, but precisely on sustainability and the economy we should be able to find each other. We want to strengthen business to make the transition to a new economy. Is the principle of taxing industry for pollution and giving that money back to business to help it in innovation, a principle to be discussed with this Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u414	That principle is of such an abstract level that you really need to look at the details to see what that means for the measures. Then I can't stay away from the choices underneath. So you can't speak that easily at that level. At that level of principle, I believe that you will at some point agree on all kinds of issues, such as a balanced distribution of purchasing power or greening as a concept. That is always good, but you have to look at what that means in practice and then you can see that this has enormous effects on the location climate. Before I go all the way into Mr Klaver's trap, I should like to make those comments. This brings me to Mr Van Vliet's budget, which is going a whole other way. He is going to reduce expenditure and, above all, the burden. He wants to further improve the EMU balance. The burden on businesses in this budget is falling by 1 billion, and the burden on citizens is falling by 600 million. Moreover, this has considerable negative purchasing power effects for people on low incomes. The people with high incomes and middle incomes are making considerable progress in this budget. In our view, this does not fit in with the balanced purchasing power image that this cabinet is trying to shape. There are major intensifications. There is an intensification of 1 billion for an investment fund for energy, infrastructure and digitalisation. There's an extra 400 million for the Defense Department. There are also substantial cuts: the 1.4 billion surcharges, international cooperation another 600 million and education half a billion. There is a cut in health care and the Wbso and there is a target for subsidies of 400 million. It must be said, however, that Mr Van Vliet is invigorating, namely 1 billion, for the benefit of an investment fund, which will limit the reduction of economic growth for companies. That's what I have to say. Mr Van Vliet also reduced the burden on labour by 1.8 billion, with particular attention being paid to the removal of the reduction in working hours. The donation deduction and the Hillen Act are also abolished. The tax on capital and profits is reduced by 1.3 billion, the landlord's tax is reduced and the Vpb is reduced by 1% in both discs. In addition, environmental taxes are increased by 300 million. Van Vliet abolishes the Vamil, the EIA and the MIA that we have to end this day with these abbreviations and the tax discount for green investments. He's lowering the diesel tax. All in all, it is a budget that I understand, as I know Mr Van Vliet, and when I see how he stands in life, but which does not converge in every respect with cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u415	Before I give you the floor, Mr Van Vliet, let me see if Members have any objections to you asking a question. You did not take part in the debate. It appears to me that no one objects. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u416	I don't hear anyone saying "pleasure," so I'm just gonna say what I want to say. I'll do that very briefly. I have saved you time by not participating in this debate. Like last year, I say thank you for the attention. I meant it seriously and I will therefore participate extensively in the General Financial Reviews and then in the treatment of the Tax Plan. This time I will come up with amendments that have proper coverage, which is available for my entire budget. Thank you very much for this opportunity to show what you can do as a parliamentarians, including as a one-man group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u417	Sure. Mr President, may I underline that? It's a lot of work. Great respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u418	We have also made a climate budget. I've asked for a response to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u419	I'll give it to you in second term. I didn't find it on the pieces right now. I'll take a look at the officials. GroenLinks' climate budget will be discussed in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u420	I see the Prime Minister is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u422	I had the same impression. Then we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u423	The next item is the second term of office. Speaking time shall be one third of that in the first period. First of all, Mr Roemer of the SP Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u424	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for the long sitting and the many answers. They weren't all right, most of them weren't, but that's where we disagree. We have talked a lot these days about values and standards, and how we deal with each other. If I may believe Mr Zijlstra, freedom in our country means, among other things, that you can pull a croquette out of the wall here. But real freedom is more than, so to speak, a FEBO freedom. Our standards and our values also go beyond trade and consumption; fortunately, I would say. Our freedoms, our values and standards, which we are proud of, are about how we live together; about equal opportunities in education, so without a loan system; about accessible care, so without a risk; about opportunities to live affordable in a rental house or a merchant house. Those things are also a basis for people's freedom. That young people have a view of permanent employment, of training and of a future. And if they need support, they should not be dumped in the assistance. Freedom also has to do with decent care. That if you have health insurance, you don't have to pay a high risk of your own. That you can count on a decent old age. Today it was announced that a third of the municipalities have had no money to help young people with psychological problems since June. Security is a prerequisite for freedom; only then can people build a future for themselves and for their environment. Security is also a basis for justice. That anyone can participate. That we don't look away when others need us. That you are not judged by your origins, but by your commitment. What I'm worried about is that more and more young people are getting in trouble. They no longer receive a fixed contract and are not eligible for a mortgage. I'm worried that more and more people are working hard, but they can barely make ends meet. Those are all things that concern people. These are developments that people are worried about: how will the Netherlands remain a pleasant country to live in? I want a Netherlands in which we deal with each other in a social way. In which people do not always have to compete with each other, but can work together. Where not the markets, but the people have the last word. Where we fight selfishness and strengthen unity. A country in which we do not allow people to be played against each other: rich against poor, believe against unbelieving, young against old and go on. Yesterday we debated care for about an hour and a half. That discussion was about a principle: do you choose to take care of market forces and competition, and thus waste, or to cooperate and have the courage to trust caregivers? In those 90 minutes, we received no less than 5,000 additional statements of support for the idea of the National Health Fund. That was a new signature every second. The cost of care is a major problem for more and more people. As far as the SP is concerned, it must be removed from the table its own risk, which is a fine on illness. We can start with that in the next year. Together with the Party for Animals and 50PLUS, the SP wants to start reducing its own risk. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that its own risk leads to care avoidance and payment problems for people in need of care;]] [[noting that health insurers also believe that it should be compulsory to reduce its own risk, otherwise it risks undermining solidarity in the healthcare system;]] [[Considers that care avoidance and payment problems can be reduced by starting to lower their own risk in 2017 and that a subsequent cabinet can reach a structural solution;]] [[Considering that the government is using healthcare insurers' reserves to mitigate the increase in the healthcare premium (see point C, page 181, VWS 2017 budget);]] [[noting that health insurers have several billion more in reserve than the solvency rules impose;]] [[calls on the government, in 2017, to reduce its own risk by using the reserves of health insurance companies for an additional EUR 1 billion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u425	It's getting harder and harder for a lot of people in our country to get justice if they don't have a big wallet. Registry fees are high and legal aid has been cut a lot. The SP continues to make proposals to improve this fundamental core value of the rule of law, access to justice. At the same time, we need to look at the alternatives, such as the Disputes Committee on Consumer Affairs. That's a low-threshold, quick and cheap way for people to get out of court to get their rights. This commission is partly paid by the business community, partly by the people and partly, for 20%, by the government. That limited contribution is trying to remove the Minister of Security and Justice, just like last year. Then the Chamber stood a firm stick for it, on the initiative of the SP. Now the Prime Minister doesn't want to do anything about it. This is unwise, also financially, because the removal of this subsidy will lead to higher costs in traditional case law. That leads to more lawsuits, making you more expensive in the long run. We will make proposals in the forthcoming discussion of the budget for security and justice in order to maintain this contribution. Together with D66 we have taken the initiative to reduce the classes. Together, we believe that too many children are in classes of more than 30 pupils. It is a pity that the Prime Minister did not give up more than one sentence, but we assume that the Chamber will embrace our initiative. In addition, together with GroenLinks, we have the plan to tackle income inequality in our country. There is still a discussion on investment in education. The cabinet claims that 200 million more is being invested, but according to calculations we have all heard, more than 250 million is being cut. We therefore support D66's motion to restore this. Last year, together with Mr Zijlstra, I asked for a list of Salafist organisations to be published to prevent municipalities, schools or other organisations from cooperating with extremists of this kind, which promote segregation and ensure that young people turn away from our country. Minister Asscher has so far refused to give this list. I would ask the Prime Minister to at least make a commitment that the Cabinet for the Budgetary Treatment of Social Affairs and Employment will indicate how it is going to implement this motion. Democracy is not a management problem. In April, the Netherlands said no to the treaty with Ukraine. No means not ratifying and not participating, so no treaty. Instead of sending a message that he respects the voice of the Netherlands, the Prime Minister went on a tour of Europe. That trip has been going on for six months now. The Prime Minister won't tell me when he's ready. He dares not even promise to answer before the elections, while the answer is simple: no is no. In 2005, the Netherlands said no to the European Constitution. Then Prime Minister Balkenende also trained the case for a long time, as long as that treaty was adopted in another jacket until 2009 and voters were deceived. Now this Prime Minister seems to do the same: first train the case and then introduce the treaty, which the voters have said no to. The Prime Minister can't keep diving. I still want to hear from him a date on which we get an answer. Democracy means listening to the people and showing respect for the voters who cast their votes. You see it more often with the Prime Minister, for example when it comes to dealing with the crisis, the purchasing power of people and the division of society. We always see how this Prime Minister lives in his own world, with his own truths, and often sees nothing of the reality that people see around him. He is the Prime Minister of the rich Netherlands, of the 20% of the people who have improved over the past 15 years. It is not the world of the other 80% of Dutch people who have surrendered to disposable income over the past 15 years and who have been given the account of the crisis. We saw it again this afternoon. The Prime Minister continues to deny that the division is increasing, even if the CPB shows that he is wrong. The Netherlands must be a country where everyone can participate and where every person can feel at home, a country where you are not judged by your origins, but by your commitment, a country where every opinion counts, but where you also respect the other person and a country where you grant others the freedom that you yourself have received. I often see the mentality of yourself and respect others when I visit people in care, in education, who stand on the docks or who work as police officers in the neighborhood. They expect politics to have the solutions, to reduce the differences rather than widen them, to make care affordable, to protect pensions and to tackle inequality. If one thing has become clear, it is that the Prime Minister and I have not agreed on this. That's the battle I'm going to fight with him over and over again over the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u426	Mr. Chairman. So, thirteen minutes! First of all, thank you to the cabinet for the comprehensive reply. There was also a small problem, because it actually agreed with us on almost everything. I don't have much more to wish for. However, many things have been noticed in the debate, which I would like to stop by because they are characteristic of how political parties stand. We have debated extensively the national care fund that Mr Roemer laid down. This is about care and about people, about vulnerable people who sometimes wonder if they get the care they need. However, the debate on the National Health Fund was about figures and systems. I didn't hear the word "patient" come across in that whole discussion. What was clear was that this is a division between basic care for everyone and additional care for which you have to pay for yourself. We used to have this: the health insurance fund. We have abolished this because of such a division. The most beautiful phrase of this debate, Mr Samsom, showed in a fairly effective way that the financial underpinning was not good.I thought that we were going to 'combat bureaucracy by more government'. It's like someone who's gonna lose weight gets a Big Macs diet. Of course, that's not gonna work. In the long-term care, from which most examples were cited, you see that too: there is a lot of government. I am pleased that Mr Roemer has indicated that it is no longer a breaking point, but a spearhead. I think that's very wise if you're still trying to be constructive. I also noticed Mr Wilders, because he, like other populists, like around the Brexit, is calling out on the sidelines. The minute he can really do something about it, he's gone. The discussion came through again. We've got the Brexit. Should there be a nexit? One thing was clear. The PVV wants a nexit, but it also wants the European Union to continue to function, because the benefits of the European Union must be preserved. That reminded me of a moment you sometimes have when you're in the pub with a bunch of people. Everyone buys a round and then there's always someone who's just gone to the bathroom the moment he has to pay. That's a bit of how the PVV treats Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u427	It is nice that Mr Zijlstra is trying to take the measure of people who are going to solve problems encountered by society as a whole. About half of the VVD supporters have had enough of the way the care is now organised. He has had it with the broken bureaucracy, the grab-behavior and the consultancy offices washed out of the cliffs that can fill their pockets anywhere. We want to put an end to that. We can put an end to this if we decide that care is not a market, that carers are not producers, that hospitals should not compete with each other but should cooperate with each other, and that we should simplify by giving nurses and doctors the responsibility they deserve and can bear without outside looking at and prescribing what kind of medicine they need to provide. That is what we are doing with the organisation of a national health fund. I would say: do as many of your supporters, join in! Help me get that brutalized market operation out of care. He doesn't belong there. I am fine with competition between refrigerator vendors, but it should not be between doctors, it should not be between hospitals and it should certainly not be between patients. They are not consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u428	In any case, it is good that the word "patient" has now fallen. I had not heard Mr Roemer mention that in this whole discussion. When it comes to care, it's about patient care. Then it is not about the system, then it is not even about all those hard-working people in the healthcare sector who provide care; ultimately care is about patients. Mr Roemer says: I want to see the best system for patients; I want to see if a national healthcare fund can provide a solution and make the system even better. I say 'even better', because we may have the best care in the world. In any case, we are among the top countries in the world. But then he really has to lay down a plan in which clasp-and-ready is what is covered, what is not covered, what is underneath and what the finances are. We have had whole debates on this this week, but we have not been able to achieve that. Mr. Samsom was the closest. As long as there is no clarity, I cannot have that discussion. I note from what I have heard that the patient is obviously not at the heart of the matter and that this is a major change in the system, with a total lack of clarity as to its effects, both financially and in practice. This is then supported by "we are going to reduce bureaucracy by introducing more government." That's what happens then. There will undoubtedly be a few Dutch people who think that that works, but most Dutch people know from their own experience that more government is not the solution, whether at the UWV or at another organisation. You'll have more bureaucracy. Like I said, it's like someone who wants to lose weight and then gets a Big Mac dinner prescribed. That's not gonna work!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u429	Mr Roemer, you may give a brief response. I would point out that this is the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u430	But I'm being attacked. The whole debate was about patients and caregivers who, through Mr Zijlstra, through me and through all colleagues, indicate what they are going through all week in the patient room, in hospitals, in doctors and in the general practitioner's office. They indicate how much bureaucracy has been added and how much percent of the time they are filling out forms. And why? Because we have a system of market forces based on mistrust. Everything you prescribe, every minute you spend on a patient, you have to answer for it a number of times. That brings the system with it. That's what doctors say who don't like it. That brings with it the system of mistrust. Whether you are a patient or a health care provider, if you find with so many people in practice that our good care is increasingly hampered by this system of distrust, competition and a far too great power of commercial health insurance companies, then you have to have the guts to say: then we tackle the main cause and then we come up with an alternative. That's what we did. We have picked up the glove, we are leading the way in order to come up with a good system for that, so that the confidence can be put back where it belongs: in the office. And if Mr Zijlstra does not want that system because he is in favour of market forces, profit maximization and profit distribution, then we do indeed have a fundamental problem. Then I won't get the VVD behind our plans. But I'm sure the largest part of the Netherlands will follow us and help us make it a good, affordable and trusted system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u431	You shouldn't put words in my mouth that haven't been said. Market forces in care? The SP often calls that, but then I say: what market forces in care? There isn't one. Health insurers are non-profit-making. So there is no profit maximization either. That's just in the Health Insurance Act. It always helps a lot to stick to the facts. I'm always in it constructively and always want to look at it, but then the plan has to be clear. We must then know exactly what measures are involved and what the plan costs or yields. Unfortunately, as long as we don't know, I can't have the discussion. I am particularly pleased that the SP has indicated that it is continuing to issue a bill before the elections. I am waiting for that, but unfortunately we have not been able to see it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u432	If Mr Zijlstra here dares to say with dry eyes that there is no market forces in the care, then my clog really breaks. Healthcare insurers have billions of profits lying on the shelves. We have to come up with an initiative bill, together with the CDA and the Labour Party, to prevent health insurance companies from making profits after 2017. We have seen again today that health authorities have made substantial profits. Yesterday, I gave you an example of a company which had won 32.5% of its profits and which had distributed tons of profits to management. You are now claiming with dry eyes that there is no market operation. Come on, Mr Zijlstra!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u433	Here too, it is extremely helpful if we stick to the facts. The health insurance companies do indeed sometimes have money left at the end of the year. They also have a so-called risk buffer. By the way, the government must also build it. Your health care fund will therefore also have to work with a risk buffer. They're little things, but what I noticed is this. If you look at the statistics reported on the website, you will see that almost all the tables go up to 2016, which provides the best picture for the SP on... except one. Then it's about the asset position of the health insurance companies. It ends at 2014. That also makes sense, because we see that after 2014 the capital position decreases. The health insurance companies have returned this money to the patients, in the form of lower premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u434	No, Mr President, more recent figures have not yet been made available. That's the only reason. If they come today, they'll be on today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u435	It is funny, then, that in the budget it is found that the amount is 2 billion lower. There are apparently more recent figures in the budget, but they are not known by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u436	I suggest you move on and not provoke any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u437	That's unusual; let's call it that. I had already mentioned Mr Wilders. I also found Mr Klaver's reflection interesting. I found it remarkable that someone who always says he wants to radiate hope and optimism came up with a story that showed a lot of pessimism. There's a lot going on in this country. From some contributions I sometimes get the impression that the Netherlands is a very annoying country to live in, in the vein of: it will happen to you that you have to go to a hospital in the Netherlands or that you have a benefit in the Netherlands or that you should live and stay in the Netherlands; then you are really bad off. You should probably go to Sierra Leone or something. Sometimes I get that impression when I hear contributions. I liked it best when it comes to income inequality. There has been a very long discussion about income inequality in this house. I'll say it again. We have also pursued this policy with which the VVD was not necessarily pleased, because we have also intervened. I say to Mr Klaver: while everyone sits outside on the terrace in the sun, we should not sit inside and say that it is still raining. That's kind of what happened. We shouldn't do that. For someone who says that we should not go to economics because that is wrong, he has talked a lot about numbers, tables and CPB calculations. Perhaps the best discussion was about the Prime Minister's "pleuring up." I must say that, when it comes to 'everyone's own language', we, as representatives of the people, seem to think that, if the Prime Minister speaks the language of the people, this should not happen. He's consistent, I say in all honesty. I remember Mr Wilders standing at the interrupting microphone a few years ago and saying: act normal. Then the Prime Minister said, "Give it a rest." I saw the same reaction in this debate. I found that to be an important point. One of the interrupters, I've just lost who it was, said: there are groups that feel addressed by this. That is exactly the essence of what I said in the first term. If the norm in this country is that people who feel offended by something are going to decide what may or may not be said in this country, then we are really far from home. Then every debate goes to hell. If that happens, we'll be on a sliding scale. Then at some point you may not use that expression "I will not repeat it "with the letter "p" and the word "on." The next step is perhaps that groups feel offended by other things. Because someone walks on the street in a short skirt, because people drink alcohol on a terrace, or because someone walks in a bikini on the beach, or in a burkini. I literally said yesterday that it's just as ridiculous to ban it. That's why we have to be very careful. You may differ on how things are said, but here too we must be able to say things. And a prime minister should be able to do that. Finally. We once had a list-taker fight in the VVD. I was reminded when I heard Mr Van Haersma Buma talk about freedom of speech and Tocqueville. Mr Van Haersma Buma actually advocated limiting freedom of expression to a number of things. I made it quite clear that we should not do that, but I thought it was special that Tocqueville passed by, because Tocqueville advocates the ultimate freedom of expression. He doesn't even think freedom of expression in the United States of America goes far enough. It reminded me of Rita Verdonk, who said: I read Thorbecke's book the other day. It is clear that we are on our way to elections, and I will admit that I do not remember that either. This also occasionally includes a motion for a resolution on something you have not mentioned in your entire first term. I recognize that immediately, but we have encountered a pressing problem this morning, and that leads to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas traffic enforcement is there to ensure and increase road safety;]] [[noting that the current system of budgeting traffic fines may give a different impression;]] [[calls on the Government to make the preparations to ensure that the proceeds of traffic fines no longer flow into the V and J budget, but into the general budget, and to compensate the V and J budget for the amount lost,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u438	Mr. Chairman. These two days we have debated the budget for 2017. We do so for a population with little faith in politics. We do that while society is polarizing. Gorges dominate. One of the gaps we discussed today and yesterday is the labour market. The CDA very much hopes that polder and cabinet will take action to improve the labour market. This is even more necessary than ever after the reports on the labour market that have been published today. The labour market is broken and needs to be healed. We also discussed freedom of expression today and yesterday. The debate on freedom of expression makes it clear once again how big the differences can be in this respect. For the CDA, it is clear that if a society wants to function peacefully, freedom of expression can never be absolute, as it has never been absolute, and must be limited where necessary. What we have seen in Zaandam over the past few weeks also shows how bad it can be. I'm thinking Rotterdam. I am thinking of the examples that we have seen and which we all call for: why is there not or why is there not so late? When it comes to Zaandam in particular, this example shows that we must stand alongside the police if it is to be offended or threatened. It also shows that, as a Chamber, we must ensure that we have an answer to that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are numerous recent examples of unacceptable harassment and insults to the police, and these actions seriously undermine the authority of the police;]] [[whereas freedom of expression is not unlimited;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its action against harassment and insults and, where necessary, to put forward proposals so that the police can act more effectively against this type of harassment and inform the Court of Justice before 15 October,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u439	There are two methods for politicians to deal with this polarization. You can connect with deeds and words, but you can also go along with words in that polarization in the thought that in a world where there is a lot of tumult the loudest screamer wins. We already knew them, the loud screamers on the right and on the left. We're familiar with it. Although it never gets used to, we have to and will accept it. After today, we know that Mark Rutte also does it that way. His empty promises of 2012 were no one-time mistakes. The PvdA one day a danger to the country and the next day the greatest friend. $1,000 and not a penny more to Greece. When he stands for entrepreneurs in 2016, he says about the Work and Security Act: if I'm honest, the cabinet falls. So being honest isn't the best thing for this Prime Minister. Campaigning is. And he's proud of it, too, of his hollow words, the screaming. It's doing so well in the campaign, that street language. But I say this: this is not how you restore the confidence of the Dutch people in politics. You're gonna break it even further. "Idiots," "screwed tokkies," "squirt of the ledge," "pleasure on." It's all just effect hunting, masking powerlessness. It's the degeneration of politics. If something has become clear today, it is the legacy of this Mark Rutte that is a succession of empty words and empty promises. We have witnessed it again today. How many times can a prime minister apologize for all the conscious untruths he's been telling lately? How often can a prime minister use swear words as a lightning rod for one's own failure? VVD'er Mark Rutte may hope to win in the short term, but in the long term it will break him up. Worse still, it'll break up the whole politics. Everyone here in this Chamber will have to deal with it: the further loss of confidence in politics. You guys just yell over there in The Hague. After today, we know that the Prime Minister is at the forefront of this. This is unworthy of a Prime Minister. A statesman is not harsh in his words, but let the power of his actions speak. A prime minister who lowers himself to fence language to mask his own failure will enter the history books not as a statesman, but as a populist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u440	Mr. Chairman. Election vows. Breakpoints! Breakpoints! Who wants to rule with who? I hear Jan Roos is ready. The electoral spirit has been clearly valued over the past few days by this Chamber. But fortunately, at least for me, we could also talk about gini coefficients, purchasing power mediums and exchange rates versus lump sum issues. I have been able to get my heart out of it, and I would like to thank my colleagues very much for their support. Part of the debate focused on the care. You're right. Almost all parties, including the PvdA, are looking for ways to maintain access to care. A great deal has already been done in recent years, with municipal insurance at your own risk, higher care payments, payment schemes. They're all here to make sure everyone can get the care they deserve. And yes, it can be even better, it can be even more low-threshold, it can be even less market forces. But it can't be with ill-thought-out and uncovered proposals. This is about serious problems that deserve a serious solution. Making the outside world believe that there is a solution, without providing a sound foundation, is not helping. Those who have followed the debate will have assumed themselves in a totally different country at varying times. Sometimes he imagined himself in the land of hell and damnation, sometimes in the land of milk and honey. The truth is just in between. Both images do not do justice at all to the complex reality of the Netherlands. The reality is that things are getting better, but not with everyone. The reality is that not everyone benefits from the recovery. That's what we want. That is why we are far from ready and far from satisfied. This cabinet is far from ready as far as the Labour Party is concerned. There are just six months of government ahead of us. The Netherlands needs a sturdy-to-recover cabinet. It must continue to work hard on better education, on good work for all, on a fair distribution of income. People want to see concrete progress, and rightly so. So we are failing these people if we start looking in the headlights of elections for six months from now. This debate was also largely about what kind of country we want to be, and about who we are in the Netherlands. People's concerns are, rightly so, much more than about purchasing power or incomes. On that point, the debate was sometimes bleak. We heard one parliamentarians deny the other Dutchmanship. We heard a party who, in an inimitable logic of freedom, wants to undermine fundamental freedoms for certain groups in order, in its own words, to preserve freedom. We heard a Prime Minister pushing off an entire population in a raging, or in a well-thought-out moment. That debate with the Prime Minister was for some people about the tone or the choice of words, but that was not the essence of the debate. The essence was the message behind it. Whatever word you use, how high the tone is, I don't care at all. We've been a little used to it these past few years, especially in this room. It's about the message that's behind it. Because no matter how annoying a vlogger is, no matter how bizarre or unacceptable some young people sometimes behave, they belong here! The answer cannot therefore be a carefully focused "pleer on." Those who are concerned about the connection in the Netherlands should not push away groups of Dutch. Call them to order, grab them by the turds, continue them where necessary, but don't push them away from you. Our message to them, and over their heads to all those others, should not be "go," but "behave here, for your future is here; this is your country." However difficult that may be, we, and certainly the Prime Minister, have a duty to strengthen the connecting forces and, with pride and self-confidence, to open up the Dutch way of life to everyone. Because that Dutch way of life exists and it's worth fighting for. Celebrate freedom. cherish the tolerance. Live on equal worth. Love the rule of law. That is all the Netherlands and everyone can choose to do so and then belong to it completely, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u441	The words of Mr Samsom have been taken from my heart. I sincerely thank him for that. But do these same treats also apply to the mayor of Rotterdam, who said "fuck off" to Syrians? Is that what it's for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u442	I've been wondering and talking to him about it. That night you also saw a furious Muslim who refused to accept, refused to go along with the fact that his faith, his religion he loved, was abused by terrorists. On that morning, eight people were killed by terrorists with machine guns. That a mayor of Moroccan descent with an Islamic faith at that time says "if you don't like it here, get the hell out of here," I understand quite a bit. That's how I understood the Prime Minister when he said it was kind of a primary reaction. Until I thought, "Wait a minute, that broadcast didn't come suddenly." It was prepared for a long time, and it was well thought out. That's what I talked to the Prime Minister about. I am not speaking to anyone on a first run-up or a first emotion I have myself often enough, and if I were to start doing so... but I do when it comes to this kind of well-thought-out statements by a prime minister. He just has a responsibility, and that's what we talked to him about today, me and others. By the way, we didn't agree on it. That is also possible in this country. It's pretty clear where everyone's standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u443	I think we also agree that what happened prior to the mayor's ruling was terrible. But it's about the same thing. The Prime Minister says "pleasure" and the Mayor of Rotterdam says "fuck off." The only difference I can find out is that one is a party mate and the other isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u444	There were a little more differences than that, but let's just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u445	Mr. Chairman. These were the last General Reviews of this cabinet and that is a good thing. Because this is how we lose our country, lose our freedom, lose our democracy and lose our rule of law. And why? Why are we losing all that? We are losing that because nobody dares to treat Islam as a problem, dares to name it, let alone to pursue policies against it. That is apparently still politically incorrect, that existential problem........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Dutch, according to every research, are rightly very concerned about the growth of Islam in the Netherlands, as in the rest of Europe: 57% of Germans, French, British. In almost all countries, majorities of the population are revolting against ignoring the problems that Islam, mass immigration and the open borders of recent decades have caused us. That is not without reason, as is shown by the facts and figures. We already knew from a Koopmans study that 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands believe that religious rules are more important than secular laws. Read: The Qur'an goes beyond the laws we make here. 70% think so. A few years ago, we also knew that 11% of the Dutch Muslims are willing to use violence from Islam as their 100 000, 110,000 people. 100,000 people in the Netherlands are willing to use violence from Islam. We've already got that jihad army ready in the Netherlands. This summer, which I mentioned yesterday as the "black summer of jihad," we saw what Islam's supporters are capable of. There are 100,000 in the Netherlands alone. We have seen what happens in Europe: from attacks to street terror, from attacks with machetes, axes and buses in Germany and France to thugs in Zaandam dancing on police cars. But our borders remain open. Islamization must not be named or stopped. Our Prime Minister says, "Fuck off." As I said in an interrupting debate: those are beautiful words, they are beautiful words, but they are also empty words, because they mean for this Prime Minister: stay. "Fuck off" is "stay." Even double-national criminals who commit a crime are not expelled by this cabinet after their Dutch passport has been taken away. That's a kamikaze policy. That's never gonna solve the problems. It's only gonna get worse. You are giving more space to this violent ideology that is using our fundamental rights to take them away from us. We'll give it all the space. We don't have a resilient democracy, we have a defenceless democracy. We don't have Churchill in Prime Minister Rutte, but we have a Chamberlain in Prime Minister Rutte. We have to stop that. In 2010 a motion from GroenLinks was adopted here, only my group and the group of the SGP voted against it, which states that de-Islamicisation should not be an objective of the Dutch policy. It was that bad back then. The world was on fire, but we couldn't even talk about it here; let alone be a part of the policy. I think it is time to table the opposite motion, because only without Islam will the Netherlands remain a free country. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Islam is a violent ideology contrary to the rule of law and the Constitution;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should remain a free country and be protected from this danger;]] [[states that the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands must be an objective of policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u446	When it comes to care, I have already said in an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister how terribly antisocial it is that nursing homes have been closed, that home care has been halved and that money is not being invested and invested in nursing homes. I remember that the extra jobs we spoke with pride of the "Agemaalden" "have been cut off. It was about extra money for hands on the bed for people who now often have to spend the day drugged into their own feces. It is not worthy of civilisation if your elders, who have built our country, do not even go to a nursing home, but let them sit at home and then take away half of home care. What kind of country are we living in? I sincerely believe that there should be no difference of opinion between any of the parties in this house. When it comes to its own risk, we want to get rid of it. We shall support Mr Roemer's motion. We believe that, even without a major change in the system, by allowing the excess profits of insurers to flow back to those lower premiums and by eliminating their own risk, you can deal with a lot of problems. When it comes to pensions, it is again about the elderly of the Netherlands, my group does not understand that people who have raised our country are or have already been faced with reductions in pensions due to the low interest rate of the ECB, while the government simply benefits from that low interest rate and therefore makes profits and has lower interest charges. What would make sense if we gave that low interest profit to the government, which no one had expected and which was not intended at all, to the elderly so that as long as interest rates are low, they would not suffer from income losses. That's what needs to be done. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the Millions Note, the government debt interest rate in 2017 is EUR 1.4 billion lower than in 2016;]] [[believes that it is not the government that should benefit from lower interest expenditure, but the elderly who are or are at risk of being cut back on their pensions;]] [[Calls on the Government to pay out to AOW'ers the surplus resulting from the lower expenditure on government debt interest in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u447	Mr. Chairman. I can finish. It is clear that we believe that Rutte II was a disaster for the Netherlands. It is good and it is high time that Dutch people were able to choose new leaders on 15 March next year. Leaders who do what needs to be done, who do what millions of Dutch people are asking for, who close our borders to asylum seekers and terrorists, who guarantee the safety of the Netherlands, who do not spend our money in Africa or Brussels, but here, to our own people, to lower taxes, to decent care, to pensions, you name it. Leaders who think the Netherlands belongs to us. We need the leaders. Leaders who stop Islamization, who keep us a free country. That is where the elections of 15 March are about freedom, about freedom of the Netherlands. Will the Netherlands remain a free country? Will the citizens of the Netherlands remain free people? Freedom is the greatest good we have as a country and as an individual. Are we gonna keep it or are we gonna lose it? That's a choice we have on March 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u448	I'm a little surprised. Why is Mr Wilders so complimentary about this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u449	Then I don't think you've listened properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u450	I've been tracking it for four years now. You have tabled a motion of censure twenty times in four years. Now you have the last chance, but now you don't. I see that as a huge increase in trust in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u451	Mr Pechtold, the motion of censure against this cabinet will present the whole of the Netherlands on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u452	But don't tell me yourself, now that you yourself have put forward a few of those motions that you know will not make it, that all the motions of mistrust in recent years have actually been a kind of hollowing out of the means and that you have no use at all, that they were actually some kind of fake feelings of distrust?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u453	If this interruption by Mr Pechtold at the end of this debate, which we have had here for two days, is about whether we have tabled too many or too few motions, then he too is a very small man. I said that to Mr Buma yesterday. Then he doesn't know what it's about and he's just looking for something to cause an interruption. Mr Pechtold, any motion of censure that we have tabled was and was necessary, but it did not make it. But I promise you and I assure you that the motion we are tabling on 15 March is going to make it shiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u454	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet and, in particular, the Prime Minister who has spoken for his reply, but he often did so in consultation with his entire team. First of all, I count the blessings, the receipts and the promises, or whatever you want to call them. I'll begin with a special, majesty desecration. I would like to thank the VVD for its support today, which means that, in future, insulting the head of state, an ambulance brother or someone else is equivalent. We're never for it, we find it tasteless, and we're gonna treat it equally before the law. I also count my blessings when it comes to the self-employed without staff. In recent weeks there has been some uncertainty, but now with the support of the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister, there has been clarity. That is very important for this sector. As far as education is concerned, we've just stepped in. I understood that Mr Samsom only likes to talk about tables, but in the end we all had the idea that we should not leave this hole in the education budget, because otherwise it might land in schools. That is why we have prepared the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that education in the 2017 budget is faced with a lump sum and grant mission and an "estimate adjustment' to be completed and that they are only partially compensated;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow adjustments to be made to the detriment of school funding;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Samsom and Mr Zijlstra.]] [[She's getting No. kst--11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u455	He's not gonna make it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u456	Let us hope that it will be implemented. In the second term, I will receive a reply from the Prime Minister to my question about the long-term sick and disabled and 'the Van Rijn solution'. May I summarize it in a moment? Then I come to a few incomprehensible blockades that the Prime Minister threw up during this debate. The first really annoys me, not because of the content but because of the language for refugees from day one, from the moment they are ready and want to participate. I think it's crazy, because it was a motion of 17 December last year that was adopted here. Where even the Schippers and Hennes Ministers now agree with us that it is of great importance and the majority of the Chamber supported it, I have prepared the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as early as December 2015, the Chamber adopted a motion requesting the government to offer asylum seekers language courses as soon as possible after entering the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to implement this motion within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst--12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u457	Then very topical, bed, bath and bread. Mayor Van der Laan has brought out news today. He said that the cabinet is on its last legs and that no agreement will be reached. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask whether the cabinet sees this as well, because the result is that the municipalities, albeit in a sober manner, can accept refugees and exiled people on a dignified minimum. I'd like to get a response to that. Then the Ukraine referendum. Here, too, promise after promise. We have had three now, and in the same metaphor that the Prime Minister often uses: that snowshooter, the season is coming again, I'm allowed to stay in the closet. I just want a stand and Chamberwide. If it is from Wilders to Pechtold who agree on that, then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in April the Cabinet indicated that it would respond to the outcome of the referendum on the Association Agreement with Ukraine before the summer of 2016;]] [[noting that in September the Cabinet indicated that it was unable to make any prediction of speed;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that there is still no clarity as to the actions of the Cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the outcome of the referendum by November 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Thieme, Mr Segers, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Klein and Mr Bontes.]] [[She's getting No. kst--13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u458	Then Turkey. We had a debate last week on the aftermath of the coup. It was asked not only to condemn the coup, but also the arrests, the suspensions, the firing of teachers and judges and everything Erdogan has done. Rutte refuses until today. We've talked a lot about that now. There was another motion from D66. I will not read it again, but it is motion 32824, No. 151. I would ask the President to put it to the vote this evening. Then there's the climate agreement. The Netherlands, with countries like Malta and Luxembourg, is bumping behind when it comes to clean energy. We want to work quickly and hard with the objectives of Paris; so does the cabinet in word, and I am pleased with that, but still the act. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, less than a year ago in Paris, the world made far-reaching commitments to halt climate change, aiming at global warming of not more than 1.5 C;]] [[Considering that this will require strong policies in all participating countries to reduce CO emissions rapidly enough, and that several reports show that the closure of coal plants is the cheapest option for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the timetable for the closure of coal plants is in line with the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and a 25% reduction in CO emissions by 2020 and 55% by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u459	This was another printer. I hope I mentioned the right numbers. Mr. Chairman. Let me make a serious point. We have talked about the language, but I thought that Mr Samsom was also very good at formulating it. It's not just language that you sometimes fall over, but it's also.................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's what you hope isn't meant to be, but what does stick when you stay behind that language. That's actually the most important thing for me. I think it is a mistake of state law to say "pleasure" to Turkish Dutch people, because you cannot make a distinction between saying that personally or as Prime Minister or standing somewhere else. You certainly can't do that here. But most of all, I find it so wrong in substance. It is not a prime minister for all Dutch, but a prime minister for the Wilders voters. And that is allowed, but not in that way and not about population groups. What I found to be indicative is something I'm almost seeing again. When Samsom, the great friend, on whom he depended all these years, was critical for the first time on a fundamental point, the Prime Minister sat back and talked to Minister Schippers about a piece of paper. You can be busy all day, but the moment Samsom adds that to you, I think it's also the question of how you're seeing each other that you should look at each other, just like I'm doing the Prime Minister. It is going to be an election year that most people have become clear, I think it is going to be about what kind of Netherlands we want, a country of freedom and solidarity or a country of division and discrimination. I think the most important goal is to overcome the contradictions by working together. If we set goals together, work together and achieve results, we can also bridge the contradictions in society. I have tried to make a contribution to this today on behalf of my group, and we will do so in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u460	Madam President. Over the last few days, we have talked a lot about the state of the cabinet and the state of the country. We have talked about the position of families, about education and about care, but the underlying debate was even more important to me. I already talked about it in my first term. That concerned the question of what connects us. This question has just been repeated by colleagues here. There are deep gaps through our society: between poor and rich, sick and healthy, ethnic and indigenous, secular and religious. These contradictions put pressure on our society, and sometimes on our freedoms. I wonder if that has really made us move forward in that debate. The debate on what unites us was mainly confined to a debate on the Prime Minister's crisp statements. Of course, that is not at the heart of the fundamental discussion that is needed, a discussion about fundamental freedoms and values. That is what we must continue to do, precisely because freedom is so valuable to us. I am very brief on three issues and I would like to table three motions. The first concerns freedom of education. In this debate, I have expressed concerns about freedom of education. By far the majority of parents are satisfied with their freedom of choice and most parents opt for special education. I am pleased that the VVD Group, through Mr Zijlstra, and the Prime Minister, have promised to uphold that freedom. They've committed to it. I therefore hope for a broad freedom coalition of parties who, with that message, go into the elections and stand for freedom of education. My second point concerns families. I have been concerned about the freedom of choice of families, about the freedom to make choices about work and care. This is now subject to government control through taxes and child care payments, and that is not freedom of choice. The Christian Union Group has shown in its counter-budget that it can do otherwise. I welcome the Prime Minister's comment that he would like to take another look at that. For example, I mention the difference between one and two earners. What we want to see, however, is action to put an end to this injustice. My third comment concerns the NIP test. I think the Prime Minister has spoken fine words about people with Down syndrome. I am still critical of making the NIP test generally available, but at least we can agree on good information on what a life with Down means for parents who are going to do such a test. The Prime Minister made that commitment, and I thank him for that. Finally, I shall table three motions for resolutions. The first motion is tabled in response to the emergency cry of the Salvation Army about people who have nowhere to go, who are homeless. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various civil society organisations are calling the alarm clock on the reception of people with addiction, mental and/or debt problems;]] [[Considering the importance of early detection of problems and the availability of outpatient ggz in the district 24/7;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that maximum acceptable waiting times are met in the ggz,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Pechtold, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samsom.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u461	My second motion concerns the care of the poorest in the world and the reception of refugees in the region. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the emergency aid fund budget was exhausted early in 2017 and that the Voordewind/Van Laar motion adopted (32605, no. 185) calls for a similar budget for the Dutch Relief Alliance for 2017 as for 2015 and 2016;]] [[Whereas Dutch aid organisations working together in the Dutch Relief Alliance note major shortages of shelter, food and medical assistance in reception camps in the region;]] [[calls on the government, the money remaining from the first-year care asylum reserve in 2016 and 2017, to invest for a substantial part in the reception of refugees in the region through the Dutch Relief Alliance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u462	My final motion concerns the protection of our freedom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financers from non-free countries with money flows seek to control religious institutions in the Netherlands, as sometimes happens in mosques;]] [[noting that values in force in these non-free countries run counter to the core values of our democratic rule of law, such as freedom of religion and freedom of expression;]] [[calls on the Government, in the context of the policies to be developed in the context of the WODC investigation, not to allow funding of institutions from countries that do not themselves have freedom of religion and freedom of expression,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Zijlstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u463	Finally. In the coming period, it is about the future of our children. It is our task to raise them in a country of freedoms. A country where everyone counts. A country in which parents can choose their own school, families can organise their own lives and where people are free to believe. That is the commitment of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u464	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for answering all the questions and for being patient. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members, who are not only the last General Political Reviews of this cabinet, but also of the Chamber in its present composition. I thank them for a nice debate. I agree with what Mr Samsom said: I too am grateful to colleagues for the fact that we have now been able to dive into technology. In my view, these political considerations were really about the content. There has been extensive discussion of inequality. We have long considered the increased income inequality. We have also spent a long time thinking about care and the inequality that arises. I, too, had some improvement points in the plans presented by the SP, but let me say that I appreciate the fact that the SP comes up with plans to see how we can achieve a paradigm shift and look at care in a different way. I think that's very necessary and that a lot of people experience it that way. People experience that market forces have taken over from the professionalism of doctors. People experience that care is becoming more expensive to pay. I think there are several ways to get to Rome to achieve those ideals, to improve this and to make sure that the patient is back at the centre. I would like to work with all my colleagues here to get there. The debate was also about how to let the Netherlands be the Netherlands. Sometimes it was a very nice debate, which was about inclusion and in which it was said that all Dutch people and everyone who lives here belong together. Sometimes it was a very ugly debate. A colleague in the Chamber was denied the right to speak here. He was told that he was not actually a Member of Parliament. It was about double passports. It was about young people who should actually pick up. It was also a nice debate because I saw that most parties actually have a very nice picture of the Netherlands. They see the importance of freedom of religion and of freedom of expression, and that we should not defend our freedom by restricting it further, as some parties in this Chamber believe. I have a number of motions. One of them is about resettlement, about which I had a little debate with the Prime Minister. We have agreed in Europe on the resettlement of refugees now detained in Greece and Italy. What the Prime Minister said in answer to my questions, to be perfectly honest, I didn't think it was possible. Seven thousand people have now been selected by the Greek government. Later in the evening I heard that there are now 10,000 people. But, as the Prime Minister said, we're already doing so much, so we're not going to record a few more now. But I think it's very simple. We have agreed on what we are doing, so our share. I would like to see more cooperation in Europe. If that is not the case, we are not going to wait for the rest of Europe to act, but we are taking action ourselves. I believe that we must ensure that we receive people who are now trapped in the misery of the camps in Greece or Italy. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Italy still has large quantities of asylum seekers to process, without prejudice to large numbers of people travelling through the Central-Mediterranean route from Africa to Europe;]] [[noting that the hotspots, which would be set up in Greece to register asylum seekers, have become overcrowded detention centres;]] [[Whereas it is more urgent than ever that the Netherlands and other European countries comply with the arrangements made for the resettlement of asylum seekers from Greece and Italy;]] [[Calls on the Government to complete in 2016 the resettlement of 5,273 asylum seekers from Greece and Italy promised by the Netherlands, giving priority to single children, and to send a progress report to the Chamber prior to the budgetary treatment of Security and Justice;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Pechtold and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u465	I have another motion. It is about the contribution to the first-year reception from the development cooperation budget. I'm worried about that. The shelter is paid out of that budget and that has an effect on what we can do abroad. Because stability abroad is important, but more and more people are drifting and fleeing, we need to do not less but more development cooperation. That is why I really want to avoid that, should more refugees come to the Netherlands, this will be at the expense of the development cooperation budget next year. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in asylum costs in 2015 and 2016 has been a disproportionate attack on the development cooperation budget;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet takes into account 42,000 new asylum seekers in 2017 and an allocation of 900 million to official development assistance (ODA, Official Development Assistance);]] [[calls on the Government to cover, in the event of a higher influx, an overrun of the budget from the general budget and not to the detriment of the amount for official development cooperation (ODA),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Pechtold and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u466	I expected to collide with the Prime Minister about inequality. I did not expect to collide with him on our climate budget, which I am expecting to respond to, by the way. I am sure that economic development and progress go hand in hand with the sustainability of our society. The proposals we make in our climate budget not only contribute to combating climate change, but also ensure that our economy works better. As I said earlier, I tabled the climate law together with Mr Samsom. I hope that we will be able to deal with this bill for the March elections in the House of Representatives, but in advance I shall table a motion for a resolution. If you want to achieve the goals we agreed on in Paris, it is really important to come up with goals now and with an exit strategy for fossil fuels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet is striving internationally for a fully sustainable energy supply in 2050;]] [[Considering that according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment, the planned pace of the Energy Agreement leads to around 19% of renewable energy by 2030;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is increasingly dependent on countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia for the import of fossil fuels;]] [[noting that Norway wants to be climate neutral in 2030 and Denmark will stop coal in 2025 and oil and gas in 2050;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an exit strategy with target dates to stop the consumption of coal, oil and natural gas in the Netherlands and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Pechtold and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u467	Mr. Chairman. If you google on "trip through the desert" there's something special going on today: the first hit is Moses and the second hit is Rutte. That is because our Prime Minister in the General Reviews this afternoon indicated in his reply that it had been a journey through the desert to take all these measures in crisis time. I'd like to congratulate him and the Cabinet on that trip through the desert. After all, we have seen a lot of cabinet trips in recent years, and it is indeed worthy of praise that, despite all kinds of differences and difficulties, the coalition parties have held each other within the cabinet and have put in place important measures with the support of opposition parties. After Moses' journey through the desert came the ten commandments. It would be nice if, even after this journey through the desert, those ten commandments would be brought more to the fore. After all, this is a concrete interpretation and design of the concept of "freedom" in responsibility to the Creator, our fellow human beings and the environment. I also showed some footage yesterday. Fortunately, it has remained quiet, no imagestorm has started. That's always a risk you're taking. I didn't tell you yesterday, but did you know that one of the footage was taken away once? The compliment goes to Mr Van Raak, because he discovered in 2003 as a senator that there was also an image of the philosopher Bolland. Mr Van Raak said at the time: I do not think his views on workers, women and Jews are such that he deserves a statue here. Bolland was then taken away and another has replaced it. It has remained quiet; these people must continue to be okay. It was a broad debate today that dealt not only with how the money is spent, but also with the values we share. It was about the question "what's the matter with you?', also in dealing with differences. I do not think that the last word has yet been said on this subject today. In view of the limited speaking time, I now turn to the tabling of three motions. First of all, the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas operators should be free to decide to keep their shops closed on Sundays;]] [[Whereas in several places under the current law and agreements, entrepreneurs are subject to heavy fines if they keep their shops closed on Sundays;]] [[calls on the government to take effective measures to ensure the freedom of choice of entrepreneurs to keep their shops closed on Sundays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Staaij, Segers, Van Haersma Buma, Pechtold, Roemer, Samsom, Klaver, Van Klaver, Van Vliet, Thieme and Klein.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u468	I would also like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that parties such as the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks are still waiting for the VVD here, who said earlier that they want to create room for shops to be opened on Sundays, now that we were also prepared to go for the downside. We do not want entrepreneurs to be forced to open their business on Sundays, and I think it is the chapeau for those parties that they want to take that step too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u469	This almost automatically raises the question of whether the SGP makes the reverse movement. I think I already know the answer to that. That is not my question, however. The VVD also believes that freedom of choice means freedom of choice. A government, or a landlord normally, should not be able to say: you must open. Unless, for example, you get into a mall. I would like to hear from Mr Van der Staaij what that is about for the SGP. A landlord can say: we open as a mall as a whole on Sundays, so if you want to settle here, is the part of the rental contract that you open on Sundays. If you sign for that, you shouldn't say at a later date that you have a problem with that. There's a choice the moment you say you want to sit in that mall or somewhere else. We have asked about this case and this seems to be the case here. There is an entrepreneur who has chosen to sit in the mall and who has agreed to the rental conditions, one of which is that you should open your shop on Sundays. This entrepreneur now, after all, regrets that. If that is the case, there has been freedom of choice. Can Mr Van der Staaij state what he thinks is going on here? I would also like to hear it from the Minister, because it is very important for the voting behaviour of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u470	What we see and hear, even during work visits, is that this freedom of choice is not in practice a real freedom of choice, because there is no equivalence between the parties. The developer says: if you want to have your shop in this mall, you have to sign by the cross or you won't get in. That's not a real freedom of choice. In fact, that's "sucking or choking." There are also situations where this is not directly stated in the contract, but is determined at a later date, for example when establishing the agreements of the association of owners. These are all ways in which a majority takes away a minority from the space to do what it wants. We see that more often, including in private law. Freedom of contract is paramount, but we often see that, precisely if the parties are not equal, provisions are also being drawn up to protect weaker parties and their freedom of choice. That's a big deal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u471	I just want to get it sharp anyway. When a shopkeeper who is located in a shopping mall gets to hear "you'll be open on Sundays," he has a hard time saying: I'll leave. That's not a choice. But if you want to settle as a shopkeeper somewhere where opening up on Sunday is part of the rental or purchase contract, then it is a choice. That is why I ask the question again. What exactly does Mr Van der Staaij mean? In the first case, I agree with Mr Van der Staaij but not in the second case. Then it is a choice of its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u472	I am referring to the fact that there should be no situations where entrepreneurs are forced against their will to be open on Sundays. This can be because rules are drawn up later or because only choking contracts are available, which means swallowing or choking, and there is no real choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u473	Mr Van der Staaij makes a man-made attempt, but does not really answer the question. This description is inversely the same for shopkeepers who want to be open on Sundays, but they shouldn't. I am really concerned with the question: where is the moment of choice? I immediately agree with Mr Van der Staaij when it comes to someone who is already in a building and is told at a later date that he must be open. Then that person doesn't really have a choice anymore. I don't think that's possible either. But again, is this also about the situation in which an entrepreneur who wants to settle somewhere does have that choice? After all, that entrepreneur can also settle elsewhere. Opening on Sundays is then part of a branch in a certain shopping mall. If you say "yes" while signing the lease and you say "but not" at a later point, you should have opened your mouth earlier. Mr Van der Staaij walks around that. Is it the first, is it the second or is it both?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u474	It concerns all situations where you may have a theoretical freedom of choice, but in which you practically have no freedom of choice. This can also be done by working with standard contracts that say: you have to comply at all times with what is determined here, namely that you have to be open in this mall on Sundays. It is not just about people with fundamental objections. They are sometimes granted a derogation. It is also about people who, for other reasons, do not want to be open on Sundays. That's what you saw in Groningen. People say, "This is just my family's day." Or they say: it is not economically profitable for me at all. So we are also talking about all these other situations. My second motion concerns the report of the Balkenende Committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission for Structural and Employment Strengthening Zeeland, led by former Prime Minister Balkenende, presented a report with concrete recommendations on 2 June;]] [[having noted that by letter of 11 July 2016, the Cabinet gave an initial response to the report of the Balkenende Committee;]] [[having noted that on the implementation of opinions on, inter alia, the problems of the Borssele nuclear power station and the position of Delta, the establishment of a structural reinforcement fund and the support for the creation of a second university college still require further consultation with the province of Zeeland;]] [[invites the Government to conclude these consultations as soon as possible and to inform the Chamber of how the Cabinet provides support, including financial coverage, for the implementation of the opinions of the Balkenende Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Samsom, Mr Segers and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u475	To be honored, it is good to report that the report of the Balkenende Committee was the execution of a parliamentary motion by colleagues Albert de Vries and Jan Vos of the PvdA Group. Finally, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the office's adage is that work should pay;]] [[Considering that this is certainly not always the case, for example, when people decline from €27,000 to €32,000 in the case of an increase in income of €10,000, or when net income increases by less than €500 in the case of an increase in income of €10,000;]] [[calls on the government to identify the groups to which a very high tax burden applies and to propose how (more) work for these groups can be made profitable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u476	Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a number of commitments, including those relating to agriculture. I am talking about the multi-annual agreements to provide clarity to the sector. The Prime Minister has said that the Secretary of State is already in the process of doing so. In dealing with the agricultural budget, we will be glad to see the Secretary of State about the way in which this is further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u477	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and on Prince's Day, I drew attention to women's emancipation and, in particular, the emancipation of women in politics, in this Chamber. The fact that my party is talking about emancipation makes sense, because we also see ourselves as an emancipation movement. After the liberation of slaves and giving rights to women and children, the next logical step is to give animals rights. But the emancipation of groups is not yet complete. Women's emancipation is completely stationary. The fact that only one woman from the 14 group chairmen is speaking today is perhaps a fact of life for some, but for others it is a sign of a serious democratic deficit. I'm with the others. The renovation of the States-General that is in the pipeline should certainly involve tackling the glass ceiling within our own political parties. The debate on basic income is at least as old as the debate on women's emancipation. Both of these discussions have been less interesting lately, while they are extremely topical and deserve serious attention. In the interrupting debate with the Prime Minister, I received in response a somewhat surrealistic anecdote about his dog Droef which he had in his young years. Rutte senior, his father, also had discussions about the fact that there might be less work in the future; that would be obsolete. Now I do not want to go into a generational conflict, but I note that it is right to ask the following question. We live in a world in which we can produce and consume more and more with less and less human strength. Should it still be a necessary condition for having an income that can at least be lived that everyone is at work? Shouldn't we also consider whether we can better divide the work? There is enough work to be done, but there are still at least 600,000 too few jobs in our country. The current economic system is designed so that we have to work more, longer and harder, instead of getting it easier and more relaxed in our lives. The current economic system therefore prevents a better quality of life, because people are led to believe that economic growth is the solution to all problems and that we need to produce and consume more and more in order to emerge from a crisis. The poignant thing about the fact that the economy is so organized is that 55-plussers with a job application obligation have to ensure that they get a job every time. That's often degrading. Soon we will have a debate on basic income, following an initiative paper by Mr Klein. I ask the Prime Minister to be open to alternatives to our current economic system. I would recommend him, but also the others here in this room, the book Free money for everyone from Rutger Bregman. That book is not about money, although the title suggests it, but about the quality of life. I also mentioned the growth and debt addiction that our society is suffering from because of the way in which we organized the economy. The economy is like a cyclist who has to cycle harder and harder to keep up. This is an unsustainable situation, which not only affects the quality of life, but also affects our earth. We are also addicted to fossil fuels. Natural gas has been the weapon that made our prosperity possible, but it's almost run out. Climate change threatens everything we love. Continuing on the current path is therefore the dumbest thing we could do. One of the biggest causes of global warming is livestock production, the way we consume, the way we consume meat consumption. The Planning Office for the Environment, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and many other scientific organizations in the world say that drastic measures need to be taken, especially in the way we produce our food. I would like to show the Planning Office for the Environment and also the Scientific Council for Government Policy that they are not calling in the desert. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Plan Bureau for the Environment (PBL) states that the Cabinet should opt for a radical reversal in our food system in order to meet the climate and biodiversity targets;]] [[noting that the key lies in an agriculture co-operating with nature, referred to by the Planning Office as nature-inclusive agriculture;]] [[noting that ecological agriculture is currently limited;]] [[Considering that, according to the Planning Office, a strong steering role of the Cabinet is needed;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen its ambitions for more sustainable and nature-inclusive agriculture and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the consideration of the agricultural budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u478	When I talk to people about the major problems facing the world, the climate crisis, the food crisis, poverty, I am told very often: what can I do about it? It's so big, it's so hard to change that! I could tell all those people that knife and fork are the most important weapon against poverty and inequality in the world. If we make sure that we produce more sustainable products, by opting for sustainable products in the supermarkets, then we can make a world of difference. If you want to make sure that our children receive good education, choose small schools, go to small hospitals! Will we be alone in rebellion against all those traditional political parties who have led us to believe that making money is the greatest good in our lives? March 15th we can turn the tide. Let's look forward to that. Well, at least I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u479	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister tells it beautifully. In the first term, I was talking about advertisements that are presented attractively, but often pale when you look at them more closely. The Prime Minister doesn't have to be afraid of his future, because I predict Mark Rutte a bright future in the advertising world. It is quite clear that older people have been lagging behind in purchasing power development since 2000, up to 30%. I'm gonna show the Chamber another graph, another one than before. The upper dark blue line shows the purchasing power development of employees and the lower line shows the purchasing power development of pensioners. This concerns the period 2000 to 2015. It's a very clear picture. The source? They're statistics from the Central Bureau of Statistics. It is a purchasing power gap, and today's figures, requested by Mr Klaver, are obvious. Cumulative purchasing power 2014-2017 for workers: 9.1. Repeat, 9.1. For pensioners 2.3. Repeat, 2.3. A purchasing power gap. How dare the Prime Minister call this balanced? Everyone can see that this is not a balanced purchasing power policy. 50PLUS wants this Prime Minister to confirm that there has indeed been a purchasing power gap between workers and pensioners. What's he gonna do to fix this? The answer of the 0.7% voter tip is really not enough. The people at home not only look at the graph, they also feel it daily in their wallets. It's not balanced. Prime Minister, stop playing games, don't beat around the bush, just be honest and listen to all the signals from society, for example the signals from all the elderly organisations. A reason for the decline in purchasing power is the situation with pension funds. The Prime Minister said in the first term that the cabinet is not about the accounting rate for pension funds. Strictly formal, that is correct, but the cabinet can do something about the accounting rate. The Cabinet and the Chamber deal with the financial rules for pension funds, the framework, and the search for appropriate measures. 50PLUS once again asks: are you willing to do so and are you willing to do more than the poor promise of Secretary of State Klijnsma last week? Finally, I shall table two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purchasing power development of pensioners will continue to lag behind those of workers in 2017;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power figures presented assume that pensions will not increase or decrease on average;]] [[Whereas the risk of pension reductions is very high if no measures are taken;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to take the necessary measures to prevent pension reductions in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u480	Finally, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to government estimates, pensioners and beneficiaries will be able to expect less positive purchasing power in 2017 than workers;]] [[calls on the government to continue its efforts to ensure a balanced purchasing power development between workers, beneficiaries and pensioners;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u481	Mr. Chairman. In April 2016, Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon visited the House of Representatives. He warned against the advancing xenophobic nationalism in Western Europe, also in the Netherlands. This warning is in stark contrast to our Prime Minister's statement, and it happens that it always happens just before elections. He thinks: "Mo fight you in, let them die in Syria, fuck off, scum of the ledge." Why, you wonder. I can only think of one answer: not to be the Prime Minister of all the Dutch, but to win the xenophobic-nationalist voice that would otherwise go in the direction of Wilders. During the interrupting round in which the entire Chamber, with the exception of the VVD and the PVV, deplored the Prime Minister's statement, the Prime Minister came no further than to normalize, that everyone must accept our fundamental rights, that our freedoms and achievements cannot be redeemed and that there should not be selective shopping out of them, while the Prime Minister himself does so. He treats one group of Dutch people differently than the other group, and in doing so he basically defies Article 1 of our Constitution. The task of this Prime Minister and the Cabinet is indeed to standardise, even when it comes to racism, for example. We must continue to standardise, but we must also look further at the underlying causes. In the report Worlds of Difference from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which the Prime Minister also selectively shopes from, they become clear. He constantly talks about the 20% and says that the remaining 80% are doing well. I looked it up. This 80% of Rutte is 4% ethnically isolated, 53% moderately segregated, 2% isolated and oriented towards the Netherlands, 9% double binding and 12% focus on the Netherlands. So we still have a long way to go with each other, but we cannot go that long way in the way of Wilders and Rutte. That has to be different and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2015 SCP Report on Worlds of Difference provides an in-depth picture of ethnic minority groups in our society;]] [[noting that around 50% of Turkish and Moroccan Dutch people are "moderate segregation" indicating, inter alia, that this is because they are "never feeling Dutch enough" and there is "two-size measurement";]] [[calls on the government to address the underlying causes of segregation: unemployment, hopelessness, the feeling of not being part of it, the feeling of never being Dutch enough and the feeling of double standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u482	Mr. Chairman. Everyone has distanced themselves from Mr Rutte's statements. I didn't do that. I've been sitting there consciously, because I think you should be able to say that, even as Prime Minister. You just have to mean it, and I doubt it. I think it's more like a prime minister's campaign trick. I doubt this came from his toes. I don't see that right now. Anyway, I'm not judging him for this. The rest of the room will. So I'm not participating in that correctness. Well, Mr Zijlstra doesn't judge him either. The Prime Minister has put forward the issue of the Ukraine referendum's outcome for more than 160 days. He's gonna shuffle the no-thumb. My group has always said: let us be clear. The Prime Minister has always refused to do so, has not done so, has turned it around. So, of course, we supported the opposition motion on this issue. In my first term, I considered the depravable state of Defense. This doesn't happen to a self-respecting country. We were able to read another message today from the Commander of the Sea Force. It says: the Navy is actually still, the Navy is currently limited to deployment. Consider, the Netherlands is a seafaring nation and the Navy is at a standstill, is limited. We can't let that go on. We'd really regret that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch armed forces do not need millions but billions more;]] [[Considering that NATO agreed to spend at least 2% of GDP on Defence;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with this agreement and to send to the Chamber as soon as possible a roadmap justifying this increase in the Defence budget to 2% of GDP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u483	The Netherlands is not an immigration country. In my first term, I praised Australia's immigration and asylum model. We can really learn from that. This applies to our own borders, but also to our external borders. It is a thorn to my mind that all kinds of boots of smugglers, full of asylum seekers, are being dragged through some sort of pilotage service.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We would say: force them back to safe territory, but do not bring them here. Don't be a pilot. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tens of thousands of asylum seekers come to the Netherlands every year with the current asylum policy;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is not an immigration country, the current policy entails enormous costs, that reception of asylum seekers should only take place in their own region and that the policy for those already present should focus on return;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards an Australian model for the reception of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u484	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u485	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, a number of questions were put to the Chamber. A number of things have also remained behind from the first deadline. I shall begin with my commitment to Mr Pechtold on his own risk and a possible study of the possibilities for further specialization. I'd like to say a few things about that. The compensation own risk, the former Cer, and the chronic sickness and disability allowance Act are, albeit with a discount, decentralised. That's one. The problem was that those arrangements didn't work. People who didn't need it also received money back and people who needed it were excluded from the scheme. The municipalities can now introduce a scheme in such a way that a patient who can demonstrate that he has completed his own risk three times in a row can receive compensation. You can see this in the municipality of Amsterdam, for example. That is not a mandatory regulation, that is customization that municipalities can offer. Municipalities are free to do so. Other municipalities put the money into collective health insurance for the lowest incomes and often include compensation or reinsurance of their own risk and/or any supplementary insurance. Furthermore, as is well known, the WMO is reducing its own contribution to those families in which one partner works and the other is chronically ill. This will mean in 2017 that the own contribution can eventually decrease by €1,400: from €1,460 to about €60. That's what's happening now. In addition, two studies are currently under way: one of the Central Bureau of Statistics on the accumulation of own contributions and one of the Central Planning Bureau on a voluntary own risk. Against this background, I would like to say to the Court that the Minister for Health will examine whether the statistical data on the consumption of own risk can, in particular, be summarised in the light of Mr Pechtold's request for budgetary treatment. This is going to be quite a job, because you have to determine for example what exactly is "chronically ill"; who that is. There are no clear definitions for this, but we will try to do so. I am committed to putting this in the context of the state of play. I think we can make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u486	I'm so happy about that. It is of course a boost that in a city like Amsterdam, where VVD, D66 and the SP are at the helm, this kind of good care already exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u487	And do you know who's the glue between the VVD and D66, Mr. Pechtold?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u488	She from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u489	That's right. Locally, you can work well with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u490	That's a compliment, but it didn't really come out that way, I understand. I can commit several things about matters that are further investigated about foreign funding and so on. Mr Roemer would like to make a commitment that the Chamber will be clear on how to deal with funding flows from abroad to organisations in the Netherlands well before dealing with the SZW budget. We should be clear about the principle of reciprocity. That was an exception from the circle of the Christian Union. I'd like to make that commitment. We will soon be discussing in the cabinet a draft letter of parliament on how to deal with foreign funding flows. The letter is expected to be sent to the Chamber in mid-October. That will be ample for the examination of the SZW budget. Then we will also pay attention to the principle of reciprocity. Mr Roemer further asked when the Zijlstra/Roemer motion would be implemented. It calls for a list of Salafist organizations. This is being investigated by the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It's gonna take a little more time. That study is expected to be available in spring 2017. Finally, I can promise that by mid-October the announced letter on the foreign financing of a school in Rotterdam will be sent. That, too, is ample for the budgetary treatment of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I come to the climate budget, which I have not dealt with in the first term. I have dealt with the normal counter-budget, but not the climate budget. This cabinet does a lot to combat climate change. The GroenLinks climate budget sets out, inter alia, on the basis of the inter-departmental policy research cost-efficiency CO2 reduction measures, how 25% greenhouse gas reduction could be achieved in 2020 compared to 1990. That 25% is based on the judgment of the judge in the case of Urgenda. Mr Segers also referred to this matter. In the cabinet response to the interdepartmental policy research cost-efficiency CO2 reduction measures, the cabinet has appointed how it thinks it can comply with the verdict. It also looks at a number of measures mentioned by GroenLinks. We are currently working on the measures mentioned in the cabinet response in April. We aim to provide an explanation of this effect by the end of November. The other pillar of climate policy is the energy agreement. Within the SER Energy Agreement, a large number of measures were agreed until 2023 to achieve the agreed objectives. Should the annual progress report on national energy supply show that the achievement of these objectives is at risk, we will look at additional measures. We will inform the House about this in the autumn. Those were some introductory words against the background of that climate budget. Let me now turn to the substance of the matter. First of all, I would like to make the proposal that the cabinet should discuss this more closely with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance if the Urgenda judgment is also here. Otherwise, we are going to have this whole debate here, and it does not seem to me to be the right time. I will say a few things about it, however, to do justice to the climate budget. GroenLinks makes many selections here from the interdepartmental policy research cost-effective CO reduction measures. A very large part of this saving is achieved by a CO levy on coal plants. This leads to a reduction of CO emissions in the Netherlands. Coal plants are under ETS, but a reduction in emissions in the Netherlands is offset by an increase abroad. We therefore believe that this does not immediately contribute to the global climate problem. Other measures are aimed at transport, industry, households, agriculture and services. In this respect, the exercise of GroenLinks is similar to the exercise of the cabinet to give substance to the Urgenda sentence. It also seeks to achieve a balanced package of measures. These measures should also be balanced across sectors, with a strong focus on the waterbed effect of coal plants. Of course, we are also looking at the decommissioning of two old coal-fired power stations. Whether this can be done in the GroenLinks way with a CO levy will really have to be looked at. In the case of industrial measures, the cabinet considers it very important to look at the impact on competitiveness. Measures aimed at households should also be carefully considered, although of course they do not have an impact on competition. However, this does not mean that they cannot go hand in hand with major social costs. So we will all have to look at this in conjunction. This was our first response to the Green Left budget on climate change. I can imagine that we will discuss this in greater detail when we talk about the Urgenda issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u491	Thank you for the response to our budget. We will indeed discuss this in greater detail. I do have a question about the issue of coal power stations. The cabinet has so far been rather reluctant to do so. Perhaps the Prime Minister could indicate how he would like to achieve the objective if we did not close down those coal power stations? Everything we have checked shows that there are no other options.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u492	Of course, we'll come to the Chamber with that. If that were not part of the package, we would have to propose alternatives to it. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u493	So what's the Prime Minister thinking? I like to get a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u494	Then it is correct that I also discuss this in the Cabinet, because before you know it, I will give an opinion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u495	I had hoped it had already been discussed in the Cabinet, but I understand from the Prime Minister that this discussion is going on, so I am waiting for the cabinet to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u496	Agreed. They asked about bed-bath-bread. The conversations about that are still going on. I come to Mr Pechtold's question on the KMar. He asked: what about the pressure on the KMar at Schiphol Airport? During border surveillance in full width, several forms of temporary support have been offered to the KMar in the past year. Maximum technical support through e-gates has been deployed. 30 more of these e-gates will be added to Schiphol in the coming months. This is being stepped up and investment is being made in improving technology. There is also money for 2016 and 2017 to support border and foreign control, which is also being used for this purpose. We believe that the situation for 2016 and 2017 is expected to be well regulated, with equally unexpected, large fluctuations aside. I do agree with Mr Pechtold that we need to achieve a more structural solution. Therefore, it has been decided to identify the capacity needs of the KMar for the airports in the coming years. The conversation about this need is ongoing. The Chamber will be informed of this this autumn. As I said, there's a lot of demand for the KMar. Her work is important. In addition to her job in border surveillance, she is also responsible for monitoring and securing objects. In this context, six additional platoons will be trained and available for this task by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u497	Faster than I could say "bed-bath-bread," the Prime Minister had already dealt with that issue. Mayor Van der Laan said this afternoon: the cabinet is on its last legs; it is not coming anymore, so the municipalities are going to offer the sober emergency shelter again. The Prime Minister said the talks are still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u498	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u499	Does he know when the last call was?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u500	I know that there will be another call tomorrow with the chairman of the VNG Committee, but I do not know exactly when the last conversation was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u501	That was in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u502	Well, look at that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u503	This was such a typical piece of arm pressing and being tough. In the meantime, the cabinet was rolling down the street, in this case on the backs of asylum seekers who had been tried. The congregations aren't allowed to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u504	The last conversation wasn't in January. There were conversations later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u505	Oh. Well, the last official conversation was in January. We are reasonably represented at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u506	They're not official conversations, you know. There's just talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u507	The Prime Minister is trying to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u508	No, seriously. As Mr Pechtold gave the impression that the last conversation took place in January, I checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u509	I am serious, because it has been said to all these municipalities in the Netherlands: you are no longer allowed; we are only going to do it in five places in the country; you must close all that shelter. Giving me a cup of soup, giving me a bed, it wasn't supposed to happen anymore. That was rutte's tough talk. It is now incredibly much later, there are months, there has even been a year gone and bed-bath-bread has been put into a very bad light rather than municipalities being allowed to pursue a humane policy. But the last conversation in which something apparently happened took place in January. Today, the mayor of Amsterdam said nothing happens anymore. Then I don't think you can take this issue off in a middle line like "the conversations are still going on." Either you come out, or you don't get out and then you just give all the municipalities in the Netherlands the chance to do what they already did: provide a humane, sober shelter. Then you're not gonna unleash some kind of witch hunt in the atmosphere of "this can't happen anymore." In that respect, the cabinet is really on its last legs. I'd say forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u510	Well, okay. We take note of that, but we want to continue with this. So the conversations are going on. That's one. Two. There was also a need to look at a case at the European Court of Human Rights. That verdict was July 28th. There were also two statements by the Council of State on the Amsterdam bed-bath bread supply. They're done by the end of June. They are taken into account, even in the conversations that take place. So those conversations are going on; I can't make it any better. Mr. Chairman. I'll go into the motions. The motion-Roemer c.s. in piece No. 6 is about reducing one's own risk. I advise against this motion. First of all, we need cover for the reduction, but the motion does not mention it at all. We do not think that this cover is sound. In addition, it will not be technically possible to achieve this for the year 2017. For these two reasons, I advise against the motion. The Zijlstra/Samsom motion in part No. I consider 7 to be a policy support. The ibo traffic enforcement provides the requested preparation for otherwise investing the proceeds. Different alternatives are being developed. It will be just as complicated to put all this into practice, but the motion does support policy. But again, the precise implementation is complicated. We'll notify the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u511	Mr Roemer has a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 6.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u512	The fact that the Prime Minister doesn't want it isn't such a surprise, but that he says it's technically impossible is, of course, just bullshit. Even in this investigation, the Prime Minister has come up with a wonderful way to do it next year. If banks need to be saved in one go, we'll have a weekend. Where there's a will, there's a law. If there's a crisis bill to be made, it can all be done. So it's not a question that it can't be done, but that the Prime Minister doesn't want it. If you say it's not right that we're getting it out of there, I'm telling you that the cabinet is taking out even $2 billion. This is shown in the budget on page 181: 2 billion from the health insurance reserves to prevent premiums from rising. So it's possible, but the Prime Minister doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u513	But that is money that they themselves have put into lowering the premiums. We don't. That's not what the cabinet's about. But I see Mr Zijlstra on the motion on item No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u514	By the way, the SP apparently found it. That is good to note, given the earlier debate, but that aside. I'm coming to the motion on V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u515	The traffic tickets!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u516	The Prime Minister calls it a nice support of the policy, but I was not aware that this was the policy. At the moment, things are different in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u517	There is indeed an extremely unfortunate desire, but I understood myself with the Minister of V and J and he assured me that it should not have been there. Nevertheless, this motion provides complete clarity, so I think that is good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u518	Yes, in order to avoid any ambiguity, the Prime Minister states that it is indeed the aim of this government to make this movement. That is what we ask in the motion for a resolution. Then it is support for the policy in the sense that the cabinet wants it too. Then we can indeed vote very happy for it, but then we have no doubt as to what the policy should be. That's what the motion actually says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u519	But was Mr Zijlstra now planning to vote against a motion under which his own name stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u520	No, but if the cabinet makes it "supporting policy" while the policy is something else at the moment, I do not want to support a motion of my own that has changed radically at once. However, that is not what the Prime Minister is saying here, and I am very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u521	No, in fact, this ties in with ibo traffic enforcement. This fills in the requested preparation for otherwise investing the proceeds. Different alternatives are being developed. These decisions must of course all be taken. That also means that you cannot enter that immediately tomorrow, because it must also be against that background. This motion is heading in a direction that the cabinet likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u522	In response to Mr Zijlstra's remark, it was another half sentence, 'that we seem to have found the reserves', I note that the reserves are not in the budget. It doesn't have the structure in it. He can say twice that I have to look in the budget, but I challenge him to now give the pages where it is. The only thing it says is that the government has subscribed 2 billion in connection with not raising premiums. That's all it says. I'd like some straight facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u523	That's not what the government does. That's what an insurance company does. In the motion in part No. 8 is about the powers of the police. I took that up in my first term. We believe that the police have sufficient possibilities in failing to comply with an official order, including taking part in conspiracy or violating an area ban, not following an official order after which arrest can be followed, resisting the police, jumping on a police car, harassing and thus following with a camera, also by the measures made possible by the new Football Act. For example, the mayor can act already after a single disturbance of public order and that is enough to act quickly. That's why I'm deposing the motion. That is not because I disagree with the authors of the motion that this is an important issue, but we sincerely believe that there are sufficient instruments here. Let's keep looking creatively for what else we can come up with. That is certainly made possible by the Football Act. The Wilders motion in part No. Nine, I don't recommend. The Wilders motion in part No. I also advise against 10 because there is no cover. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 11 on the OCW budget, I see as a clear signal to the cabinet, in particular to the Minister of Finance. As I indicated in my first term, the government was already planning to carefully complete the estimate adjustment to the OCW budget next spring. I assume that Mr Pechtold is also referring to this revision of estimates. I can therefore see this motion as an encouragement to ensure, in line with government policy, that this adjustment of estimates is not at the expense of the funding of schools. I'll leave the motion, then, judge Chamber. About the motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 12. I can give you a letter. We come with a letter, and we listen to the debate through the hairs of our eyes. It will set out precisely how, in the context of the asylum flow, which has fortunately fallen considerably, it will prevent asylum seekers from receiving a language course wrongly. At the same time, in accordance with the December 2015 motion, we will bring forward the pre-accession and language course for the group of asylum seekers who will receive a residence permit with 95% certainty. That letter is for the consideration of the budget of V and J. That seems to me to be an important commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u524	I think it is an important commitment, but I also see it as implementing the motion, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u525	The judgment on the Pechtold c.s. motion. in piece No. 13 is in the Chamber. I understand the impatience and I feel it myself. We're gonna work really hard on it, so judgment room. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 14 deals with the timetable for the closure of coal plants. I do not recommend it, because there is a new percentage in it, namely 55% in 2030. This is a different percentage from that agreed in the EU. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The Segers motion in part No. 15 is without doubt policy support. It's a sympathetic motion; support policy. The Segers motion in part No. Sixteen, I'm not sure. The cabinet has freed up funds for shelter in the region. If in the future it appears that the asylum influx is lower than currently estimated and that the allocation of first-year reception costs to ODA is reduced, then the cabinet will again make a weighting for the use of the ODA budget, I can promise. Then we will certainly take into account what is being discussed in this motion, but not the compulsion that is now prescribed in the motion. That is why I advise against the motion, but I assure Mr Segers that we will consider the thoughts of the motion if, we hope, this situation should arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u526	With the cabinet's intention, I'd like to hold the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u527	At the request of Mr Segers, I propose his motion (34550), No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u528	By the way, I referred to the motion in part No. 12 on language also requested arrest. I don't know who filed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u529	Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u530	Oh, yeah. Mr Pechtold had not yet responded. My request is to hold the motion until that letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u531	Will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u532	At the request of Mr Pechtold, I propose his motion (34550), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u533	Thank you for that. At the Segers/Zijlstra motion in part No. 17 I refer to my introductory remarks that we are coming to the Chamber in mid-October with a letter on the approach to foreign financing. It will also address the principle of reciprocity. I ask Mr Segers to hold this motion until that letter is there, because it is a very sensitive matter, which is potentially rubbing off on freedom of religion. My request has been held, or else I would have to discourage the motion at this stage. Then I come to the motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 18 on the resettlement of asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. I don't recommend that motion. We respond quickly to the relocation requests; with 100 people each month from Greece and 50 from Italy. We're ahead of the top three. There were indeed many initial problems, especially in Greece. The Netherlands has helped to improve that process. That's getting better now, too. It is now important for other Member States to step up their efforts to a similar level. In the meantime, we will continue to honour our commitments. What is stated in the motion, namely that we should have realized these numbers by 2016, is not correct. That should be the years 2016 and 2017. On balance, I advise against this motion. In the motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 19 the government is requested not to tax the ODA budget further if the costs for first-year care are higher than estimated. I advise against this motion because since the beginning of the 1990s it has been a firm policy of the cabinet to cover costs for first-year care from and to be allocated to ODA. This is also in line with the OECD-DAC criteria. This motion has an open-ended claim without cover. I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 20 is about drawing up an exit strategy with target dates and so on. This motion I must advise against. We published the Energy Report in January. Among other things, it indicates that we are moving towards a low carbon economy. The role of fossil fuels in energy supply is declining, but we will still need fossil fuels in the coming decades. In this respect, the cabinet has undertaken a careful process together with companies, civil society organisations, citizens and scientists. This motion goes through that process and I do not think that it would be helpful. I therefore advise against this motion. I propose that Mr Van der Staaij take the Van der Staaij and others motion for a resolution. in piece No. 21 continues until a judgment is given in an ongoing trial. I think that's the purest thing. The problem is, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Then I really have to agree with what has been said about this in an interrupting debate. It is possible that shopkeepers enter into contracts with landlords in which they commit themselves to certain opening hours, including on Sundays. This can sometimes lead to fines from the landlord. The Shopping Times Act is currently being evaluated. The Minister for Economic Affairs will inform the Chamber of this matter before the end of the year. If I'm forced to rule on the motion now, I have to dissuade her because I don't think she's reasonable. At the same time, there's a lawsuit. Perhaps then it would be better to wait for the verdict and hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u534	It's not just about this individual case. Here is a broader pattern. Therefore, I do not think it is wise to wait for very lengthy legal proceedings. The question really is now to identify exactly what the problems are and to find solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u535	It is still very complicated, because if a landlord would have agreed that the property should be open on Sundays and someone refused to do so, then that would be a private matter between the tenant and the landlord. I have no choice but to discourage a motion in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u536	Of course, it can be a matter of private law. This is the case in the case of a contract of excellence. On the other hand, there are many ways of protecting vulnerable interests, including in our private law. That could very well be the case here. Here too, it is true that there is no equivalent relationship between the parties. Entrepreneurs should not only have a paper freedom, but also a real freedom to keep things closed if they want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u537	I don't know where it comes from that relationship would be uneven. It is a private agreement between the tenant and the landlord. It may say that the property, the store, must be open on Sundays. Again, the Minister for Economic Affairs is currently evaluating the Shopping Time Act and he is giving an opinion on it before the end of the year. I don't want to anticipate that. In addition, the trial is ongoing. I also find this complicated in substance. I understand very well what Van der Staaij says. My experience is that in cities and villages where shops are closed on Sundays, most shops are closed. Then no shop is open, if only because it is not commercially sensible either. However, if you have made an appointment with the landlord about opening on Sundays at the same time, it is complicated to cross that with government policy. We will then intervene very much in private law, especially in the light of the fact that a great deal is empty. Currently, a lot of shopping space is available as a result of market changes and the increase in purchasing over the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u538	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u539	We also know in private law unfairly burdensome terms. We know about consumer protection. We have certain restrictions in the rental right. It is therefore never an unlimited freedom of contract, especially when vulnerable interests are at stake. The point here is: make sure that the freedom of choice that exists for entrepreneurs on paper is actually there in practice. There are several signs that things are going wrong. That is why I am asking for measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u540	Against the background of a difference of opinion between Mr Van der Staaij and myself on how to weigh this precisely and also on the ongoing trial, I must advise against this motion. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 22. If I may take this motion in such a way that the government will inform the Chamber after consultation with Zeeland, we shall do so. It's a little complicated. If it is intended to carry out all the opinions of the Balkenende Committee, I must advise against the motion, because it is then uncovered. However, if Mr Van der Staaij asks the government to inform the Chamber after consultation with the province of Zeeland, so that it can be discussed further, I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u541	Indeed, we are asking for a quick consultation with Zeeland. This, of course, also requires something from Zeeland itself, for example to consider favourably what the parties can agree on and what the financial consequences are. We can then discuss it further in the next budget. The General Financial Reviews are still under way, as is the examination of the Economic Affairs budget. We would be very sorry if we were to find ourselves in a situation where everything is already closed and it is said that there is actually no more pot that can be addressed for that. No one has been held to the impossible, of course, but the political signal is to talk and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. That is indeed the thrust of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u542	We inform the Chamber after consultation with Zeeland, but we do not make any promises about jars. 'Cause there's no game. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 23. It is known that marginal pressure is high for some groups; not only for single-earners but also for single and two-earners. This high marginal pressure is inherent in our system of targeted income support to low-income households. This is regularly reported by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and by Social Affairs. It is possible to reduce marginal pressure and to make work more attractive, but this either leads to income effects at the bottom, or costs a lot of money. Solutions to this are not easy. This really seems to me to be something for the electoral programmes, if I may put it that way. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 24 is about ambitions for a more sustainable and natural inclusive agriculture. I suggest you hold this motion. The cabinet is coming up with a letter on this. I propose that this motion be included. If the motion is put to the vote now, I'd advise against her. I think it would be better to hold this motion. The motion in part No. 25 calls for every effort to avoid reductions in pensions. This motion is too radical and too general for me. So I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The new financial review framework will be able to spread back-up and setbacks. That is intergenerationally balanced. Secretary of State Klijnsma said she wanted to examine whether the recovery periods could be set at 11 years instead of 10 years. I think she has explained in the general consultation that we would take too great intergenerational risks if we went beyond that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u543	If a cabinet succeeds in saving a bank with high debts on one weekend, it should be possible to sit around the table with pension funds in three months to see when they have enough cash to pay out a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u544	It's not up to us. So we'll go back to this morning's discussion. Let us avoid deciding, as a Chamber or cabinet, whether a pension fund has enough cash. Then we really run the risk that the short term will win over the longer term. We need to keep the balance. Older people also have children, and children have parents. Let us not destroy that bridge, which has been struck so closely in this society, and not just by this cabinet but already before. The motion in part No. 26, I advise. In fact, there is a balanced purchasing power development. For 2017, the cabinet has already earmarked 800 million for the elderly as a repair. We cannot be responsible for what the social partners are responsible for, namely pensions in the second pillar. We're in charge of the AOW. In the meantime, it is again very long-term financially viable. We find the analysis in Mr Kuzu's motion in part No. 27 extremely one-sided. The Minister for Social Affairs and the whole other cabinet are, of course, working to ensure that segregation is combated on all sides, but not from the perspective outlined in this motion. We do not share this view of the problem. The motion in part No. Twenty-eight, I have to advise against it. We will take those steps if it is financially possible. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I'm telling you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u545	I would like to point out that this is not only my analysis, but also that of the Social Cultural Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u546	I'll come back to the motion on part No. 17. The Prime Minister asked me to hold it. He said he'd send a letter. We know that the letter and the WODC investigation are coming, but we would like to put the motion to the vote in order to give this direction to the cabinet. If that is possible, then we will return to the conversation, but this is the direction we would like to give. That's why I'm not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u547	Then I would like to dissuade her with some force, because the motion is very general. I'm gonna grab her, or I'm gonna do it out of my head. As you can see, my administration is excellent; here is the motion. The motion calls on the government to "not allow funding of institutions from countries that do not themselves have freedom of religion and freedom of expression." I am concerned with the word 'institutions'. As it is said here, things are going very far. I'm really dissuading the motion. I want the cabinet to have the space to put this very carefully on paper. That is why I asked Mr Segers to hold the motion. We fully agree that financing of terrorism is excluded; that is a no-go. We all agree on that. But then you get the whole question of financing from abroad. This relates extremely precariously to the freedom of religion. I think we should be careful not to be short-sighted, but Mr Segers is dealing with his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u548	We would like to give this direction. We'll wait for the letter. We know that the cabinet will work carefully, but we would like to give this direction to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u549	Okay. If the motion makes it, we'll obviously involve her in the letter. If the motion doesn't make it, we will. However, the motion is so extreme and absolutely stated that I am a little concerned about it. Maybe I can say a single word to conclude these General Reviews. We have now debated the 2017 budget for two days in these General Political Reviews. All the fractions have given colour and direction to these considerations, with a view to coming and subsequent years. Even after the crisis and its handling, there are issues to be dealt with and resolved when setting a steady course for our country; you can determine that on the basis of these two days. It was not just about the economy, but also about the care, the migration, the relations in our society and the world around us. Will the Netherlands remain in the Netherlands? I have re-established this for the sixth or seventh time as Prime Minister of the General Reviews; as chairman of the political group, I have also done so before that all the group chairmen have the ambition to ensure that the Netherlands is and remains a strong country in their own way. The Cabinet is convinced that we can achieve this by working together, by bridging differences and by preserving and defending the values we share. The versatility of views, views and choice of words, yes, even the choice of words in this debate, shows how alive and dynamic the meaning of the constitutional provision that the States-General represent the entire Dutch people. It also follows from the Constitution that these are the last General Political Reviews of the House of Representatives in this composition. Of course, governments and States-General have different tasks and responsibilities, but I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude and appreciation for the support that the cabinet, often through constructive consultations, has experienced at various and important moments in recent years and found at large majorities in the Chamber, leaving this country in a very difficult phase of its history manageable. In doing so, we show that, when it comes to it, we in our country are strong together through consultation and that we are doing what is necessary. These are values in our parliamentary democracy and society that we must cherish, maintain and maintain. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-7.u550	A number of groups have expressed the need for a 25-minute suspension before we vote.
