ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. This time, of course, the General Financial Reviews are not just about the Millions Note. At the end of the reign of this cabinet, it is clear that we are also looking back on the results of four years of Rutte II and its consequences for 2017. Moreover, the Millions Note itself does so extensively, but with such a biased view and with so many half-truths and inaccuracies, that we need to talk about this in itself. Let us begin with the Prime Minister's financial promises for this reign: hands off the mortgage interest rate deduction, not a penny to Greece and every Dutchman €1,000. None of these promises have been fulfilled. The mooring of mortgage interest has plunged the Netherlands into the worst housing crisis in decades. It was so bad, the whole new building also came to a halt. Greece was given a new support programme right after this cabinet took office in 2012: until 1 January 2015, it received a total of 142 billion in EFSF loans and it received 11.8 billion from the IMF. In 2015, payments from the ESM amounting to 21.4 billion and a bridging loan of 7.2 billion from the EFSM were added. The Netherlands now guarantees the ESM, the ESF and the other emergency funds for a total amount of over €90 billion. That amount can be claimed one day. In addition, every Dutchman would receive €1,000. It was a mirage: a mirage of which nothing has been heard. Check with the AOW guy with a small pension. It declined 3.7% a year in the past cabinet period. A single AOW'er went down 2.7%. The modal sole earner declined by 0.6% during this cabinet period. However, what follows from the 2017 Millions Note? A quarter of the elderly aren't getting any better, while the insane surcharge system makes the whole thing more and more complicated for everyone. So much for the Prime Minister's tough promises before the elections. In the meantime, well before the next elections, he apologized for this, hoping that we would stop talking about it. Well, the Dutch electorate is not as dumb as people seem to think in this cabinet. A few weeks ago, my car crashed through a third of it by someone who was on the phone while driving and forgot to brake. The guy said he was sorry, too. But then he, or at least his insurance, also compensated for the damage. This is a reasonable agreement in this country, which applies to every ordinary citizen, but apparently not to this cabinet. I come now to the financial misery that this cabinet had not promised, but which we received from the cabinet for free. Let me start literally close to home for that. As Members know, I live on the border. Many petrol pumps have been shut down throughout the border area during this cabinet period. The difference in price for automotive fuels between the Netherlands on the one hand and Germany and Belgium on the other hand was almost zero at the beginning of this cabinet period, but now, at the end of Rutte II, for ordinary petrol is about €0.30 per litre. The middle class that was in the vicinity of these petrol pumps also leads a soul-blowing existence, thanks to this cabinet. The government is in the middle of something I have already reported before, physically coincidentally at the widest possible distance from the border region. With this example as a symbol, it has also placed itself at maximum distance from the citizen. What is happening to governments that place themselves at a great distance from the citizens, we have just seen in the American presidential elections. The tone of the whole Millionsnota breathes, in line with what I have just said, that it is doing better thanks to this cabinet. However, the Dutch citizen thinks: things are getting a little bit better despite this cabinet. Thanks to this cabinet, at least a lot later on, we are scraping out of the crisis. From the start of the credit crisis in 2008 to 2012, household consumption in our country decreased by 4.4%. Over the same period, consumption in Belgium grew by 3.2% and in Germany by 4.3%. Over the following period from 2012 to 2015, Dutch households saw their real disposable income increase by 2.6% of GDP, i.e. 0.6% or 6.0% per year, while Belgian and German incomes improved by 5.4% and 7.8% respectively in the same period. For those who want to look into it, I say that the figures I used are from Eurostat. In absolute terms, too, we are increasingly lagging behind our neighbours. And then I am not even talking about non-EU member Norway, where in that period the real disposable income of households increased by as much as 12.6%. Although Norway is not an EU member, the figures are on Eurostat's website. The fact that things are finally getting a little bit better doesn't strike me as something to beat you to the chest. We are still a few years behind on the surrounding countries. After all, the sharp cuts in recent years have only aggravated the recession. I am aware that Keynes' theories from the 1970s have gotten a bit in the background. In the meantime, however, they are commonplace again. And the Minister of Finance can't be so far behind, that he thinks a pro-cyclical policy would suddenly be good for the economy? In any case, in recent years, the Dutch government has constantly opted for austerity at a time when the economic situation has deteriorated. Unfortunately, the consequences of this are still visible. That is what CPB, ING, Court of Auditors and many economists are saying. All that only because Brussels had to. Because we had to stick to the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP). And how did that happen in other countries? Well, in most southern countries there has never been any concern. Brussels has never taken action against this either. Or could our Finance Minister, also President of the Eurogroup, perhaps indicate how many fines have been collected in recent years from countries that have broken the rules of the SGP? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. But we still have an EMU deficit of 0.5% in 2017 and an EMU debt of 62% is proudly mentioned in the Millions Note. Further study shows the tricks that are used for this purpose. I will mention a number of them. The increase in GDP, which increases the denominator, is, of course, not an illusion, which is happening despite the government. But the measure of treasury banking by local authorities will, of course, help a few billion. Privatising ABN AMRO, ASR and SNS Properties is good for several billions. The removal of the self-employed pension will yield 2.1 billion in 2017 according to the government's estimates. This subject is a bit like the fairy tale of Sjaak and the Beanstak, in which Sjaak is sent to the village to sell the poor cow of the family on the market. The only difference is that it ends well with Sjaak, thanks to the fact that there are a few miracles happening there. Finally, the flat-rate return used in box 3 in the system applicable from 2017. According to the Ministry's progress note on this subject, the difference from the imposition of a tax on the basis of the actual return results in several billions. That some people just call that theft makes sense to me. Thanks to the VVD Secretary of State for Taxation, who is eagerly even unsolicited, to devise and implement PvdA policy. Not so much a coup d'état by this cabinet and this minister, but at least by Mr Draghi of the ECB, is his policy to bring interest rates to zero in order to make the lending by southern Europe free of charge. An unprecedented transfer of money from northern to southern Europe is the result. And yes, it also saves the Dutch Treasury 1.5 billion that one has to pay less interest on the sovereign debt. Unfortunately, Henk and Ingrid are screwed. Their savings are evaporated and despite the fact that the money in the pension pots is floating across the edges, pensions are reduced by a bizarre reasoning which applies to pension funds, but not to large assets. That's what this cabinet has come up with. Whatever this cabinet has invented and what it is proud of are the reforms. Long-term care was broken down and a large part of the nursing homes were closed down or converted into asylum seekers' centre. 83.000 care workers lost their jobs. The pension system was broken down, the AOW age had to be increased further, the pre-pension schemes were abolished without any doubt, so that many former military officers, former police officers, former firefighters and so on, who were forced to pre-retirement or not, are now pushed over the poverty line simply because the transitional arrangements promised to them were abolished. I have already discussed the planned construction to flood pension funds in order to reduce pensions. Meanwhile, pension funds and insurers' assets have grown by over 615 billion to 1,700 billion since 2008. More than half of the total pension assets in Europe are Dutch. The covetous glances from Brussels are becoming more and more intrusive and irritating. But this cabinet of urophils isn't worried. That leaves it to the people who cut their pension year after year. I was talking about the ECB's bizarre policy. For a number of years now, the PVV has been calling for us to get rid of the euro, which only means that our money is being transferred to southern Europe and that we have nothing more to say about it. At first we were hoarded for this, but now more and more economists are starting to take our side, or at least to turn their backs when it comes to the euro. In the meantime, Nobel Prizewinner Joseph Stiglitz has also found that the euro is a dead end. We are not talking about a songwriter who wins the Nobel Prize for Literature, but about a winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, one of the most acclaimed economists of our time. It is really worrying that this government is no longer concerned about the direction in which the euro is going. The only thing this cabinet seems to be worried about is the Brexit. In fact, the cabinet still believes the anti-propaganda on this subject initiated by itself and its friends in Brussels. Around hysterical the reactions were when the British decided democratically on 23 June this year to choose their own path. Sensible people saw immediately after the referendum that the fairs at the end of the Brexit week were not lower, but even higher than at the beginning, on the Monday morning of that week. The Telegraaf needed a few days to find out that the fairs had crawled out of what she called the Brexit ravine. It took the FD three months to find that the ravine was nothing more than a ditch. The British Office for National Statistics has now announced that after the Brexit unemployment has fallen to 4.7%, the lowest point in eleven years. By comparison, according to the CPB, unemployment in the Netherlands is falling to 6.2% this year. I'm rounding up. This cabinet has not only been completely wrong with the disinformation about Brexit, it has also seriously affected the pension system. It has followed its slaves from Brussels, where other countries have not done so, so hard and wrongly cut back that the economy has suffered serious damage. That while there were plenty of opportunities to cut down on parts that barely affect the economy. Over the years, the PVV has put forward many topics, such as cuts in Brussels and development aid, cuts in asylum influx, cuts in public broadcasting, subsidies for artists who are wrongly called art subsidies, windmills and innovation subsidies. As for the latter one hilarious detail that shows how, once the subsidy jars are opened, the creative mind is extinguished. The nine top sectors identified by EZ a few years ago and thus opened up to Egypt's meat jars now appear to be falling significantly behind the rest of the economy in terms of growth. Growth in five years 2.8%, compared with 4.53% for total production. In short: time for a new cabinet. The Netherlands is ready to be squeezed by a cabinet that runs entirely on the leash of Brussels. Time to stop bowing to the European state of salvation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year we were able to anticipate it a bit, but now we can really take stock of four years of economic and financial policy by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet and this minister. Our group has also come to know this minister as highly competent and politically competent. But these competences do not yet lead to good policies. One problem is and will remain that if your policy is based on wrong starting points, you will rarely come out well. As far as we are concerned, this Minister has been very skilfully pursuing the completely wrong policy. These compliments also apply to the Secretary of State. It will not surprise anyone that the balance sheet for the last four years is negative as far as we are concerned. However, I know that politics is even more true than in ordinary life: you can be right, but getting right is verse two. Fortunately, more and more people agree with us, right up to the think tank of one of our national grand banks. On the other hand, the roaring lyrics of the Throne speech and the Millions' Note depict an economy which, thanks to its hard efforts, is now well-intentioned. It was hard, we made a trip through the desert, in the words of the Prime Minister, but now the oasis is really beckoning. The Netherlands has, as we read and hear time and time again, 'come out of the crisis stronger'. Our position is simple. This cabinet has managed to put the budget in order, that is to say to reduce the deficit, that totem pole where the austerity fetishists of the government parties and their doers have kept dancing around so eagerly. However, it is partly because of the fetish that the budget may be, but the economy is far from being in order, and society is certainly not. The cabinet also acknowledges this to some extent. People don't notice it yet, it's called, but it's going to be worked on, especially after the elections. How do you suppose people don't know it yet? How is it that there is recovery but that we are still not rid of that malaise? According to my group, the statement is simple. The effects of government policy, four years of Rutte-Asscher, make the malaise palpable on a daily basis, sometimes literally. Many of the consequences of this cabinet's billions of savings are only now being felt, and its effects will continue for years to come. Moreover, the General Court has found that more research is needed to identify the precise effects. We hope that this research will be carried out soon. In the Lower House, the Minister has promised to work on this. We hope that the results will also come to this Chamber. Cabinet policy rests on three pillars according to its own words: the budget in order, sustainable growth and fair sharing. I will argue that, although we are now moving towards a balanced budget, this is not necessarily prudent budgetary policy and that the other pillars of our economy remain weak. Growth is fragile and inequality is still increasing. I shall now turn to the budgetary policy and its effects. Then, in conjunction with this, there is a second block on what remains a major weakness of our economy, the fragile financial sector, also seen in a European context. In a third block, I will then go into another consequence of the policy pursued, the growing inequality, because this cabinet has not succeeded in achieving the objective of fair sharing. The ING's economic research office has shown that the price of austerity policy has been high. According to ING, up to and including the current budget, 44 billion has been cut for a deficit reduction of 22 billion. CPB figures show that fiscal policy has cost 0.7% growth per year, more than 5% in total. According to Bas Jacobs' calculations, this cost about 365,000 jobs. The Minister acknowledges these figures. That's good, but what kind of self-reflection do these figures lead to in the Minister's office? We haven't seen much of that. The Minister also continues to defend this cabinet's budgetary policy with the knowledge of his choices at the time. However, his arguments do not convince. He refers, for example, to the capital markets. Does he really want to say that as a Social Democratic Minister he was entirely at the forefront of the financial markets? That would be sad, wouldn't it? According to the Minister, debt would increase irresponsiblely, but with more growth, the debt rate will also decrease. Can the Minister go into that again? Does the ING's analysis not just show that, with less cuts and initially a higher deficit, we could have achieved the same goal, namely a significant deficit reduction, but without hundreds of thousands of additional unemployed, through increased economic growth and tax revenues? I have not received any answers to these questions, which have been submitted in writing. Could he perhaps explain that again, even to all those who, according to these analyses, unnecessarily lost their jobs? The budget may be in order, but we have paid a great and unnecessary price for it. What good is it if the budget is in order if, in the same years in which it has been achieved, long-term unemployment has remained persistently high and poverty in the Netherlands has increased? What good is it for the government to bring down its debt if private debt remains so high and has risen even further? According to the CBS, this is an increase of 216% of GDP in 2008 to 229% in early 2016. What good is it if the shortage falls, but at the same time the number of hands on the bed decreases, there are still far too few social rental homes in the Netherlands and there are far too large classes? What good is it if we burden our children with less public debt, but at the same time not enough investment in tomorrow's society? What good is it if we reduce the deficit to 1.5%, or to 0.5% later, while the climate target of a temperature increase of not more than 2°C will certainly not be met with current policies? The unilateral focus of this cabinet on reducing the budget deficit is a short-sighted policy. The budget deficit has been reduced, but the deficits in society have risen. If the Dutch economy needed anything after the crisis, apart from tackling the banks, it was additional investment to get the economy back on track. They are not done, unlike the countries around us. Does the Minister think, looking back, that the Netherlands has made sufficient public investment? The successive austerity packages have not only cut off the economy and increased unemployment but also reduced the quality of society. The cuts have mainly affected those groups that make more use of public services and are dependent on a protective and caring government. In this way, the crisis caused by the banks and neoliberal policies at the service of an economic elite can be traced first and foremost to those in society who were already struggling. However, many of the VVD's always praised "hardworking Dutch" have also had to pay the price for the crisis in the form of lagging wages, a much higher own risk, higher rents, less social security and so on. The Dutch austerity policy must, of course, also be seen in a European context. In the Millions note, the Minister himself refers to the European fiscal regime as an explanation for the one-sided focus on deficit reduction in the fiscal policy pursued. However, the policy of austerity has proved not to be the solution, but the problem! But also, if you let go of the austerity obsession at European level, you will be left with an EMU which, from a macroeconomic and democratic point of view, is a thing, as Professor Stiglitz, mentioned earlier this morning, explained in detail in his latest book. The Minister has already discussed these difficult issues with Professor Stiglitz, so let us not repeat them here. However, I still have a few questions to ask the Minister about how he thinks monetary union should proceed, especially in the light of his own Five Presidents' Report. Is this document still a guide for him when it comes to strengthening the currency union? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of this agenda? At what time does the Minister think that the looming errors of EMU, which he acknowledges are there, need to be repaired in order to avoid a next and potentially fatal euro crisis? One part of the structure that this cabinet believes should support the euro is the banking union. We have discussed this with this Minister before, and we do not need to do it again here. I do have one more question. How does the Minister look at the effectiveness of the Banking Union in view of the renewed problems of the European banking sector, recently especially with Italian banks and Deutsche Bank? The Minister has always praised the Banking Union as a major step forward, because now the principle would apply that it is no longer the citizens who have to pay for saving banks, but shareholders and creditors. Is he still sure that this will be fully enforced in practice? Or are we gonna have another bailout instead of bail-in? I'd like a response from the Minister. If it is up to the Commission and this cabinet, we will not only have a European banking union, but also a so-called capital market union. The Commission now intends to speed up the implementation of this new union, with the support of the cabinet. The Capital Markets Union should lead to a more efficient allocation of capital and better risk diversification. The SP Group wonders how much larger the next financial crisis will have to be, before this minister too wants to release the dogma that increases the freedom of movement for capital leads to greater efficiency. The opposite turned out to be true in 2008. Instead of risk diversification, we saw how risks spread throughout the system. This was also done thanks to securitisation and other "financial weapons of mass destruction," which the EU now intends to promote again in the framework of the Capital Markets Union. It is warmly supported by this cabinet. Perhaps the Minister could explain again why he thinks that what led to great instability of the financial system in 2008 will now suddenly contribute to stable growth in Europe? The relationship between the real economy and the financial sector is still out of control. These new European initiatives threaten them even further. In my group's view, this imbalance is one of the main reasons why all the lights on the Dutch economy seem to be green, but there is still a bright orange warning light on, or at least should be lit. Could the Minister please tell us what he thinks about that? There is no proper balance between society and the financial sector. Successive Dutch Cabinets contributed to this imbalance with their policies. This has also recently been argued and explained in detail in a report by the WRR. The SP Group is very much looking forward to the official cabinet response to this interesting report. Could the Minister please give us a tip of the veil? The latest figures from the CPB are nice. It is gratifying to see that unemployment is finally falling, even faster than expected in recent months, even though it is still far too high. But the question remains whether this trend is continuing. The composition of employment growth also gives reason to think, because the number of temporary employment jobs in particular is increasing. The number of flex jobs is again increasing faster than the number of permanent jobs. In addition, the number of jobs in care, the main care of many people, continues to decrease. A total of 88 000 jobs have disappeared in healthcare in the last four years. These figures do not yet show sustainable growth. Nor are they a sign that we really invest in the quality of our society. I come to my third theme, the growing social inequality. This increase is not merely reflected in a variety of statistics. That increase is evident for anyone who keeps his eyes and ears open in this country. I would like to mention a few facts and figures in a row, because the cabinet likes to stick to the idea that it shared fairly and that it did not allow the differences to increase. This proved to be the case during the General Political Reviews in the House of Representatives. The leveling party of PvdA chairman Spekman appeared to have been canceled immediately. Instead, it has become mainly a party for the highest incomes. The CPB calculated that in the period 2014 to 2017, the disposable income of 175% of the minimum wage and above increased about twice as much as the purchasing power of people with an income up to 175% of the minimum wage. The CPB also expects that the gini coefficient, a limited measure of inequality in itself, will increase further in the longer term. The pay gap, the difference between the highest and lowest paid within companies, has also increased further. My group wonders whether the cabinet could not have done more in the context of fair sharing. Meanwhile, poverty in the Netherlands has increased alarmingly in recent years. The number of households in the Netherlands below the poverty line has increased from 514,000 in 2010 to 734,000 in 2014. The number of children living in poverty has increased from 314.000 in 2010 to 421.000 in 2014. Food bank clients increased from 50,000 in 2010 to 88,000 in 2015. What measures should be taken in the budget to combat poverty effectively, I ask the Minister. We are pleased that the government is giving an extra 100 million to children who are growing up in poverty. But after all the cuts, remaining incomes and still around 400,000 poor kids, this isn't much more than a Band-Aid on the wound, is it? That Band-Aid is welcome, but it won't heal the wound. We are therefore looking forward to the outcome of the study by the ESC and the SCP requested by this Chamber per motion on how to achieve a better policy to combat child poverty. Can the Minister inform us of the state of play with regard to this investigation? From the field we get some disturbing reports about this. The research would not really want to speed up and also the more fundamental question, according to the operative part of the motion I tabled and adopted, the better policy can be pursued, i.e. an examination of policy alternatives, would not be fully addressed. What has also contributed to the less social rather than the socialisation of our economy under Rutte-Asscher is that wages have fallen further behind profits. In the period from 2006 to 2014, according to McKinsey's research institute, a large majority in the Netherlands declined in disposable income, while the highest quintile showed an increase. Incomes in the lowest quintile have seen the greatest decline. My question to the Minister is simple: do McKinsey's figures now indicate a larger or smaller income inequality in the period mentioned? More generally, the relationship between labour and capital has been completely out of control. The share of labour income in total national income has fallen steadily in recent decades and is now historically low according to new calculations by the Netherlands Bank. That is nothing but a redistribution of labour to capital. As argued, the austerity policy for large groups of Dutch people has been disastrous. The present budget does not change that. There are no more cuts, but the catch-up that my group believes is needed after the balding of the past few years is not yet under way. The cabinet chooses to spend 1.5 billion more now after 50 billion in cuts. That is hardly a spending impulse, and that is yet another missed opportunity. Moreover, in my group's view, the money is partly spent on the wrong purposes. The amount of 300 million extra for Defense is based on the dangerous assumption that the increasing tensions in the world can be solved with even more weapons. We are pleased that, under great pressure from this Chamber in particular, extra money is finally going to Security and Justice. But we fear that there is still underinvestment. The rule of law still threatens to be the child of the account. We shall come back to the budget debate on V and J. There is 1.1 billion in burden relief and purchasing power repair, but inequality continues to increase. It is time for a real social investment agenda. The money is there, not least among the millionaires and multinationals who are still getting away with large-scale tax evasion and avoidance. As far as the SP Group is concerned, they can contribute much more anyway. However, as far as tax evasion and avoidance are concerned, we are pleased that Europe is now implementing the OECD agreements. We are pleased that this Secretary of State is behind this, although this is only a first step in the right direction for us. However, we are surprised and concerned that we read in the Millions Note that the expected additional tax revenues from this approach of tax avoidance are returned to the companies. The SP Group really doesn't understand this. If you find that multinationals are avoiding their fair contribution to society and you are still able to collect it, why would you allow that money to flow back to business? I would like a response from the Secretary of State. I shall now come to the conclusion of my speech. The government should have invested much earlier in health care, education, sustainability, new and decent paid jobs in the public sector, in SMEs and so on. But here again: better in half than in complete error. Even the European Commission has now stated that the Netherlands has more room for public investment than we use and calls on the government to take that space, using the fact that the Netherlands can now borrow free money. According to a Commission simulation, additional structural public investment of 1% of GDP through higher growth would fully finance itself. We know this minister as someone who always takes the recommendations from Brussels very seriously. In fact, the cabinet is proud to follow them well. Will the cabinet follow this recommendation? Is there going to be an interim adjustment of the budget? We're curious. I'd like a response from the Minister. The same applies to this question as to our other questions: as always, we look forward to answering them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "The most important lesson for Europe and the world is clear. It is urgent that globalisation should fundamentally move in a different direction. The main challenges of our time are growing inequality and global warming." This is a quote from Piketty in Le Monde, not by chance from November 2016, so after Trump's victory in the United States. In this light, we want to look at the four years of the Rutte II cabinet, because of course this message is not new. The great concern we have is how we connect people in today's society and how we secure the basis of our existence, the earth. Today we look back at four years of Rutte II cabinet, a cabinet that wanted to build bridges in the Netherlands. To begin with, a bridge between the VVD and the PvdA. That job would be done by the builders Rutte and Samsom. The quality has been constantly under discussion, but fair is fair: the bridge is there. That's worth a compliment. The cabinet is most likely to make it to the finish line, and that was not self-evident. Also compliments on the falling deficit to 0.5% and the scope for new investment that has now been created. "The Netherlands stands better for it." That is the title of the 2017 Millions Note. However, my group has a number of important questions. What about society now? The division has increased in many areas according to the report of the SCP, which speaks of separate worlds. Not bridges, but wider channels and rifts, and not inclusion, but exclusion. Not more tolerance, but less. It's not us, it's us. How is the Netherlands really doing? Financially better than four years ago, it seems, but we also see that 5% of employment has evaporated, or hundreds of thousands of jobs, and 16% of growth has been lost in eight years, of which about 6% is due to budgetary policy. What social consequences does this have? What does it mean for the people affected by this? What does it mean for unemployment, for the living environment and for investment in a green economy? Are we going to build bridges to that sustainable future, to greater security, to address the climate problem? Doesn't look like it. For us, the historical low point of the Netherlands' contribution to development cooperation is significant, not least under a PvdA minister: 0.56% of GDP. Part of this also has to be paid for the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. The polarisation has undoubtedly increased, both in Europe and in our country. People don't feel heard, excluded, or need to pick up. The Netherlands has become more unequal and many different groups notice this. Long-term unemployed people feel that they have been written off. People with only AOW or a small pension can barely pay their care costs or rent. Dutch young people with an ethnic background have much less job opportunities than their native peers. People with disabilities do not find a job despite promises about employment and security. People are getting lost in the digitized and increasingly complex world. A globalised world with clear winners and losers. These questions remain with us after four years of cabinet, especially how we are going to deal with this, how we are going to solve this and how we are going to make people feel at home again, feel seen and participate in education, work, culture and sport, meet and live together in freedom, equality and solidarity. Has the government's policy contributed to this or not? Looking at the 50 billion in budget cuts, and I am taking into account the increase in the burden of 5 billion burdens at the end and the result, I would like to point out, like other colleagues, the report of the Court of Auditors on its impact. The ING is even more critical and has said that it has little effect. The cabinet says: it's not exactly like that and the ING report can go to the trash can. That's typical of me. The General Court does indeed ask a very valid question: Cabinet, what was the real effect of your cuts? The ING talks about much unnecessary damage and cuts by the cabinet. Economist Bas Jacobs and also the colleague of the SP say that 100,000 jobs in the collective sector have been lost and over 350 000 in total between 2008 and 2016. In fact, they are confirmed by the calculations of the CPB. This also means that from 2008 to 2016, 0.7% growth per year has been lost, in total almost 5% of employment. That's 365 000 jobs indeed. What does the Cabinet think of this bald blow? What do you think of this policy if you look back at it? The members of the SP have just asked legitimate questions. A deficit reduction of 22 billion was achieved by double cuts. In short: does the cabinet still think all this is so sensible afterwards? How does the government evaluate the economic and social impact of its financial policy? When does the cabinet come up with an assessment of budgetary policy? European Commissioner Moscovici calls on countries such as the Netherlands and Germany to adopt more generous fiscal policies and public spending to drive Europe's ailing economy. What is the government's response to this call? Is this not a very clear signal that the Netherlands has invested too little and cut too hard? I am very interested in the Minister's response. Fair sharing was a very important goal of this cabinet and certainly of the party of the Minister of Finance. How then is it that income development under this cabinet has not become fairer? Together with the SP we have already crossed the swords with the cabinet in the Lower House, but our thesis on the growing inequality was referred to the realm of fables. However, CPB transfers do confirm an uneven income development under this cabinet. Lower incomes to 175% of the minimum wage increased by 4.3% in purchasing power between 2014 and 2017, or €830 per year. On the other hand, the purchasing power of the highest income above the 500% minimum wage increased by 7.2%, or more than €4,000. That's five times as much as the lowest incomes. In the case of beneficiaries, this difference is much greater. They increased only 3.8% compared to the workers 9.1%. How does the cabinet assess this income development? Is this what the Cabinet means by "fair sharing"? And of course, what's it gonna do about it? Is it still prepared to reduce this increase in income inequality? We see that the cabinet is investing 1.1 billion in strengthening the purchasing power of those who need it. That is a good step, but it is, of course, totally inadequate to correct the inequality that has arisen. So what else is the Cabinet going to do? With the SP I draw attention to the figures that show that incredibly many Dutch people have been in poverty for three years or more. According to the figures I have at my disposal, they are 600,000 people. That's twice as many as previously thought. Work is no longer a guarantee to get out of poverty, says the SCP. What exactly is the Cabinet going to do for these people? What is it going to do for the people who live in poverty or who are working poor? What is the government's view of the increase of almost 15% in the number of children growing up in poverty? The SP colleague just mentioned the figures. Then, of course, the 100 million is beautiful, but it is not a structural solution. What else is the Cabinet gonna do? The income inequality between all kinds of groups has grown and has also widened, because it concerns income inequality between low-skilled and highly educated people, between tenants and buyers, between flex workers and people on permanent contracts, between people who have traditionally lived here and immigrants, and between workers and welfare recipients. Also with the 5 billion in relief last year, this inequality has increased slightly. After all, people with higher incomes also received money, which was completely unnecessary and could have been better invested in care, education, climate and nature. Of course, it has been a political choice to widen the gap between workers and non-workers. The increase in income inequality between the beneficiary and the worker is a striking example of this. It is important and good that unemployment has fallen to 5.6%, but it is still too high. The big question is: is this decline going to continue? We are concerned about 2017, because the Macro Economic Recognition for 2017 states that unemployment remains the same. It's not dropping any further. So there would be stagnation despite the economic recovery next year. I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet. How does it see that? Surely it cannot be that the only answer from the cabinet is: it is actually going well, because there are just many more people who want to work; so that is going in the right direction? Surely it can't be that such a large group of Dutch people, who do want to work, are on the sidelines for a long time? In short, what is the cabinet going to do about this stagnation? Why do we not find concrete targets for employment growth in the Millions Note? Is the cabinet prepared to set out concrete objectives for this? I would like to endorse the critical remarks made by my colleague from D66 on the DBA Act. Everything that goes wrong now has come to the table here in this room. What we warned you about just happened. Zzp'ers who consciously opt for the zzp-schap have been duped. They are no longer accepted and are no longer given orders. Companies are afraid to give them orders anymore. The law is in the fridge, but it is completely unclear for people what the Secretary of State means by that. What's he gonna do in the next few days? There's no more VAR. He's not gonna enforce the law. What's gonna happen? I'd like to be clear about that from the cabinet. During an interruption, I said a few words about increasing inequalities, including in the areas of care, employment in care and access to care. I am also concerned about the increase in the health disadvantage of people in the lower socio-economic groups. Here too, we have seen far too little of this cabinet. Finally, I would like to say a few words about sustainability, investment in sustainability and the very great task ahead of us. We are not reassured. The 2016 National Energy Exploratory report reports that the average label B target for housing corporations is unlikely to be achieved by 2020, although this was the intention. Energy savings in the housing market therefore require the necessary attention and investment in 2017, but in the Macro Economic Recognition we see that investments in homes and companies are going to fall. Our main concern is that this will be at the expense of green investments that are so incredibly necessary to achieve the necessary energy transition. Do we not miss the big win-wins of the climate issue in this way? After all, this not only solves the climate problem, but also ensures the citizens' wallet and the competitiveness of businesses by reducing their energy costs. We are also creating jobs, because if we are finally moving ahead and tackling this great task, it will also offer an enormous opportunity for the installation and construction industry. However, we see mainly stagnation. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? What is it going to do to address this problem? Our group in the House of Representatives has put forward a proposal in its climate budget to increase the energy tax of large consumers. They pay 200 times less energy tax than small consumers. What is the Cabinet going to do in this respect? Look at the pension funds, too. There are huge opportunities when the green money contained in it is invested in that energy transition. The Netherlands should show ambition in this respect. What will the Cabinet do to make it easier and more attractive to invest pension capital in sustainable and green destinations? Is the government prepared to create investment opportunities in connection with the energy transition together with pension funds and perhaps also with DNB? Is it prepared to look together with pension funds at the question of how to draw up a code of conduct that promotes the greening of the investment portfolio? I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet. I would also like to look at the entire climate policy of the cabinet. Despite Donald Trump, of course, it has been established in Marrakesh that we can't go back. This is the task for the coming period. We will and must implement that Paris agreement. It's not even a 2°C drop. If we really want to keep this earth liveable, then we need another 1.5°C drop. But there's still so much to be done. We also know that we are not even at risk here, in Europe or in the Netherlands; they are being run by the people in the vulnerable countries where there is no money to increase dikes to fight those floods and where the drought is going to occur and food production is going to go down. In those countries, people are really going to risk their lives. The energy agreement contains a number of very good things, which we welcome. We also think that Henk Kamp fights incredibly for those windmills at sea; that is also what I want to say here. We agree with that, but in the end it is not enough, because we are simply not going to make it in terms of energy saving. There is insufficient transition to renewable energy. In short, what more will the cabinet do? Why do we not see the ambition in this Millions Note in this area? Why do we not see that the cabinet is taking the opportunities that this transition offers for our jobs and for our economy? Why has the cabinet come to a bit of a standstill on this urgent issue? What is it going to do to actually comply with the verdict in the Urgenda case? What's it gonna do after 2023, when the energy agreement is done? We haven't seen that yet. Then there's so much to be done. Business almost begs the cabinet: let us be clear; let us see where we stand! It is not for nothing that the business community supports the initiative of the GroenLinks Climate Act and the Labour Party in the Lower House. I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet. We still have concerns in the area of nature and the environment. Let me start by investing in nature; we can't find them anywhere. There are no additional investments, while the policy of a former Rutte cabinet with Secretary of State Bleker still leaves its mark. Take the threat of grazing birds in the Netherlands. Those meadowbirds are just supposed to be here. Why didn't the cabinet choose to spend a small part of its investment money on nature? GroenLinks made 100 million available for this in its counter-budget, including in order to make a good and robust grazing programme, but the cabinet shifts this mainly to the future. Take also the approach to car traffic. There is also a great deal to be gained from climate change. There is still a great deal of air pollution, but I would like to mention it in the earlier Autobrief Act; my group has not, moreover, given its support for this, the support of clean cars and environmental organisations is being reduced. The ANWB also warns that exports of clean cars abroad are on the increase, while we have had a reasonable incentive programme so far and quite a few clean cars on the road. In short, the profits we have made will also be lost. I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. I'm coming to a closure. What bridges has the government of VVD and Labour Party struck with PvdA Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem with this financial policy? That is the question that lies ahead of this last million note from the cabinet. There is, of course, the minus and the plus of the budget and a number of things have been settled financially, but the division in society and income inequality have increased. Green investments, which are needed in homes and businesses, are falling and employment seems to stagnate in the coming year. There is a shortage of social housing and there are far too high rents. Care is less accessible and socio-economic health inequalities have grown. The Netherlands has almost been the last to emerge from the crisis and many opportunities have been missed due to too rigid cuts. As far as we are concerned, this is reflected in the fact that the European Commission is now saying that the Netherlands needs to invest more. That road should have been taken a long time ago as far as we are concerned. The bridge between the Labour Party and the VVD has indeed lasted four years, but the bridge in society has not been built. In that respect, too, this Millions note is a missed opportunity. We would like to await an answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget of this cabinet in missionary state and that is a memorable fact. Fortunately, it is a budget that shows a tilting moment after years of crisis and austerity. I'll start with the blessings. The recovery of the Dutch economy is now really taking place and my group is grateful for that. The Millions Note and Macro Economic Recognition show favourable economic prospects with expected growth of 1.7% in 2016 and 2017. Confidence among entrepreneurs and consumers is increasing, unemployment is moving to the lowest point in this cabinet period and for the first time since the crisis is falling again among young people and 45-plussers. The housing market is attracting a lot, household consumption is growing and investment is increasing. The general government deficit is falling and so is government debt as a percentage of GDP. In doing so, the economic recovery is linked much more than previous years to the growth of the domestic market and less to an increase in our exports. Last week, the CBS reported that economic growth has increased by 0.7% three quarters in a row, making the Princess Day estimate already obsolete in a positive sense. Those are the blessings, but I'll be right on the back of the story. The fact that the cabinet seems to be singing out the full political journey of more than four years has, despite all the turbulence, brought stability. That is quite apart from the policy on which we are about to discuss it. A compliment is in order here. However, a high price has been paid for the economic recovery. Many Dutch people lost their jobs, many Dutch people felt the crisis in their wallets and many Dutch people saw that their house was flooded. School leavers were faced with high youth unemployment. My group very much hopes that this generation of young people will soon be able to escape this negative streak and that they too will share in the economic recovery. This year, for the first time since the crisis, unemployment among young people has fallen to just under 11%, but it is still twice as high as among the age groups above it. Moreover, more than anyone, young people have to do with the continuing flexibilisation of the labour market. What are the Minister's expectations regarding the opportunities and prospects of the youngest generation of Dutch people? Especially in the first half of the cabinet period, there has been strong reform by the cabinet, especially with regard to long-term care, the AOW, the housing market and to a lesser extent with regard to the labour market. That was necessary, too. In particular, the increase in the age of AOW and the lower growth in healthcare expenditure mean that public finances and thus our collective arrangements under the CPB are, for the first time, resistant to ageing. And with that, for the first time, our children have for the first time, apart from all the uncertainties in the world around us, a view of comparable care, social security and education, without having to pay more taxes than we are doing now. So when it comes to public finances, we are no longer on our children's shoulders, on the shoulders of the future generation. When this cabinet arrived, it was different. At the same time, the sustainability of public finances is a somewhat limited perspective. What about the degradation of creation, climate change, international threats? All this directly affects the interests of future generations. And what about these other collective and institutional arrangements, which have not been reformed by this cabinet, although this was and is urgently necessary? Looking back on the past year, my group gets the gnawing feeling that too much has remained and is being moved to another cabinet. This gnawing feeling has to do with three major and urgent issues: the revision of the second pillar of our pension system, a genuinely thought-out policy forzzp'ers and the reform of our tax system. The facts here are insufficient. Cleaning up the tax "clutter" which the Secretary of State spoke about so ambitiously shortly after his arrival has not been successful. The pension system has only been adjusted incrementally, the tax reform has not been carried out and the policy of abolishing the VAR has failed. My group predicted this imminent failure last year in the treatment of the Tax Plan and in the treatment of the DBA Act at the beginning of this year. Last week, the cabinet decided to transfer the enforcement of the DBA Act to the next cabinet. The speedy disappearance of the support of employers and employees was certainly a factor in this decision. This delay will dampen the unrest amongzzp'ers and their clients in the coming year, but the uncertainty remains. That's a bad thing. Mr Rinnooy Kan spoke similar words. We will be discussing the 2017 Tax Plan in detail next month, but in this main financial debate I would like to point out that my group is deeply concerned about our current tax system. Only the gap between owner and tenant in the free sector has narrowed this cabinet period a bit, but the differences in tax relations between young and old and between employee and zzpüper have remained. Last but not least, the gap between one and two earners has been further deepened by government policy during this cabinet period. With a household income of €40,000, the difference in tax burden in 2009 was not yet a factor 2 and when this cabinet took office more than a factor 2, we are now approaching the factor 6. The fact that this difference has grown so much during this cabinet period does not only mean that it is not even primary! This is because of the reduction in the portability of the general tax rebate, as the Minister writes in his answers to my group's questions, but with three other fiscal measures. Firstly, this cabinet has doubled the labour cut, secondly, the income-dependent combination discount has been greatly increased and thirdly, it has de facto abolished the general tax cut by making it dependent on income and reducing it to zero. This leads to an absurdly high marginal pressure for, in particular, earners on the path from a low to a modal income. Due to the very instrumental handling of our tax system when it comes to promoting the participation of the least-earning partner, any relationship and thus any justice is gradually lost. And I hurry to say that this justice extends beyond the discussion of one- and two-earners. If we look at just how many different groups are taxed with an equal gross income, then we can only conclude that a significant reset of our tax system is necessary. We will continue this debate in greater detail in the discussion of the 2017 Tax Plan. But in today's debate, in which we also look back on the financial cabinet policy, a thorough reflection of the two rulers is certainly desirable. I have one more fiscal point. Last year the cabinet handed out a fiscal gift to mainly two-earning Netherlands. That's what's been going on. Our group has been critical of this, not because, after many burdens, we did not give our people any relief, but because it should have been accompanied by a reform of the system. After all, it takes a lot of bribes and bribes. Anyway, it became a fiscal gift of 5 billion, which should lead to 35,000 jobs and a spending impulse. That spending impulse was disappointing, by the way, given what our national mathematicians write on page 16. They argue that the relatively rapid growth in disposable income in 2016 has mainly led to savings rather than additional consumption. This makes it clear that the economy had grown relatively fast even without a fiscal gift of 5 billion in 2016. Do the rulers share this analysis? As the economy grows harder than anticipated, tax revenues are likely to be higher this year and next year than was thought at the time of the Princess Day estimates. In any case, the content and the whole process of reducing the burden of last year is still not very good for my group, as you can see, Mr President. No measure to add justice that would lead to less than that famous 35,000 model jobs in the long term was acceptable to the cabinet. And this year, without a cock crow, in the context of purchasing power recovery, measures are being taken which, according to the CPB's accounts, lead to the loss of 21,000 jobs on paper. That's far from consistent, isn't it? Do not misunderstand me, my group supports the measures aimed at restoring purchasing power, but it makes things even more difficult last year. And it wasn't about small beer anyway. The Dutch economic recovery is there, but it is in a context of great international uncertainty. The Millions note "Let me underline Brexit, migratory flows, terrorist attacks, geopolitical tensions, shocks in energy prices and the development of the Chinese economy outline a context of uncertainty and risks that are fully affecting financial and economic policy. It is remarkable that Greece, which for years provided this list of financial and economic risk factors and dominated the General Financial Reviews in this house for just as many years, has now disappeared a bit to the margins of the debate. That can have many causes. How does the Minister, also in his role as President of the Eurogroup, appreciate the current economic situation in Greece? What is his assessment of the policy initiated in relation to financial support? What is his view on the sustainability of Greek debt? How does he judge the call for partial remission? All this also affects the euro project. How does the Minister assess the sustainability of the current euro in the longer term? What is his response to the recent prediction by former EU Commissioner Bolkestein, who gives the currency union no more than 10 years? It is also remarkable how volatile the list of risk factors is. At the moment, the financial world is speculating on the consequences of Donald Trump joining as the new President of the United States. There seems to be a new era of protectionism. Yesterday Trump wiped TTP rücksichtslos off the table in his video message to the American people. American economists have already renamed Trump "inflation president" in view of its policy mix of higher public spending, lower taxation, stricter immigration policy and protection of the home market. Can the Minister share his assessment of the impact of the President's change on the financial sector as such? Can he also say what financial and economic effects he provides for the Netherlands? It is clear that this new president will elect the European NATO partners firmly on his own defence efforts. With this observation, I have come to the next issue for the Christian Union Group: concern for the public, classical public administration. Let me start with a positive remark: after years of tight and crunchy government organisations, the 2017 budget invests extra mainly in Security and Justice, namely 450 million, and 300 million in Defence. Now that the economic situation is improving and there is more financial scope, these investments reinforce the view that the traditional public administration in this cabinet was more of a residual post than a main post. I know that the Rutte 1 cabinet has given the greatest blow to our army, but this cabinet is there despite constant pressure from our group, including the Kuiper c.s. It has failed to bring our Defence Organization back to the pre-Rutte era. On the contrary, we are still hearing daily about the consequences of the heavy cuts in the defence sector. In our uncertain world, a cabinet has to stand up for our police, judiciary and the army, also in financial terms. After all, it is the res publica, the public case. Does the Minister consider that the government could have done more in the financial sense to allow the classical public service to function properly? One last year of government gives rise to additional reflection. The Minister of Finance has had to pursue policies in difficult years of crisis. An army of economists and financial specialists looked over his shoulder. They did a lot of rounds in the debate today. Advantages and opponents of additional public investment or, in particular, of additional austerity provided him with advice, but mostly unsolicited. What lessons did the Minister, looking back, learn himself? These are, we believe, moments in our policy history where the right lessons from a crisis can make the difference. My group is very interested in this. There are new questions. Has our economic system become demonstrably more sustainable? Has our financial system become more resilient to external shocks? Has culture improved significantly in the financial sector? Do bonuses that drive short-term profits really play a lesser role? Does this sector have the public interest back on the retina? Those are the essential questions. The answers to these questions determine whether we are making the transition to a sustainable financial sector. Mr Postema has already mentioned this. Can the Minister share his opinion on these points with the Chamber? What lessons, as my group asks, has he learned from the crisis as a responsible leader in relation to the pursuit of the financial sector? Attracting the labour market receives broad attention in the Netherlands. And rightly so. Since the end of the third quarter of last year, a small 140,000 jobs have been created and unemployment has fallen by almost 65 000. These are encouraging figures, but there are also shadowy sides. Many of these new jobs are flexible and temporary jobs, particularly at the bottom of the labour market and for young people. There is, above all, more temporary work. The growth of flexible work is greater than in other European countries. Last week, the CPB published a report showing that the increase in flexible employment contracts is concentrated strongly on lower-skilled workers. The CPB estimates the risk of unemployment and poverty for workers on a flexible contract three times as high as for permanent workers. This is a worrying development which leads to a social division of winners and losers in the labour market. Does the Minister recognize this division? And if so, does he share the concern of the Christian Union Group? How does he see the solution direction? But the analysis needs to go deeper. In recent years, tens of thousands of jobs have disappeared in the financial sector, a sector with which the Minister has specific involvement. ABN AMRO and Rabobank recently announced a further significant reduction in their workforce. Banks and insurance companies have rapidly automated the work of their traditional middle management. The end of that is far from being in sight. The disappearance of middle management within many labour organisations leads to major social impacts. Technology takes over routine jobs and the orbit polarization is growing. It means that the middle class, which traditionally is the backbone of society, is shrinking. Its share of employment is declining. America is a terrifying example of this; read the book entitled Average is left by American economist Tyler Cowen. Now I know that job destruction and job creation are of all times, but here seems to be a silent revolution that will have great social consequences. The doom statue rises from a dying middle class, a class with little perspective, with blocked opportunities. A pessimistic class, who no longer thinks in terms of "rising expectations" but feels pushed away by the fear of falling. I would like to ask the Minister, a legitimate Social Democrat, if he recognizes this image and the concerns. I am now making the point for the financial and administrative sector, but I can also make it broader.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u5	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u6	Excuse me, Mr De Grave, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u7	Thank you, Madam President. It may surprise Mr Ester because he appeals to the Minister as a Social Democrat, but I fully share his analysis, so it is also polite to liberals. In fact, I kept a similar story in the group not long ago, and I also linked it to the stability of democracy and the importance of the middle class for it. You can also get great inspiration from the book on Cicero's life, if you want to go back a little further, and the loss of the Roman Republic. Analysis is one thing, but perhaps Mr Ester can also say something about what you should do about it. It is often very difficult to fight against the developments he outlines, such as the loss of many jobs in the banking sector. What should society oppose when it comes to strengthening the middle class? What are Mr Ester's ideas on this? We share the analysis, but maybe we can also come across each other in terms of the solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u8	Of course, there is a lot of writing and thinking about it. I am glad that Mr De Grave shares that analysis. When I talk from now on about a 'justified social democrat', I can also mention the right-wing liberals. It is a very serious matter and I am glad that my group shares that view. Above all, we must first agree on the analysis and not just answer the question. We need to get this high on the agenda and then we'll look further. It's not that simple. The Minister also spoke about technology taking over routine labour. That is a development that you can do very little about. You can make sure that the middle-level skills set is in order throughout the professional career and that jobs that can be taken over much less easily by robotisation or by technology are also eligible, because they are trained and have skills and competences. That seems to me to be the most important solution, but I am glad that Mr De Grave shares my analysis, because I am very concerned about this, and many others with me, also with regard to the social and psychological effects he rightly pointed out. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. After this high level, I have to go back to a lower level, if you don't mind. As an afterburner, one last matter. The bill on the abolition of monument deductions and training deductions will not reach the First Chamber in the short term. That reassures me, because, apart from the content, it was not a piece of careful legislation. Moreover, it was a sin against the first budget rule of this cabinet, which means that revenue and expenditure are separate. This burden increase would be used to a substantial extent to close a financial gap of around €130 million to OCW. My very simple question to the Minister is: how is he going to close this gap in the 2017 budget? I hope that the necessary money will not be taken away from monuments and education jars, because the cabinet would have picked up these deductions by chance. I'm closing up. My group wishes the Minister and his Secretary of State God's blessing at a time when decisive financial and fiscal leadership is still required. We thank the two rulers for the exchanges of views in this house in recent years and look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u9	Madam President. May I begin with a few words of compassion towards the Minister? I was just thinking about it. While most of the Netherlands was celebrating holidays, the Minister was preparing the Millions Note. That sounds like a terrible job to me, but everyone's business. And it has to be said: the enthusiasm sprang from it. If you listen carefully while reading, you hear here and there cheering, for example about the state debt. It is 63% now and will go down to 62% next year. That is good, but is 1% a year enough or does the Minister of Finance have even greater ambitions? Another cheer I hear from the government deficit. This has decreased from 5% of gross domestic product during the crisis to 0.5% next year. That's beautiful. Another important figure is the reduction in unemployment to 6.2%. In the meantime, it seems that it has already fallen further. Good. I understand the Cabinet is pleased with this. So is my group. Every improvement has been taken. In that sense it is also good to look back. After all, this cabinet came in very heavy weather. Tough decisions had to be made, from a position where majorities in both Chambers were not taken for granted. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also realised this at the time. This has led to agreements that have been supported by the groups of the SGP in the Second and First Chambers. This was the case in the previous period, before this Chamber took office, so my predecessor, Mr Holdijk, took responsibility for it at the time. All the more surprising was the fact that last year the SGP voted against the Tax Plan. That was not entirely unique, because Mr Holdijk has done so on occasion, but that was a long time ago. Last year, our vote against was the result of the fact that there was 5 billion to be distributed, but that, in my group's opinion, this distribution was unfair, especially for the single-earners, who, through the measures, paid up to five times as much tax. Mr Ester mentioned it earlier. In the motion I tabled at the time, the government was asked to reduce the gap between one and two earners. I note that this has not happened. The question is why the government has not only ignored this motion, but has even allowed the gap to deepen even further, sometimes up to six times as much tax. In fact, this undermines the freedom of choice of citizens, which is a very liberal principle. This question is all the more pressing when Minister Dijsselbloem writes in the foreword of the Millions Note, and I quote: "In recent years, the cabinet has directed the recovery of the economy with policies based on three pillars: orderly, fair sharing and reform of public finances in order to restore growth in the economy." Perhaps the Minister or Secretary of State can respond to the following in the context of fair sharing. At the General Political Reviews on 1 November, I again tabled a motion, this time with even more support than last year's motion. This motion was about the fact that the participation of certain groups is hampered by removing the incentive that is always used. After all, the government is focusing on financial incentives to increase people's participation in the labour market. However, thanks to Secretary of State Wiebes, who provided the figures, it appears that there are groups that of €10,000 gross additional salary after tax, surcharges and deductions only have €355. That's say and write €1 per day. This applies not only to earners, but also to single and two-earners, according to the Secretary of State. I think it was logical for my motion to receive broad support. I hope that the three parties who did not support the motion, namely VVD, Labour Party and D66, found this strange and that with me they find the accumulation of rules and laws disproportionate. That'd be a profit by now. I also have a few more general questions for the Minister. Does he agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that this accumulation does indeed lead to undesirable effects? Does the government also see that this is a wider problem than just for the single earner? Following an interruption from me, Mr Postema indicated that he did not want to repeat the debate of the General Political Reviews. He has a point, but an important fact demands that it be re-appointed. In fact, compliments for the speed of research have been announced on this point. This will be done by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. Why this ministry anyway? What will be the thrust of this investigation and what will it lead to? What are the research questions? Various solutions are explored in the study and presented as possible policy options. Are there perhaps options that are already excluded in advance, for example because they do not fit within the framework of the current cabinet? And at what time can this Chamber look forward to the results of this investigation? As far as the single-earner is concerned, it is very positive that the single-earner who is caring for a chronically ill or disabled partner or child will receive a benefit. 50 million has been earmarked for this, at the request of the Christian Union. We are talking about a small group, but it has happened; we pay tribute to it. So it appears that there is an eye for certain groups. This is also evident, for example, from the way in which the cabinet now acts on the DBA Act. Will the Secretary of State continue to monitor whether postponement until 1 January 2018 is sufficient? At what point will he clarify this, so that the uncertainty that has gradually grown is not going to last too long? I would like to raise another aspect, namely the purchasing power story. I would like to congratulate the government on its strong commitment to give all the groups, I repeat, an increase in purchasing power. However, some groups only get a very small plus. That plus is so small that it can be destroyed quickly. Think about the care premiums. The Millions note assumed an increase of €3.50. The first health insurance company to announce the premium increase, DSW, came with €10 increase. The other health insurance companies had until 19 November to publish their premiums. They're known by now, and they're disappointing. Does the Minister of Finance now have any idea of the consequences of this increase? Can he indicate what this means for the purchasing power plates? Is it possible to see whether everyone will actually improve on it now? There is much more to be said about the Millions note, just as there is about the Defence budget. We remain extremely concerned about this. 300 million structuralally is nice, but is that enough? What does the Finance Minister think of the Netherlands being far below NATO standards, with 1.17% instead of 2% of gross domestic product? I have already mentioned this with Mr Van Kesteren and with Mr De Grave. To make that even more concrete, if we had to increase from 1.17% to 2%, we would have to grow from 8.6 billion to 14 billion. Mr De Grave introduced the EU standard, which apparently paid back at the VVD Congress. He valued it from his head at 1.43%. This standard would also mean that 2.5 billion would have to be added. Those are huge amounts of money. A lot of parties have indicated this morning and this afternoon that they are seriously concerned about defence. As far as I am concerned, the next question is crucial. Does the government actually agree with the 2% NATO standard? What is the government's long-term vision? How long does the government think it will take to get to the right level? Similar questions can be asked about the funds for the fight against terrorism and the search for security in our own country. There is a structural 450 million for this, of which 200 million for the national police, for district agents. That's good, but is that enough? Are there any real calculations of the funds needed for this in the future? I'm rounding up. I note that the government has pursued three objectives in the fight against the crisis. That was a tough fight. There's been a lot of success. Getting public finances in order: we are in good shape. Reforming the economy in order to restore growth: the figures show that this is going well. Share honestly: that should be even better. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats hopes that there will be a trend break in the fair distribution of taxes, deductions and surcharges. The answers to the questions I have asked, including in this area, are crucial to the approach of the SGP, of course today, but also to the handling of the Tax Plan in a few weeks' time. That is why I look forward with particular interest to the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u10	Madam President. It's possible. Reductions on pensions have been threatening for months and leave millions of workers and pensioners in great uncertainty. At the General Political Reviews on 1 November, CDA and 50PLUS asked the Prime Minister to clarify discounts. He wouldn't give it to me. On Friday morning 18 November last week, the Dutch MP of 50PLUS, Henk Krol, submitted an initiative-law draft to make that clear. On the same afternoon, Mrs Klijnsma delivered a long-awaited letter, containing the cabinet response to the quarterly report of the Dutch Bank. Mrs Klijnsma is putting forward the problem of discounts for the time being. It is, of course, anything but coincidental that this happens a few months before the elections. First, the elections, with as little as possible or no discounts, and then we move on after the elections. The rules aren't changed. If shorts are really inevitable, the election knot will be cut. We'll extend the recovery period by one or two years. Then we lift the problem over the elections and after us the flood. What can count on some sympathy is the parallel proposal to increase premiums. The fact that the premiums have not been covering costs for years and that every year many billions, 10 billion a year, are being taken out of the pots of pensioners and sleepers to fill the shortages of the active, seems to have finally reached the cabinet. But I am sorry for Secretary of State Klijnsma: an increase of 6% is too little. An average discount rate of 1% includes a premium which also includes 1%. If that were to be done, the premiums would have to be increased by many tens of percent. This shows how absurd the new ftk is working out. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u11	What does Mr Van Rooijen mean by "the shortages of the active"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u12	We have received a calculation from the Ministry of Social Affairs, from 26 October last year. These contributions must be paid for the purpose of building up the new liabilities of that year, with an accounting rate of 1%. The gap between 3% and 4% is 10 billion a year. Over the next six or seven years, that will amount to 70 billion. Those are numbers from the Department of Social Affairs. They're not from my pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u13	What's the verdict on that shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u14	It's very simple. There are two solutions. It's about consistency. If the expected return is used for the premiums from 4% to 5%, then you also use it for the liabilities. And then it goes down hugely, and then the coverage goes up. Then there are no discounts and then there can be indexed. Then we'll find each other very quickly. Then the other side. If you have to calculate the liabilities for the new structure and the liabilities already accumulated and continue to calculate them at 1%, the risk-free interest rate, then of course you have to do the same for the premiums. We are aware that the Dutch Bank has also strongly advocated this. The salient thing is, and this is not so common, that the cabinet has ignored DNB's urgent advice on this point. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u15	It is very difficult to follow, especially because of the varying loyalty of Mr Van Rooijen and his party when it comes to what DNB has put forward on this file. Does he now consider that there is a shortage among the active, or does he leave it to others?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u16	Mr Postema did not listen to me very well. It's not my fault he doesn't understand. I am merely quoting figures from Social Affairs, namely that there are 10 billion underpaid contributions. Social Affairs says that this is because the calculation of premiums is based on a different, much higher, interest rate than on the liabilities. That's all I said. Whatever isn't mine that's coming from DNB and it says in the pieces "DNB mordicus" is that DNB was against this weave error. I'm moving on. Henk Krol has therefore submitted an initiative draft to Room 34606, nice to remember from now on that the problem of discounts is a structural one by introducing a soil as long as the ECB pursues its monetary enlargement policy. The aim of the initiative is to put an end to uncertainty about the threat of reductions in pensions and thus contribute to the much-needed restoration of confidence in our beautiful pension system, the best in the world. However, the aim is also to decouple pension funds' policies with a 60-year horizon from ECB policy aimed at saving the euro. The proposal of 50PLUS aims to avoid the negative effects of the ECB's enlargement policy for the pension sector in the coming years, not only next year, by laying down a modest base of 2% in the discount rate for liabilities. In particular, it is important to avoid reductions in pension entitlements, workers' pensions and benefits, and possibly to allow indexing. Contrary to the cabinet's possible proposal to extend the recovery period by one or two years for 2017, the proposal of 50PLUS aims to avoid reductions that would be caused by occasional policies of the ECB in the coming years. This is also necessary in particular for the year 2021. This is the year in which, unexpectedly, a large and unconditional discount should be applied if the pension fund coverage rate is five years below 105% by 2020. It's in the law. That's the automatic discount pilot of the financial review framework. Last year I mentioned that ftk: financial future ruined. I would point out that a return of 1.5% is sufficient to meet all pension obligations. This is demonstrated by calculations by Stichting Hoogovens Pensioenfonds and Stichting Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn. About the same percentage applies to ABP. The large funds make up the last five years, as has just become clear, on average 8% to 10%, including the bad year 2015. This year the rate of return over the first nine months has been on average 9%, and already higher today. What the hell is this debate about threatening discounts about? That's what I'm asking. Back to the possible disaster years 2020 and 2021, if interest rates were to remain low. For example, if the coverage rate was 90% by 2020, the difference between 90% and 105% should be reduced all at once, unconditionally, although the 15% discount may be spread over ten years. So you're gonna get a blow to the head, but you're gonna get Band-Aids for ten years. You'll lose the entire 15% of your pension permanently. So that's what pensioners and workers already know. Why am I talking about threatening pension reductions? The newspapers said that Donald Trump might be saving Dutch pensions. That equals how bizarre our system is. Trump as the anti-Draghi, because interest is shooting up. If someone in America screams, not the first, by the way, then our pension funds suddenly look much better. Of course, that's bullshit. We must solve the problems ourselves in our own country. And we are doing so by clearly setting a limit to the scope of current policies. Hence SOPLUS' proposal, as a first step. As a second step, we need to look at the impact on investment of the current government policy. It is too crazy for words that Mrs Klijnsma's rules do not even dare to invest anymore. See the article in Het Financieele Dagblad of 14 November, in which director René van de Kieft van MN, one of the largest pension investors in the Netherlands, indicates that his money will only be held in cash. Because he really shouldn't invest and he finds bonds, prescribed by DNB, far too risky. In my view, that is justified. I think this affects the pension interests of millions of people that everyone is looking away from. Talk about a divide between politics and citizens. I now come to the 10 billion underpaid pension contributions and the 15 billion difference between the gross and net contribution income of the AOW. First, the pension contributions. According to figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs of 26 October 2015, 10 billion too little pension contribution is paid from 2015 onwards, starting from the ftk. The reason for this is the inconsistency between the calculation of pension contributions for liabilities, which is calculated on the basis of the expected rate of return of 4% to 5% today, and the calculation of liabilities, where I said it should be counted as a risk-free rate of 1% today. It is not mandatory, but most funds obviously make use of the expected return, because this leads to lower premiums. Can the Minister explain why and how this inconsistency came about in the law? I would like to ask the Minister whether he was perhaps the one who ultimately did not want the lower market interest rate to be applied to pension contributions as well. This would have led to a huge increase in contributions, including for ABP. You can see the link: the State is not a legislator here but an employer. Can the Minister explain why an expected return has not been chosen for both the calculation of premiums and the calculation of liabilities? Then there is consistency. The consequences of the muffled premium are enormous. That's a very strange term, by the way, but that's what it says. Every year, 10 billion are underpaid by the workers: 25 billion instead of 35 billion. That's 30% too little premium. For the period from 2015 to 2021, according to the Social Affairs Survey, the premium is 65 billion too low. This low pension premium of 65 billion over the next six years is not being invested, because it is not there, but it would yield another 40% in 45 years and 60 years. That is the famous retirement wisdom, and also the reality, that a pension premium leads to a pension paid under the 20/40/40 rule. This is enough about pensions, I think. I move on to a completely different chapter: the financing of the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u17	This was very thorough. I do not know if I agree with everything, but at least Mr Van Rooijen has done his homework very well and made his point. That also meets my call for discussions on the basis of facts. One point has not been mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen, namely the issue of age, the fact that people are getting older. There are facts about that, too. It is also an important part of this debate. Some comments were made by a colleague of Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS. I would like to know what he thinks about this and whether he thinks that those statements that the figures are wrong have contributed to a good, careful debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u18	I think that Mr De Grave and I are in complete agreement on what he and I have said so far. In short, my answer is as follows. I have, of course, followed this, and I understand that Mrs Van Brenk said that the last figure indicates that life expectancy has fallen slightly. I would like to leave it at that. I think that it is also well known that life expectancy has risen, but I would like to point out that we are going back to the facts that I am still intrigued by OECD reports. I do not know exactly when they are, but there are very recent OECD estimates which state that a certain extrapolation of further increases in life expectancy should be looked at with some caution, because there are indications that rapid growth in life expectancy may be reduced in recent years. This may mean that longer-term estimates might have to be adjusted. But of course that's something to dive deeper into.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u19	With all these nuances, I can live fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u20	The 50PLUS Group has asked written questions about the financing of the AOW. The Minister replied in detail and I am grateful to him for that. I'll summarize his answers. The AOW contribution is 24 billion. In the case of an AOW issue of 38 billion, there is a deficit of 14 billion, which the Minister of Finance is making very spicy adjustments through the State contribution and another deposit. The gross AOW contribution yield is 41 billion, which is 17-15-17. However, due to the system of tax reductions, net revenue is 26 billion, the Minister says. So that's 15 billion lower. The same contribution income for the AOW could be achieved with an AOW contribution rate of 11.4 instead of the current rate of 18. The effective AOW rate for single workers is as follows according to the Minister's overview. With an income of up to €20,000, the effective AOW premium is 5% and at €30,000 it is 10%. The answer to our questions on the level of the actual contribution to the ABP thus shows a difference of 15 billion between gross and net AOW income, because since 2001 the AOW contribution has been calculated on the income net of all tax reductions, which, moreover, have been generated since then. Mr Ester also referred to the increase in the employment discount, which has tripled. The General Court of Auditors has always been helpful; I think that together we can also be pleased, Mr De Grave, in a report a number of years ago, pointed out the major consequences of the deduction of the tax rebates for the determination of the amount of the AOW premium. It is cynical to note that it was just after 2010 that the report came out, I think the flywheel of the rising tax rebates started to spin. My question to the Minister is whether there is an implicit, hidden, The policy agreement or policy approach is that reductions, in particular the employment discount and the IACK, are always increased for workers. As a result, not only do they pay much less tax, but there is also an increasing difference between the gross and net premiums. Let me be clear: we do not think that workers should now pay more AOW premiums. But the result of the net premium system is that the 15 billion had to come out of the taxes and should continue to come out. That conscious pro-active policy is being pursued by this cabinet unhappily. It is dictated by the blind and decisive argument of employment and peak hours for workers. "Spitsuur" is the magic word of the director of the Central Planning Bureau. I call it because I think it's a beautiful image. The Cabinet likes to take over this mantra and the Secretary of State loves it. He also has his own mantra: income tax must become more a life-cycle tax; workers must pay less, even less, tax, because they have higher costs and older people can pay more tax because they have less costs. Wouldn't have, I'd say. So far, he has succeeded with this policy of fiscal age discrimination. But where does the law say that we have a tax on labour? That's not in the law. The law states that there is an income tax on income from labour and past labour. That's in one sentence. No distinction is therefore made. There is actually a political fiction here, namely that there would be a tax on labour. You can lower it, but you can't lower the tax on former labor. At the same time, as mentioned above, the net AOW premium of 5% or up to 12% pays an increasing proportion of the AOW expenditure from taxes, which also means that the AOW, the pensioners, contribute to their own AOW. This is the so-called indirect fiscalisation of the AOW, which has been going on for years. Can the Minister respond to my claim that the indirect fiscalisation of the AOW is a welcome and fine by-catch of the net AOW premium system, which also means that the elderly have to pay for their own AOW and are thus the loser? Especially the labor discounts and the IACK are the two rotary discs, the buttons that can be turned to random and also turned. I would point out that the elderly are only entitled to a half-employment discount and half a self-employment allowance, even if they are still working, which is what everyone wants. I've never seen a good basis for that. Older people receive half a general tax discount. Older people are therefore second-class citizens with half tax rights. They do have full tax obligations in the event of increases in charges such as the VAT increase and the discriminatory Wul tax of 4% in 2013. Then there's the levelling down of the discounts. The House of Representatives, thanks to Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union, has done an excellent job on this subject by increasing the burden of 6 billion to the detriment of the middle groups. There has been a tax redistribution in which no one can see the forest through the trees, with a secondary marginal pressure due to the phasing-out and expiry of tax rebates and a tertiary marginal pressure due to the phasing-out and expiry of care and rent allowances. What is even worse is that the necessary first step towards reforming, among other things, income tax has been cut. The income tax has become very sick and has become a handing out Christmas tree which completely succumbs to, among other things, the leveling, but also to the sintering class circus of the tax extensions of nearly 20 billion, which is 2.5% of the gross national product. In the period from 2000 to 2015, according to the CBS, I have again kept to the facts: the purchasing power of workers has increased by 30% and the purchasing power of pensioners has remained the same. These figures also show that the purchasing power of pensioners has fallen by 8% since 2009. So he went up a bit, but then he fell back to the old level. I come to fiscal policy. I will start with the Krol amendment on the one-off reduction of the old-age discount from €1,292 to €71. Above an income of €36.057, the discount drops suddenly by €1.221. The coverage of the amendment was found by increasing the employment discount not by €120, but by €81. The aim of the amendment was to avoid the insane consequences of the absence of gradual phasing-out. A person with an income of one euro above €36.057 is therefore declining by more than €1,200. This leads to shamefully high marginal percentages. These marginal percentages are for people with a small income above that amount, up to €5,000, as follows: 160% if you have €1,000 more than that limit and 64% if you have €5,000 more than that limit. These are tariffs for the Guinness Book of Records. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about that. The House of Representatives rejected the amendment and the Secretary of State had advised against it. I come to the purchasing power repair of 1 billion for the elderly in 2017, the all-dominant election year. Mr Ester also said that the 5 billion operation would create 35,000 jobs, especially by the IACK, but that 23 000 jobs are now lost because of the 1 billion in purchasing power repair. Can the Minister explain the logic of this sweeping policy? Older people are wary of purchasing power repairs. They also know that the parties that ignored them before the elections can do so again after the elections. Last week, the power of the cabinet had no boundaries. First there was the repeal of the draft law on revision of the courts and the monuments and training deductions and now the DBA Act is also going downhill for 1 millionzzp'ers. VNO-NCW pulled the plug from the DBA on Friday morning and the cabinet did the same a few hours later. "Well phoned" is called in cycling terms. Earlier that week, the FNV demanded the same thing. Then I'll get to the ftk. Is the cabinet prepared to withdraw the ftk or in any case suspend it in the interest of 10 million participants? And is the Cabinet prepared to evaluate the FTC now that it has been in operation for two years? After all, the evaluation of laws has become almost standard procedure. My pressing question is why the cabinet is not now proposing to extend the recovery period in 2017. This would also give 3 million elderly people the certainty now given to 1 millionzzp'ers. Of course we give thezzp'ers this peace and clarity. At least we hope there will be. Now we still need that certainty for 3 million elderly people, before Christmas. In the case of the slightest resistance, the cabinet withdraws many other proposals and even laws. It's rarely seen before. I'm rounding up. I congratulate the minister for his presidency of the eurogroup in these four difficult years, including for him personally. For the Secretary of State, I would like to repeat once again, in committee, I have said that he deserves great praise for his leadership during the Dutch Presidency on one of the most difficult fiscal dossiers. We know that the Netherlands was well protected there. However, we also have a Prime Minister: Rutte. On 15 March, we will remember how Prime Minister Rutte, in particular, struck and stripped the elderly financially. It's true that Rutte isn't dealing with himself. He's mainly dealing with the elderly, to see if they can be dealt with further. We look forward to the response of the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has begun in a difficult period, it has had to make difficult decisions, but it ends in major. The economy is growing, even as best in the euro area. Unemployment is falling: even 45-plussers and long-term unemployed are getting a slightly easier job. And public finances do not yet fully meet European standards and actually do not meet our own objective of a positive budget balance, but we are very much on the way. This success, of course, has many causes, but it has to be said that the cabinet has certainly pursued a clear policy aimed at this result. And yet... Last year I made a number of criticisms in the General Financial Reviews and I could repeat them all this time. Has the burden reduction of 5 billion from last year, which has almost gone all the way to the workers, actually brought about this improvement in employment? Or had the same result been achieved if that amount had been used in proportion to the benefit of workers, benefit-seekers and, for example, income-earners' families? Or would it even have been achieved if the debt had been further reduced? It's hard to tell. There's less to hand out this year. However, the smaller amount is distributed more fairly. On the one hand, there is a billion for necessary expenditure increases in the security and justice and care sectors, where there has been really too much savings. On the other hand, there are purchasing power injections of 1.1 billion for a few otherwise too many lagging groups. But that still doesn't solve the problems. The achievement of a balanced budget has been shifted to the next cabinet period. If we had been wiser last year, we would not have had to. The objective of a balanced budget remains important, even though Commissioner Moscovici is suddenly promoting a generous spending policy for us instead of the objectives of the Stability and Growth Pact. The objective of a balanced budget remains important to me, even though I am curious about the further discussion on whether we should not have used Keynes earlier. Our commitments in the field of defence, which is 2% of GDP, are far from being met and we cannot achieve this in one single leap either. But is there any idea of how and how we are going to achieve that 2%? And I would prefer to see that in NATO, but certainly in a coordinated EU context. The increase in purchasing power for older people, beneficiaries and households who are in a earner situation due to chronic illness does not, of course, correct the significant gap between workers and non-employed persons and two-earner situations compared with those which have been built up over the years in tax regulation. That gap doesn't get any smaller, but runs even further. That brings us to the central problem, which also took the lead in the discussion last year. This cabinet will not be able to do much about it now. However, it will be clear that, as far as my party is concerned, taxation needs to be simplified again, more emphasis should be placed on capacity and less on use for ideologically coloured policy objectives. In addition, as far as corporate taxation is concerned, we need to move towards a more equal European and preferably global playing field, with less room for competition between states at the expense of overall tax capacity. Simpler, therefore, because simplicity and comprehensibility tends to be fairer on balance than complex schemes designed to be fair, with the emphasis on capacity in the taxation of income. The fact that the surcharges are based on household income rather than on individual income shows that the assessment of capacity needs to be based on households rather than individuals. We have opted for a different system in the income tax system, and we are not just turning it back. However, with Mr Schalk and others, I urge that, at least in the current system, concessions be made to single-earner households. This can be achieved by maintaining and extending a significant and transferable general tax rebate, rather than reducing it. And then there's corporate tax. Even though the tax advisors and VNO-NCW see major problems regarding Dutch competitiveness in attracting foreign companies when the European proposals on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) would be adopted, transparency, including in the taxation of profits, is of social importance. The shadowiness with which the tax burden of large companies is calculated cannot lead to satisfaction. Country-by-country reporting, as well as a common tax base for Europe, greatly enhances transparency and, probably more than with national regulations, gives the possibility to reduce the deduction of debt capital costs at last uniformly in Europe. Too many debts cannot be phased out from one moment to the next, but tax facilitation of debt has had its time. The consolidation and distribution of profits between the countries in which a company operates is possible, but a distribution of profits through the OECD-promoted transfer pricing method does not seem to me to be an equally clear starting point either. Perhaps the Minister, or the Secretary of State, would like to reflect on the choices that need to be made in relation to this CCCTB in a European context. The government seems to me to be very reluctant. Finally, I would like to make two comments on taxation. Taxation must therefore, unlike today, be simple and work towards carrying capacity and not complicated and to achieve political goals. But where the market is unable to offset identifiable external effects in prices, charges to compensate for this are, of course, tax or otherwise socially important. In addition to the investments, they are very important to achieve sustainability. We have done too little to reduce CO emissions. And the social importance is also the justification for our levy on extreme golden handshakes that should make exorbitant farewell gifts unattractive for employers. The directors may be able to indicate to what extent this arrangement is successful and also whether they could support the idea that the remuneration structure in our country could give rise to the extension of the scheme to other rewards. I have one more point, not the easiest and actually outside the portfolios of the Minister and the Secretary of State, but of great importance in our social and economic system. The government is looking for more modern forms of individual pension building while maintaining solidarity. But the question here is whether the current system with the current pension funds has survived or is actually capable of doing its job. I think the latter is actually the case. The use of risk-free interest rates for the calculation of liabilities appears necessary, as the funds are contractually tied to fixed and indexable benefits. But that is, of course, not the reality anymore when these benefits are actually dependent on the financial position of the funds, so that for a long time it has resulted in no more indexing and here and there and possibly soon even more to reducing pension benefits. When, as in the premium provision, it is possible to count on prudently determined returns, there is no problem for most funds, however carefully the expected return is approached and therefore, indeed, also taking into account that some of the assets will fall in value when the long-term interest rate rises again. Formalising what everyone knows, that the pension fund cannot offer guarantees and then does not have to count on the unrealistic tight interest rate basket, means that there is no need to cut short, that there can even be indexed again without shorting the future. I am therefore in a position to belong to 'those parties who advocate more far-reaching measures than the one-off extension of the recovery period', to quote the letter received from the State Secretary of SZW. The government clearly does not yet choose to do so, but it seems to me that it is time for a realistic look. There are still enough problems in the area of finance and the economy that I have not mentioned here. The most important thing is the continuing division of the labour market. I think, even though this does not yet appear, that the Work and Security Act and even the DBA Act can contribute to stability in the labour market. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the future of the DBA Act. But in order for these laws to function properly, there is, of course, much more to be done, in the field of taxation, in the field of labour law, in the field of social security. This cabinet will not do much anymore, but here too I would be curious to see the thoughts of Minister or Secretary of State. I'd like to wait for an answer from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u22	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u23	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. In addition to their critical questions and comments, many of the members have also congratulated the Cabinet on its achievements in terms of the government's finances. I am grateful to the Members for that. Some Members have said that we were too much on our minds in the Millions Note. I have explicitly deleted every sentence in the various concepts that was even too positive, but I do attach great importance to the facts. If things are going better with the Netherlands we can disagree whether this is despite or thanks to our policy we may also write it down. That's not a chest beater, that's actual developments. These are good; they are even better than the CPB estimates of the summer when we made the budget. Indeed, some figures are already obsolete, as some Members said. I will come back to this in detail. I will address some of the larger issues, but I will also try to answer actual questions. A major issue is whether budgetary policy has been sensible in general and whether it has not been too harsh and too rough. Another issue is whether the euro area strategy has been sensible and whether the euro still has a future. A third major issue is the state of the financial sector, looking back on the crisis in this sector. Are we back or not at all? Having said that, there have also been many questions that are more detailed about the budget. Maybe I should go over a pile of that first. In the Millions note we have included a package of intensifications: 1.5 billion in expenditure intensifications and 1.1 billion in purchasing power measures. We recorded this before the European Commission encouraged us to spend some more money. We felt that this was necessary and did so, while we were taking the budget a step further. My point is that the Netherlands has a real interest in putting the budget in order in the meantime while looking at social needs and necessary investments. When this is done, it is important to keep it in order. Those things are not in conflict with each other, and I want to watch over them. Others have already said it today: the Netherlands remains an open and vulnerable economy. This was also apparent during the crisis when the many vulnerabilities in our economy were exposed. They were already there, but were fully exposed by the violence of the 2008 international financial crisis and later by the great uncertainty surrounding the euro crisis or debt crisis in Europe. Before I get there, I'm going back to the budget. In the package of intensifications we made a number of explicit choices: structuralally more money for V and J was needed and structuralally more money for Defence, thus increasing the Defence budget in this cabinet period to 870 million. These are all three-step intensifications. At the same time, as a result of the previous cabinet, the Ministry of Defence has had that austerity call. We're not there yet. Furthermore, we have removed an open cut in long-term care and additional resources have been made available for education, the fight against poverty and, specifically, the problem of chronically ill people, the own contribution in the WMO and the WlZ to chronically ill partners. This is a topic that came up in the discussion "It was only a part of it "About the single-earners." All in all, this is 1.5 billion. Mr De Grave raised the question as to why the expenditure framework had been adapted. He asked whether it could not have been done by further reducing expenditure. Our dilemma was that in the spring we were once again faced with a great fall in terms of exchange rates. We then pushed them back massively in the departments. The departments have had to cut back or take other measures to adapt them. This is about 1.3 billion, let me remind you. This problem has been dealt with at the same time by all departments in the spring. In the summer, the economic figures, and hence the budgetary figures, looked better than the estimates in force. We then considered that we would be able to take another step in further improving the budget, and we are way ahead of the coalition agreement in that respect, while at the same time allowing for a number of intensifications and also burden measures. It is true that, while we are putting the budget in order and making more money available for political priorities, budgetary discipline has also been maintained. This has already happened in the spring and again for a considerable amount. That is what we have done. Mr Postema had an interesting question about V and J. He said that there are cells left empty at V and J and that V and J need so much money. He asked how. That has to do with the debate in the Chamber. There is also a chamberal motion in which it is stated that the closing of prisons in addition to the already ongoing master plan we already have a major reorganisation going on at the Judicial Institutions Department is not currently at issue. We have accepted that motion. We will certainly come back to this at a later date. There is once again a great inefficiency due to empty positions. Any empty position is always necessary. If you're gonna catch a crook, you should be able to put him away. Of course, after the judge has ruled, you don't misunderstand me. There really is an issue there. At the moment we have said that the current master plan will be carried out first, because this is already accompanied by major interventions. At a later point we will come back to the demand for the capacity of the DJI. Defence expenditure has been substantially increased over the course of the cabinet period, but we do not yet meet the 2% standard. First of all, I would like to ask whether this is a harsh standard and what the nature of the obligation is. It is an agreement made at NATO to gradually work towards it in the years to come, without fixed deadlines, and at least to ensure that the defence expenditure is increased as a percentage of GDP. It is now up to the political parties to assess the pace at which this is going. I follow with interest the various election programs. If you want to get to the 2% standard, it's going to be over 6 billion, I say out of my head now. Some parties write in their election programme: in the coming period at least we will go to the EU average. But that doesn't stop, of course. GDP is not standing still and other countries are also increasing their spending. It's not quite sure how much it takes, but you're soon above 1.5 billion. However, there is still a gap. We will not be able to reach that 2% standard. All political parties are now saying in the Chambers and in the media that this 2% standard must be met, but the amounts in the electoral programmes are not yet close to that. That is not the case for any party. At the same time, there is broad support for additional defence resources. The cabinet also makes room for this step-by-step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u25	Would the Minister be willing to give us a direction? I share his analysis that there must be a huge amount of money. According to my calculations, it's 5.6 billion, so nearly 6 billion. How long does the Minister think we could do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u26	We can take a very long or very short time. It's not up to me. It's up to another cabinet. I have presented the budget for 2017, with another 300 million structuralally for the Defence Department. We may still be asked to prepare the 2018 budget. Some say there is even a small chance that we may submit them, but let us not anticipate them. This is where we stand. I cannot predict how quickly a next coalition will take steps towards this NATO standard, and how big those steps will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u27	Is that what the Secretary of Defense finished with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u28	No, I was just about to start my answer to Mr De Grave's question about the 80 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u29	Exactly. Then I'll sit here and wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u30	In 2017, a total of 400 million extra goes to the Defense Department. Mr De Grave's argument is that there is only 80 million net of this. That's not right. The basic readiness is reinforced by an amount of 197 million. In fact, 103 million is devoted to the question of terms of trade. It's all over the department, so it's all over the Department of Defense. So about 200 million really goes to the employability of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u31	I'm not going to fight the Minister. My information shows something else, but that is often also a question of definition. However, with all due respect for the commitment and efforts, that is modest, given the major problems. Is the Minister prepared to consider in the spring note to what extent there are additional possibilities in relation to the acute problem in the defence sector, which will continue to play in 2017, for example in order to compensate for the loss of 100 million exchange rates? He will not agree to that, but I would ask him if he is prepared to consider that in the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u32	I cannot do that, because the Spring paper is not the time for a mid-term review of the budget. We should be talking about the cover now. Mr De Grave himself asked: why don't you keep those spending frameworks tight? We have done so on this point, and that applies to all departments. The policy line of this cabinet is not that some departments are excluded from it. We are intensifying in some departments, but the problem of terms of trade is being dealt with by all departments themselves. This is part of budgetary policy. Other groups will say: why did you do that in education? The 200 million for education is also net less, because that department too has to do with an exchange rate problem. So we can go off all the departments. They all contributed to the trading foot problem. We set our priorities in August. Moreover, we have listened very carefully to the Chamber, because the problems of V and J and Defence, the fight against poverty and so on have been given priority for a number of years now. I think those themes are recognizable. I come to education. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked about government spending on R&D, research and development. I've got the numbers straightened out again. His image is that it has been cut horribly and that it doesn't look good. That in itself is not right. Public expenditure on research and innovation amounted to 3.7 billion in 2015 and 3.8 billion in 2016 and 2017. We must also realise that many of the public contributions in this sphere are now in fiscal instruments. There are therefore direct subsidies, but also fiscal instruments. The Wbso and the innovation box cost the government 743 million in tax expenditure in 2012. It is expected to be 2.5 billion this year. The Wbso and the innovation box are widely used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u33	I do not know these figures as well as this Minister, but that was not really my concern. I was interested in the public research money. I do not mean so much the money that is made available to business tax, but the money that public institutions can spend on research, one of the main examples of which is the NWO line. I am happy to be corrected, but in my opinion the following has happened. At the beginning of this cabinet, the FES funds, which were once fully intended for this purpose, were given a different destination. That blow, if I may say so, has never been overcome by the research institutions. I have seen a table, if the Minister doubts it, I try to find it for him, not only in terms of stability over this cabinet period, but also in terms of real effective decline, not only in a relative sense, but also in an absolute sense. To be honest, I find that a relatively embarrassing matter for a knowledge-based economy. I was hoping that this minister could have done something about this in a year in which something was to be divided and in which the Dutch Nobel Prize was also earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u34	As proud as we all are of this Nobel Prize, that is not in itself a reason to take ad hoc decisions, but I understand the argument. Mr Rinnooy Kan is right that the abolition of the FES has led to a one-off reduction in public spending on research. But we must realise that these resources have never been structural. If we had had the FES, there would have been virtually no money left, because of the huge fall in gas revenues. Gas revenues are much more than halved. We have 7.5 billion less gas revenues next year than we expected at the start of this cabinet. I don't have to explain all this, but that's because of the price effect and because of the partial shut-off of the gas crane, because of the problems in Groningen. The FES was fed from gas revenues. I think the old image of when we still had the FES is being held. The FES is gone. The result was a one-off decrease. But the FES expenditures have never been structural and they also fluctuated very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u35	In all honesty, I mentioned the origin of the FES as an explanation, but not as an excuse. Research institutions and researchers have to deal with declining budgets offered by the government for their activities. That's my point. A country which seeks to be a knowledge-based economy is in serious deficit. The countries around us that were also having a hard time did not do that. On the contrary, they have increased their public research expenditure in recent years. I find that contrast distressing. I had hoped that was the reason why I said that the Minister would have done something about it this year, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u36	Mr Rinnooy Kan insists on his firm words. That forces me to contradict him a little more precisely. R&D intensity increased from 1.9% to 2% of GDP between 2011 and 2014. On average in the EU, R&D expenditure increased from 1.8% to 1.9% between 2011 and 2014. So we are still above the EU average and it has also increased as a percentage of our GDP. In addition, you step over that, but I do not do that.Our big problem in the Netherlands is not that we did worse in terms of public investment in research, but that the private investment in the Netherlands of Dutch companies in R&D was very much behind in our neighbouring countries. This is precisely where we are catching up, thanks to the increase in the use of fiscal instruments. That is indeed relevant. To a large extent, this research is carried out in conjunction with scientific institutions. Luckily, they're not separate worlds anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u37	I would like to receive an overview of these figures from the Minister. Perhaps that could be sent to the entire Chamber. That would give me the opportunity to point out again exactly what part of the list I was talking about is noticeable and to make it clear once again that, as far as I am concerned, it is still something that is not appropriate and regrettable for our knowledge-based economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u38	Yes, it would not be appropriate and regrettable if public education spending had deteriorated and our position had deteriorated compared to neighbouring countries. However, I have just shown that this is not the case. I'll put it on paper and send it to the Chamber. Then we can formulate these figures even more precisely. Looking ahead, of course, I very much agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan. It is incredibly important for the Netherlands and the future of our economy and competitiveness, also for the employability of all those people who are now losing their jobs through automation and robotisation, that we focus on education, research and development. If you ask me what my personal priorities are for the next few years, those issues are very high for me. This brings me to a question from Mr Postema on the additional resources for education and equality in education. He has asked why this money has already been invested, while there is still a policy investigation into educational deficits. In the Lower House, members Nijboer and Harbers have tabled a motion on behalf of PvdA and VVD in response to the education report of the Education Inspectorate. Our own Education Inspectorate has said that equality in education is not going well and we have reacted immediately to it. We do that along three lines. I'm not gonna walk it all the way by. The most important is switching programs and switching classes to be able to train children who have the potential but lack the connection on parts, so that they can still reach that higher level and no talent is lost. That is a very specific use of these resources, with a very specific look at what is now working and what we know about the effective use of educational money. The CPB has written a report on this subject, entitled Kansrijk onderwijsmaatschappij. That is why we have been guided. Mr Postema has asked whether this relates to the Dijsselbloem committee, which said: leave it to the schools. The committee did not say in general that it should be left to the schools. There are at least two main themes in which the government has a major responsibility for education. Firstly, of course, the quality of education and secondly, the system as a whole. If the system as a whole is failing and is hampering educational emancipation, for example because the transition between types of education is not sufficient or because the selection in the system is too rapid or not good, these are real system responsibilities and the government has to respond to them. The committee's conclusion was not "let the education of the schools" but "be very precise as the government you send to and do so and do not interfere too much with educational or didactic choices." Anyway, I'll let my old hobby rest. From a budgetary point of view, I have had the question of how to close the gap between education and monuments. Mr Ester asked for it. The actual gap arose because the Minister of Education, on behalf of the Cabinet, said to postpone the introduction of the two new subsidy schemes until 1 January 2018. Then there will only be a one-time saving loss of 25 million in 2017 on the monument deduction. The Minister of Education said to cover that in the spring note. By the way, there are amendments from the House of Representatives seeking cover for this one-off loss of savings in the under-exhaustment of the VWS ministry. It is now in the hands of the House of Representatives to decide on that coverage. Otherwise, we'll cover it ourselves. The loss of savings has thus been limited and one-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u39	That's enlightening. Does this mean that the first budgetary rule, the separation of revenue and expenditure, has been complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u40	There is also a budget rule that says that a reform would allow the budget rule to be lifted, as it were. We do so because it may sometimes be desirable from a policy point of view to convert a tax instrument into a subsidy instrument, i.e. an expenditure, or vice versa. We don't do that ad hoc. We are not actually doing it, unless this other budgetary rule allows it to be a reform. Why is this a reform? We believe, also on the basis of evaluations, that these two fiscal instruments, the monument deduction and the training deduction, have a great deal of deadweight. I'm looking for a good Dutch word. That they are not used in all respects purposefully and efficiently for the social purpose for which they are intended. There's a difference of opinion on that. That is our policy view. That is why we want to use the funds much more specifically, and that does indeed make it possible to save money. In that operation, it is permissible, according to another budget rule, so you can see that it is possible to lift the separation between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u41	I would just like to point out that this is a deliberate departure from the first budget rule, which is also literally the first budget rule, with the argument you have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u42	Yes, you're right. Then there is a demand for budgetary consequences of the higher care premiums. Maybe I should say something about the system of that first. When we make the budget and finish it in August, we look at purchasing power. Then we have to make an assumption about these care premiums. These are determined by private insurers and they are free to do so. In fact, they must be free to do so, because it is a private system. It is not possible, and not even allowed, under European legislation to say from the government "you must fix the premium in this way." We can, but then we have to do a system review with a public insurer and we do not have that system. We always have to make an estimate and it always deviates from the average premium. In some years, this is not so bad, and in some years it is not so bad. This is disappointing for 2017. It has an impact on purchasing power, but it has an effect every year, as other macroeconomic developments have an impact on purchasing power. If inflation is low, lower than expected, the purchasing power picture is different. If the interest rate is different than expected, it has an effect on people's purchasing power, and so on. That goes for this, too. Lower incomes are compensated. It's automatic. It's in the care allowance. The budgetary impact will be around €0.25 billion. We will only know that more precisely when everything stops. That is why we will process it in the spring. Mr De Grave asked about the stable development of the premium and whether it could not be done in any other way. The first question was: couldn't it be sooner? This would help us to predict purchasing power more precisely, but this is preceded by negotiations between insurers and healthcare providers. Then the whole process would have to come forward. We would like that, but that would lead to major challenges in the healthcare sector. As is well known, many health care rates have a huge delay. We want to have numbers sooner and we want to have access to them earlier, but there has been a tremendous delay in the realization figures over the past few years. Minister Schippers is working on that. She's trying to get those numbers sooner. In theory, this would also make it possible to conclude the contracts for the coming year earlier, but it is a tough problem. VWS has no interest in making the figures prettier or worse. We're trying to estimate these premiums as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u43	I give the floor to Mr De Grave, because the Minister is dropping a silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u44	He looked hopefully at me in the sense of "Did I please you with this?" I also understand why the Minister is somewhat reluctant. It is complicated and complex and there are different sides to it. Moreover, it would be better for many to conclude the negotiations between health insurance companies and the health care field earlier, for example because consumers, citizens, are better placed to consider the health care premium and insurance. After all, you know better which package you buy. That's another complication: you have to decide which health insurance provider you want to insure you with, while you don't know what has been agreed. So there are many reasons why that would be better. I see the complication, but it has something unsatisfactory. This also has to do with the yo-yo effect of these reserves, which also plays a role. It is an increase of 10%, while a 1% growth in care in hospitals was agreed and there were significant windfalls in other years. I would like to ask the Minister again if he is prepared to map this. Is he prepared to look into what possibilities there are and can he let the Chamber know so that we can discuss them further? I recognize it's complex. I do not expect immediate solutions either, but much could be gained if we could make progress on this issue. So my request is: map this together again and see what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u45	I recognize it's an interesting theme. If we were to succeed in achieving a much more even rate of premium development, it would rest on many fronts. The insurers' buffers can also play a role in this, but they may need to be used differently. However, the buffers vary greatly from insurer to insurer. Insurance companies decide for themselves. Over the past few years, they have taken a lot out of their buffers to dampen the premium increase, and then you suddenly see a shock movement. It is then wisdom afterwards to say: shouldn't you have gradually increased the premium? By the way, it was in our estimates. We had a more gradual increase in this. However, insurers have been able to limit the premium increase for a number of years compared to what they expected. Our estimate was a few years in a row too bleak. We have seen a few times in recent years that a lot of reserves have been deployed, leaving that premium increase below the estimate and there was a purchasing power advantage. You can now ask yourself if that could not have been more gradual. We would have seen a more moderate increase this year. I will take Mr Van Rooijen's request, but I will put it in the mailbox with Mr Schippers. That's not because I want to get rid of it, but because I think it's cleaner. It is system responsible and therefore also responsible for insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you for that answer, too. That's clear. To what extent does the Dutch Bank play a role in this question of the level of buffers? In the context of Solvency II, the Netherlands Bank has the task of ensuring that this is done. Insurance companies say that they have already used up a lot, but that the Nederlandsche Bank, Solvency II and perhaps even new requirements that have come up after that make sure that they have to be careful. Can the Minister say anything about that? My second question is: would it be possible for VWS, together with the care sector, to try, on the basis of what I call "the accounting figures for the previous year," to give the results, for example; there will always be an audit and you name it and a statement to give a kind of preliminary indication of the annual results and of the first half of the new year in order to arrive at a premium estimate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u47	On that last point, I am really going to put a brake on it, because I know that Mr Schippers has been running a project for several years with regard to these care rates. It really goes back to the first- and second-line care providers. What do they have to say about declarations and so on? There is a great delay factor before they are with the insurers and before we have aggregated information on healthcare expenditure. I cannot promise here that a preliminary estimate will be made in the first half of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u48	No, after the first six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u49	Sorry, I understood you correctly on that point, but I really can't promise that. Let me come back to the first point about the role of DNB. It is true that insurers need a certain minimum buffer. The question is: is that buffer, the mandatory buffer of DNB, the buffer with which you are allowed to cope with any setbacks, after all, that is the character of a buffer or do you need to have a margin above it so that you always have at least that minimum buffer? That is, of course, an interesting discussion. Mr Schippers will send the Chamber a letter following Mr De Grave's request. I will ask her if she can include Mr Van Rooijen's request. What exactly is going on with these buffer requirements? Then where is the buffering effect? So let me summarize the question. Mr Postema asked a question about Wmo budgets which remain unspent at municipal level. Our approach is that we have decentralised this part of the care with a considerable degree of policy freedom. This freedom of policy will increase even further in the coming years. Some parts still have bulkheads, but they're going to disappear. Of course, the municipalities have strongly insisted on this from the point of view of philosophy "if you want us to be able to approach the clients and organise the various forms of care around a family or a household, then you should not hang a label on every part of the budget." Then we may also have to accept that municipalities sometimes do not spend resources at all per year in terms of policy objectives. There is now a large amount of money left unspent in the Wmo. The question is: is this occasional or is it structural? I think it's too early to say. I think part of the explanation is that the municipalities are cautious. They're still at the beginning of these decentralisations, they don't know exactly what they're gonna get from spending and so they're careful. Maybe now they've been too careful and that's why that money has gone unspent. Some municipalities then keep this available for that purpose; others use it for other social purposes; this has partly to do with the relationships we have with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u50	I thank the Minister for the answer. This plays not only with the Wmo, but also with the youth-ggz and even in the former favorite field of the minister, education. That's where it plays with regard to the suburb. Funds have been allocated to the Community Fund for this purpose, but they have not been earmarked and there is therefore a certain freedom of use. There is a good reason for this, but there is also another side to the story, because the people who take it away are the people who need it or who want to have a decent housing for those schools. There is not always as much transparency in the accountability of these resources as we would all like. In addition, the Court of Auditors cannot give an opinion on this because of the constitutional barriers that exist on that point. We may come back to that in the Compatibility Act. So you're also dependent on local accountants to get that insightful from time to time. So that's the problem you're dealing with. I do not have one-two-three solutions to this either, because I can see that there is this freedom of spending, but I would like to emphasise that municipalities really have to answer for it. It's too important to keep it in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u51	I fully agree with Mr Postema. The municipalities were not immediately enthusiastic about it, but the cabinet has promoted the understanding of which municipalities have left a lot of money and which municipalities may have put extra money into their care tasks from other means. This allows municipal councils to say to their college that there is a lot of money left in their congregation; how is that possible, because the needs are high here too? I believe that this type of transparency helps to ensure that the democratic debate and accountability about how the resources are used and whether this is done properly, really takes place in the municipal councils. My concern is a little that our reflex is not that Mr Postema has advocated, but you will hear in The Hague that the Minister is pulling it back, getting the money back and putting a fence around it. If this happens, the substantive added value of decentralisation, namely to bring together all forms of social care, will be lost. I hope that transparency will help to make a much better sense at local level of what is happening with the money and whether it is being spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u52	Could the provinces play a role in the context of a broadly defined supervisory task? Would they be able to see to it, at least registering, but perhaps a little more steering? They could say to municipalities: you sometimes have a lot left; book it for next year. In other words, do not allow the money to be spent in advance on lampposts and the like, as euphemism is now a bit. Can the province play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u53	Unfortunately, I have to sell no to Mr Van Rooijen for a second time tonight. The cabinet's not for that. It is not one of the province's tasks. It really belongs to the domain of the municipality. There is, of course, intensive consultation between the Minister of BZK and the State Secretary of VWS on the one hand and the municipalities on the other to know how decentralisation is going. Then it is also on this subject, the unspent resources. Consultations are taking place. Together with VWS and BZK, we look at exactly what the explanation is for it. Is it structural or is it just caution in the first few years? The latter could be an explanation. That's how we do it. We're not gonna bring in another government layer. It is complex enough in the Netherlands. In the end, it really is the responsibility of the municipalities. Mrs Vos has asked about climate issues and Paris. What is the government doing about extra policies after the energy agreement? What does the Cabinet think of the climate bill? The National Energy Exploratory came out in mid-October. It shows that the CO reduction will be 23% by 2020, i.e. within the range of 20% to 26% set in the Energy Agreement. Further efforts are being made under the Energy Agreement to achieve these objectives. The SER, the guarantor committee that monitors the entire process, is closely involved. This brings the 25% we need to achieve by 2020, according to the Urgenda judgment. The figures have improved on that point. Many measures have been taken, such as the Energy Efficiency Incentive Scheme for the sustainability of housing corporations, the National Energy Savings Fund for private owners, a recent shift in the energy tax from electricity to gas, a subsidy for energy savings in the home, etc. Their use can also be pushed on parts, because there is underexhaustment. However, the resources are available. The cabinet has also promised the Chamber to launch an investigation into the possibility of phasing out coal power stations. We are coming to this point in December with our view. I also thought Mrs Vos was talking about this and the long-term energy policy is being set out. It's coming in early December. Recently, there has been a broad social initiative involving many large companies in favour of a climate law that provides more guidance for the longer term. The implementation of that law is still under discussion: which goals, how far away, intermediate goals, one goal or several goals: that debate takes place. The question is also how to regulate the governance of the entire transition in that law and whether we should set up new institutions to get it out of political hands. I am never in favour of this, because I believe that politicians should be responsible and accountable. This is the debate on the content of the law. The bill is now in the Lower House. In the run-up to its examination, the cabinet will take a position. However, that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u54	I have a question about the energy agreement. The Minister is right that the result in terms of CO is moving in the right direction. This is due, among other things, to new calculations. But still we are not achieving the goals of energy saving and renewable energy, as it now looks like. The Minister points out that there are all kinds of facilities and opportunities, but the problem is simply that it does not happen in practice. There is far too little investment in energy saving by companies, private owners and housing corporations. What is the government going to do to intensify these issues and ensure that they do? At the end of the day, we will have to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u55	It is a bit silly to say that Mrs Vos should have this debate with colleagues Kamp, Blok, or Dijksma. I see that the calls for tenders for land for wind energy at sea are now really on steam. They're going at far lower prices than we thought a few years ago. The Netherlands had a huge backlog, but I think we are going to enter it under this cabinet for the first time. That's hard. Something must be done, particularly in the area of financing, because the whole climate problem also raises a question of financing. We will come forward with proposals for a national investment bank before the end of the year. I don't know if that's what it's gonna be. There are all kinds of technocratic, official terms for it, but most often the term national investment bank is used. One of the themes where we see a financing issue, in addition to the themes of SMEs and small start-ups, is the large companies that carry out large social projects: making the economy more sustainable, energy saving and renewable energy projects. Moreover, the first problem is usually not the money, because they are increasingly well-performing projects. It's often an organizational issue. How do you get the projects well organized and attractive for investors? Today, the debate has often mentioned the role of pension funds. Pension funds are very interested in financing such projects. They are long-term and have a guaranteed return, but it's not their first expertise, so they'd like to see those projects as financially viable. There too, such a financing institution can play a role. We come with this before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u56	Thank you. The Minister mentioned the climate bill. I assume that this is the initiative that has been submitted to the House of Representatives. Do I understand correctly that the cabinet says that it sees that this is going the right way? Did I understand that correctly or did I misunderstand the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u57	I have said that there is still a lot of political and social discussion about what is to be done in such a law and that we will have that discussion on the basis of the initiative of Samsom and Klaver that lies in the Lower House. We will come up with a cabinet response. This concerns both the content and ambitions of climate policy and the design, institutions and governance of the process: how are you going to organise this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u58	I had the impression that the Minister had completed the chapter on energy. If so, I would like to refer to a question I have asked. I asked what exactly happened to the €100 million entered in the budget last year under the influence of the debate in this Chamber for the purpose of energy-efficient housing. Did they also stick to the underexhaustment or did something beautiful happen to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u59	Excuse me, this question had escaped me and my officials. Can we come back to that in the second term? That would help me very much to conceal a painful situation. Then I'll come to nature policy. This was largely decentralised to the provinces a few years ago. At the beginning of this year, a new approach to agricultural nature management was introduced, as Mrs Vos said. At the moment we are dealing with the agricultural budget on the other side. I understand that there is an amendment there for the grazing bird policy. I think we should wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u60	My question was actually a little more fundamental. Why is this not an issue at all in the investment package that the cabinet is now putting on the table? We know that there has been an enormous blow to the bald by an earlier cabinet. That's partly retained, but it's far from complete. There is just a huge shortage of good quality nature in the Netherlands. There are a lot of threats and there is a lot of need for protection. However, the investment package does not allocate an extra cent to nature. That surprised me. Why isn't this part of the cabinet's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u61	It is not the case that any underweep that was not invested in August with extra money is suddenly no longer important. We simply have a standing budget and a standing policy. That goes for this too. Mrs Vos is absolutely right. In my memory, during the previous cabinet period, there was a drastic cut in money for nature. This has been repaired in two steps, but in the opinion of Mrs Vos this is not complete. Both in the spring agreement and at the start of this cabinet, extra money has been made available for this. That's state-of-the-art policy. If you don't put some money on top of that every year, that doesn't mean it's not important. As Minister of Finance, I would not welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u62	I don't think you should add anything to every part of it, because you would hear it differently from the Chamber. But I think this is a special subject. Nature is under enormous pressure. We still have a considerable backlog as a result of a very severe austerity in the past. When you look at the developments in this country, the increased pressure and pressure on nature, I find it extremely disappointing that the cabinet did not say at this point: there is an investment in place here, we are making a green choice. I note that this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u63	That observation is correct in itself. We set a number of other priorities in August, given the security situation in our country and beyond. We have also made additional money available for a number of social problems. Mrs. Fox is consistent. GroenLinks had earmarked up to 100 million extra in the counter-budget for this purpose. This is, by the way, a subject for which the provinces are specifically responsible. The provinces, at least most, are certainly not poor. It is also conceivable that they would give an impetus to this from their own resources. But they won't take that away from me. I have already promised to return to the question of where we stand in terms of the economy in relation to the CPB's estimates. The CPB estimated growth of 1.7% for 2016 and 2017 and a fall in unemployment from 7.4% in 2014 to 6.9% in 2015 and 6.2% in 2016 and 2017. Several members have said that the CPB expects the decline in unemployment to stagnate. The figure so far is as follows: unemployment fell to 5.6% of the labour force last October. So we are way ahead of that estimate. Of course, that may turn against us at some point, but it does not look like that at the moment. Growth is also stronger than expected in the latest estimates. In this year there is a growth of 0.7% three quarters in a row. So that's quarter to quarter. If this is repeated in the fourth quarter, we will be close to 2.1% or 2.2% growth this year. All this remains to be done, but compared to all the figures and macroeconomic figures, we are doing a lot better than we expected at the beginning of this year. Unemployment has fallen by 114 000 people over a year, while the number of workers continues to increase. In the meantime, the labour force has also increased by 49 000 people. This shows that a lot of people are actually coming to work from unemployment at the moment. In addition, the labour force is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u64	It is indeed a good thing that the latest CPB figures show lower unemployment than previously anticipated. However, the Macro Economic Recognition (COD) indicates that the growth of the number of jobs in 2017 is falling again compared to 2016 and that this would stagnate the decline in unemployment. Apparently, the CPB has the idea that next year it's gonna go down again. The CPB had also said that there would be a 90,000 job growth in 2016, but that it would go back to 60,000 in 2017. Is it true that, despite the fact that it is going well this year, it will unfortunately fall back next year and unemployment will stagnate more or less? What does the Cabinet expect at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u65	Now I'm really on slippery ice. The cabinet must be very careful with its own expectations, because then we can be told that they are all politically coloured expectations. All we have are the CPB figures. The CPB will present updated figures in December. I give Mrs Vos a suggestion of a point where a correction could be made. The CPB's expectation of the direct effect of the Brexit result in England. This is thus only the mere fact of the referendum result.. was for next year a growth loss of, I believe, 0.4%. I think that this negative effect will come, but gradually, if trade relations are made more difficult. For the time being, the UK economy is doing well. Unemployment is falling further. Growth rates are high, in the last quarters near where the Netherlands is. I believe that together with the UK we are at the top right now. So I don't know if the negative effect of the Brexit will occur to that extent in 2017. This was an important explanatory factor for the reduction of the CPB's growth estimate and thus also for the stagnation of unemployment rates. In order to see whether the CPB is adjusting these figures, we have to wait for December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u66	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u67	Anyway, it's uncertain how it's gonna be next year. There is still a chance that growth rates will indeed fall short for the coming year. What is the government going to do about additional investment and additional incentives for employment? I miss that very much in the Millions Note. What is the Minister going to do about extra investment in and additional job creation? What policy is there for this in the coming year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u68	I was talking about the investment impulse and the purchasing power package. This supports people's purchasing power and hence domestic spending. The package of 5 billion in its full size, including in terms of type of measures, will enter into full force in 2017. The low-income benefit, an income subsidy for employers of people at the bottom of the labour market, will take effect from 2017. In doing so, the 5 billion package is fully operational. With these growth rates, I think we need to ask ourselves whether much more extra investment is the most sensible policy. I think that we should gradually put the budget in order and encourage and facilitate investment, especially on the private side, because there is just a lot of capacity to invest in Dutch business. It seems that we should continue to promote and facilitate this in parts. Think of SMEs where there is a strong need for credit. Think of major societal projects where major challenges lie. We must also support purchasing power. Why is economic growth so stable, so strong and is it getting stronger? That's because that growth is so broad. In the past, the Dutch economy has often been wiped out thanks to exports and world trade. Now you see growth over the full width. That reassures me very much. The investments are strong on the basis of confidence from producers who invest a lot. Consumer spending is an important contribution. The housing market and construction are strongly attracted and contribute well to economic recovery. Exports also contribute. So it's really wide. I have no reason to take any additional ad hoc measures now, when things are going so well. Again, we have already surpassed the CPB figures on next year's expectations in many respects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. This is the right microphone, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u70	I think it's a good microphone. He's still doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u71	I've always been told to stand here interrupting the minister. Anyway... Following on from what Mrs Vos has just said, I would like to return to the employment growth that is welcome in itself. In the first term, I have noted that it mainly consists of an increase in the number of temporary employment and in the number of flex jobs compared to the number of permanent jobs. Can the Minister reflect on the nature of this increase in employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u72	I do not have that right now, but I am pleased that what stands out in the CBS's achievement figures is how the number of permanent jobs is growing and that the unemployed from over 45 years of age are also represented in that group that is coming back to work. Allow me to have those figures ready in the second term. I'm saying this by heart now, but I don't share the idea that it's all flexwork, that it's not a good job, that it's nothing. I'm sorry, but let's get the facts straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u73	I think that's a good idea. I don't have the numbers right now either. We will come back to it, but in anticipation I can say that it is true that the number of permanent jobs is also increasing. I checked the numbers this morning. However, the number of flex jobs is increasing more rapidly. The largest category in the subdivision made by the CBS of job growth is in the broadcasting sector. This may also underline the fragility of employment growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u74	Let's get the numbers. By the way, I think you have flexwork in all shapes and sizes. You also have exceptionally good flexwork, which for some people is a great way to get into the labour market. Then we probably find each other again in the thesis that there is also flexwork that is rather hopeless and underpaid. We cannot serve all the jobs that are added to the broadcasting industry as jobs that do not count, because they really count and that also comes out of income. Then I come to the bigger issue: okay, here we are, we've sort of had that, this is the budget, but have we done well in recent years? Some self-reflection was asked of me. That is absolutely not my hobby, because I do not like self-reflection at all, but if I am forced to do so, I will do so. This should be done on the basis of figures from Bas Jacobs and ING. ING has suddenly become extremely popular in left-wing circles, I have noticed. I don't know if ING is happy with that, but it is an interesting phenomenon. Looking back, the budget was well in place at the beginning of the crisis in 2008, but there were major underlying risks in our Dutch economy. We had a surplus of 0.5% in 2008. Because of the blow in the world economy, the enormous shock of world trade that happened to everyone, our budget went from +0.5% to -5.5% in one year. In the first instance, there has been a genuine counter-cyclical reaction, as Mr Postema also pointed out. There was an incentive package. A lot of extra money was spent. The Crisis and Recovery Act came at that time. By the way, then also started saving banks. This did not necessarily lead to an impact on spending on the economy, but it prevented the economy from being completely deregulated and disrupted. The cost of this was, to a large extent, on top of the public debt and thus at the expense of the taxpayer. The final account has yet to be reviewed. For the moment, we are trying to recover as much of these costs as possible. That was the start of the situation, in 2008-2009. The budget deficit was very rapid, very strong, partly because of our open economy and the blow that came in from world trade, and partly because of a conscious choice of stimulating policies. A number of other major weaknesses in our economy were also exposed. I mentioned all the banks. There was a huge risk in our banking sector, as few in the Netherlands had foreseen. Due to the size of the activities, their type, the structure of the balance sheets and the risks, they were extremely vulnerable. At the housing market this was foreseen by many. That has been discussed for a long time. We have had a debate in the Netherlands for perhaps ten or twenty years whether the housing market was healthy. What do we do with the mortgage interest deduction? Are we not pumping up the housing market and pushing up prices? The answer was yes, of course. One of the lessons we can learn together, hopefully, is that it is actually a bad time, perhaps the worst time, to reform if you are forced to do so, namely in an economic crisis. So we need to find the political strength, even in the coming period, in which things are improving economically, in order to continue to reform gradually. If we do not, then it is very likely that in ten years' time, when we are in a next crisis, we will have to make further major, deep reforms, in the labour market or in the pension system, because we will have put in place overdue maintenance. There is much to be said to allow a subsequent cabinet to gradually reform the pension system, the labour market and the housing market and not stop here. In my view, this is an important lesson from the situation in which we were at the start of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u75	The Minister talks about late maintenance in pensions. We will debate it later, so I do not need a detailed answer, but it is a little too easy to say that there seems to be late maintenance. Then the Minister will have to provide evidence for that. In the last 15 years, pension assets have gone from 500 billion to 1,500 billion. The Minister himself gave the figures. The housing market has kept itself very well with ups and downs. If it goes up hard, it can fall deep. Then it can go up again, but it can go down again. The question is what is wrong with that, if you take the average over fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years. We also had a relapse in 1978, which lasted until 1986. Those are cycles, we know, but I was bothered by the term behind-the-clock maintenance in pensions, while there are super-rewards and power is tripled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u76	Maybe we have a different picture. My view is that we always told ourselves that we had the best pension system in the world, but it turned out to be extremely vulnerable when the economic situation hit. Moreover, I also think that there are still success in the governance and structure of the sector, but well, it is not my sector. There are vulnerabilities in that too. It can all be much better. We have implemented reforms, such as the ftk, of which Mr Van Rooijen is not a fan, as we know. This is intended to reduce cyclical sensitivity, so that action does not have to be taken so hard and quickly, because it is being mitigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u77	The Minister also knows that last Friday the Secretary of State wrote that in Mercer's most recent report, the Netherlands scored the best in the world when it came to pension adequacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u78	I think it's wonderful to beat ourselves up, but I think there is one reason why we are having such a complicated political debate about our pension system and the state of pension funds. That's not because it's problem-free. You can't tell me that. Then I don't understand why we're having this discussion with each other. I think there's something going on. This has to do with the design of the system. I therefore believe that further reform of the system is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u79	Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u80	My party was not the only one who had major objections to the ftk two years ago. I will not mention the names of other groups, but it was a dime on his side or that ftk was copied here, unlike in the House of Representatives. That's what I wanted to say. Of course, it is not the case that our group and other groups are opposed to the adjustment of the system...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u81	What is your question, Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u82	Can the Minister explain that I have not yet heard why the system is unsustainable, or that it should at least be subject to a major change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr Van Rooijen has not heard the statement that the system is untenable. He has heard of the President of the Netherlands Bank, the supervisor of pension funds. I'm just saying, it's his verdict. However, I believe that the system needs to be adapted. The ftk was a first step towards this. The system appears to be extremely cyclical. I would also like to point out that it does matter whether you think that the actual increase in life expectancy is really a fact, or that you are waving it away. If you wave that away, like 50PLUS recently did, you can indeed look at it quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u84	I think Mr Van Rooijen would like to say something very briefly. It's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u85	I must object to the Minister's remark that 50PLUS finds something different about life expectancy than we have all seen so far. It only referred to Mrs Van Brenk's comment, which was referred to earlier in this debate. She said that the latest figures show a very small decrease. The Minister should not generalise this according to the fact that 50PLUS has a very fundamentally different opinion on it. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u86	But I am extremely concerned that the political debate on such a sensitive issue as "are our pensions really safe and do we deal with it carefully?" is increasingly polluted by denying facts. That's not helping. This applies to many subjects. We saw that in the American election too. Let us just leave the facts alone and then perhaps disagree on the content of the lessons to be drawn from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u87	Both Mr Van Rooijen and the Minister have cut me some grass. I would indeed ask the Minister to reflect on the fact that, in the pension world, it has long been neglected that life expectancy has grown much faster than people wanted to see. So there was something really going on with our funds. That's what those funds recognize, just like the Pension Federation. I believe only 50PLUS still claims that everything went very well. My question to the Minister has therefore already been answered, namely whether he can also include the issue of increasing life expectancy in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u88	Mr Van Rooijen, very briefly. I now give you the fourth opportunity to speak on the same subject. This is really the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u89	But the Minister and the colleague are addressing me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u90	You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u91	Yeah, okay, but we're gonna be called on right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u92	Short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u93	Yes, of course. I object to comments from others that things are said here by my party that are different from what they have been said. I talked about this in the first place. For my colleague, the ageing population, life expectancy has been integrated into the coverage of pension funds. When a new actuarial estimate came in a few years ago with a big leap, it was incorporated in the coverage rate in one go. So the whole ageing population up to today is in it and is taken back every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u94	Mr. Chairman. I return to the theme of "Taking lessons from tackling the crisis in recent years." Some people in this debate argue that the government would have cut down on the economy. Others say that this has cost a lot of growth and jobs. There are two truths to that. The government has not spent more than 40 billion, mostly extra, and has raised less than one third of the burden from citizens and businesses. If the government had not done so, there would have been additional growth in itself. I don't think anyone's fighting this. In other words, if we decided to add 40 billion more to any model, whether that is the ING model or CPB model, we would immediately see additional growth. The question then is how this relates to sound budgetary management in the longer term, so whether we are going to postpone the problem for ourselves. I note that the CPB is now saying that there has been a shelf life surplus for the first time in years. This means that no additional major cuts or interventions are needed in current policies and in the current state of the economy and expectations. It's sustainable. We can also pay for our systems in the future. This is an important change, which we have achieved with each other and which creates a very different climate for a next cabinet when it comes to the question of what to do next. A shelf life surplus is a fundamental improvement over where we were. Would we have achieved that situation if we had let the budget get out of hand? No, we would have had a completely different discussion. Then we would have had a very big deficit and a big debt. The most important part of the structural austerity we have achieved is linked to reforms, in health care, in the housing market and in taxation; think of the Witteveen framework, the deductibility of pension contributions and the mortgage interest deduction. All these reforms have structurally strengthened the budget. Some people say we shouldn't have done those reforms. The SP has rejected many of these reforms. But the Netherlands would have been much worse now, also in macroeconomic terms. Now we are doing very well compared to all our neighbouring countries. A comparison is often made with France and said: but France has lost less growth. But the Netherlands is much and much more prosperous per capita than France. Our unemployment rate is less than half that of France. French unemployment stands at about 10%. Our growth is expected to be above 2% this year. In France it is between 1% and 1.5%. The latest growth estimate has been revised downwards in France. I think we need to get a more real picture of where we stand in relation to our neighbouring countries. Indeed, the ING report claimed that France would have done better. That is far from reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u95	I'm sure Mr Van Apeldoorn has something to ask about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u96	France has done objectively better in terms of growth. As far as employment is concerned, this is not the case, but the employment rate was not high in France as compared to the Netherlands. I'd like to ask another question, taking a look at what the minister just said. The Minister's argument is that if the cabinet had not acted hard with austerity and burden increases, it would have gotten out of hand with the budget and we would have had an irresponsiblely high budget deficit and irresponsiblely higher public debt. The Minister does not contest the figure of that 5% extra growth in itself. What does he think of the argument that if we had this extra growth and we had done nothing at all, we would have achieved a deficit reduction through higher tax revenues? They were estimated by Bas Jacobs at 15 billion on the basis of 40 billion structural economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u97	The problem with this discussion is that the amount of savings is isolated and it is said that this has an effect on growth and employment. If you had put that amount in, you would have had more growth, so more revenue on the budget, but then the amount would be completely isolated. Reality is different. Why was our recession so deep? It was especially so deep because we also had a number of structural weaknesses in our economy, which were massively exposed. I'll just mention the housing market again. It has a huge impact on our economy. According to some, the construction sector had even grown too much in the years before, pumped up by the same housing market development. The construction sector has collapsed enormously. The financing of our SMEs was already extremely vulnerable to the crisis, with very high levels of debt and low equity. Moreover, the equity was often secured in real estate and the value of commercial real estate went down even more than on the housing market in the same period. That's what happened in retail. The macroeconomic situation of our economy, the housing market, the banks and all those other areas I am afraid to mention almost no more pension funds and just say: it was 40 billion. This 40 billion has been largely achieved through reforms, i.e. by taking action in these areas. Think also of the 6% per year rising healthcare costs, even for the SP, should it not be sustainable to allow care costs to continue growing by 6% per year when economic growth is even negative at some point? Where's that gonna end? This cabinet has dealt with these major problems. Was it the wrong time to do it? Sure, it should have happened sooner. Did we have a choice at the time? No. Have we isolated the cuts and done as a blow in the budgets? No, they were almost all connected to this type of reform. Is that what I'm standing for? Yes. Is the Netherlands much better now? Yes. Is France an example to us? Whoever still believes that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u98	Let me get this straight. The 40 billion I was talking about wasn't 40 billion in budget cuts, it was 40 billion in extra GNP we had. It was then distributed through certain calculations, but a total of 50 billion savings were made by the first two Rutte Cabinets. We can talk about the merits of certain reforms. The Minister talks about reforms in the housing market. We could talk about this, but the need for certain reforms is something other than what the two Rutte Cabinets have done, namely to cut a total of 50 billion. That has indeed, but the Minister does not deny that, had significant negative effects on growth and employment. As a result, a total of 365,000 additional jobs have been lost. Reforms do not necessarily have to translate into such a scale of austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u99	I think you've already had the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u100	That's true, but I'm trying another angle, if only to provoke self-reflection on the senators' side. Perhaps I should also address the political groups in the House of Representatives. I can remember vividly what was in the election programmes four years ago, including the SP, namely very substantial cuts. I praised the SP for that. The Study Group on Budgets always gives us advice on the budgetary challenge for the next period. This is also taken into account when the CPB calculates the electoral programmes. The SP was also attracted to that. I do not have the amounts ready now, but also the SP had very large budget cuts. This also applies to other groups here. These groups are now all saying that austerity in times of crisis is very bad: read the story of the Nobel Prize winner. They should have done so when they wrote their election programme. I simply point out the consistency of what we all do. I found it very brave of the SP that in the previous election programme I even thought that almost all the savings that the Study Group recommended had been made. Apparently, the SP is sorry about that now, but I'm not sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u101	Mrs. Vos, do you have to ask your question now, or...? We have to watch the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u102	You are, as always, very right, Mr President. However, I would like to mention the fact that the cuts have led to a very large loss of additional employment. I think that's something to think about. Is that wise? I mentioned the example of care. There is a need for reversals and changes, but the way that has happened was intense. A great deal of employment has been lost, including in home care. They were people who were difficult to find another job at the time. In a short time, many people have been deprived of care, without any alternative. The question is whether such an intervention was wise. Was that the right way to implement these reforms? Shouldn't we have done that much more gradually? Shouldn't we have taken more time? Should we not have avoided the damage at a time of crisis, namely the loss of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u103	First a similar remark about GroenLinks. GroenLinks also had the necessary cuts in the election programme. GroenLinks was one of the bearers of the Spring Agreement. At the bottom of the crisis, the Spring Agreement was an operation of 11 billion, of which 9 billion were immediately increased in the form of burdens. I am not saying anything about that in the sense of: was that good or bad? Now parties walk away from that very easily and criticize the cabinet for the fact that the intervention. GroenLinks was, however, one of the bearers of the Spring Agreement. There was a lot of interference at the time. Interesting for the relationship between intervention and economic growth is the following. This was in 2012, but the recovery of the Dutch economy began in early 2013. When the big package of the Spring Agreement, whatever you may think of it, landed in the budget, in the burden of the citizens, the economy started to grow more or less again. Do I say that intervention in this form and size is good for growth? No, but I do not think it is a good idea to say that it is one-on-one and that it is a matter for the cabinet, even though it has been the responsibility of the government itself. Then there's the more specific question about home care. I do defend the home care and the cuts on care at all, because the spending on care in the Netherlands has just grown and every year continues to grow. Ten years of discussion has been held on the Dutch newspapers' opinion pages on the increase in expenditure, of the AWBZ alone. There were endless reports on this increase in expenditure. It wasn't sustainable. There were endless proposals from study groups on how to do it. Yeah, we did it. Did we do it at the wrong time? Sure. It should have been sooner. Was it too abrupt? I'd be happy to give that to Mrs. Vos. We should have done it more slowly. Is it a choice to say in the home care sector: should the government now compensate for the household help for everyone, even if you could pay that very well in terms of income? Is that a socially responsible choice? Yeah, if you do it carefully, I still think it's a responsible choice. However, it differs from one municipality to another how well this is carried out and whether it is done socially. I hope that the municipal councils will take a critical look at this, but the question of whether domestic aid for all older people is financed by the government is in itself a sane one. I have been asked how I look at the European Commission's call for the Netherlands and Germany to pursue a more generous fiscal policy. This has been done on the basis of the budget that we have now surrendered. It is not the Commission's criticism of our policy. Some have put it here as if the Commission would have said that the Netherlands has done quite wrong with the austerity policy and that the Netherlands should have spent more money. That is not the case. Last year we were still in the category that we barely met the budget requirements of Brussels. We were encouraged to further strengthen the structural balance. This year, when we drew up our budget, we were not sure, in all honesty, whether we were going to comply with European budgetary rules. In the spring, this did not appear to be the case, nor did the expenditure benchmark..... not grow too fast? This is not the case either on the structural deficit side or on the other side of the deficit. We didn't improve enough in that respect. Eventually, as the economy recovers more quickly and we pursue sensible policies, we do comply with European budgetary agreements on all fronts. Now we are given the incentive to spend more in return mail. The budgetary pact in Europe makes it very clear that you have to pursue responsible budgetary policies and that you are gradually putting your budget in order. To those who suggest that it was all very rough, austerity, I say: we have been working in the euro area for eight years now. The Netherlands is almost out of deficit, but there are countries for whom this is not yet the case. Spain has a deficit of more than 4%, France is still around 3%. There are countries that now have a government debt well above 100%. I don't have to mention Greece. Italy has a public debt of 130%. France is ticking the 100% this year. In terms of budgetary targets, therefore, we are not yet here. It's very gradual. Budgetary policy is not that rough. In any case, the Commission has no binding power to say: if you have your budget in order, then you have to spend the money, or you have to give it back in the form of relief or you have to invest it. That is not the way the budgetary pact is structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u104	Mr Van Apeldoorn, try to keep it as short as possible, because I'll look at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u105	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I just didn't quite believe what I heard. Does the Minister really want to say that there has been no austerity in countries such as Spain, Portugal and, in particular, Greece? I would say: ask the Greeks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u106	Mr Van Strien, do you have a follow-up question or any other question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u107	Another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u108	It really matters what country you're talking about. When we got real figures on Greece in 2010, the Greeks had a 15% deficit. I have not yet heard an alternative approach from the SP on how to get Greece and the Greek economy out of that valley. Mr Van Apeldoorn will undoubtedly say: the Greeks must get out of the euro so that they can devalue their currency. But if a country has such structural problems with public finances and the economy, devaluation will not help that country at all. There are many examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u109	Very briefly, Madam President. If a country loses more than a quarter of its national income, I believe there is austerity, with major consequences. In addition to stepping out of the euro, alternative approaches could, of course, include reducing or partially rejecting Greek debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u110	Sure, and that's already been done on parts. I'll tell you more about that later. I'll be back in Greece in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u111	I hear the Minister talking about the major sovereign debt in the various southern European countries. Are these large public debts in southern Europe also a reason for the Minister to come back to the usefulness of the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u112	No. The budgetary rules are clear and they are starting to work. Budgetary deficits in the euro area have been reduced on average from around 6% a few years ago to an average of 1.5% this year. Government debt is also beginning to decrease on average. In the Netherlands, six percentage points have already been completed in a few years. One of the honourable Members, Mr Schalk, I thought he was talking about one percentage point a year and he asked if that was enough. No, that's not enough, but it's also going much faster. We got six percentage points off it in two years. In other countries, too, public debt will fall in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u113	As a result, does this have to do with the fines that have been paid, or will the Minister come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u114	Fines are relatively small. So they have no connection to the state debt. But Mr Van Strien knew that too, as I see from his smile. On 5 December, the Eurogroup will discuss Mr Moscovici's recommendation for the euro area as a whole. There will be differences of opinion. Germany has been in surplus for a number of years. Some will say: the Germans simply need to invest more. I think this is going to happen; for example, a new investment programme is being developed in the German road network. But that will not save other countries in the euro area, which are simply not yet competitive. They will have to do it to a great extent on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u115	Indeed, I had specifically asked for the recommendation of the European Commission. The Minister said that he would discuss this with colleagues and that there would be different views on it. He refers to Germany, but of course I had also specifically referred to the Netherlands. The European Commission also refers to the Netherlands, because the Netherlands would still have room on the budget to make additional public investments. If things are going so well with the Dutch economy, as the Minister constantly points out, does he not agree with the European Commission on these grounds that there is now room for additional investment in the strength of our economy, in sustainability, in infrastructure and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u116	Firstly, I do not think we are yet there in terms of the budget. The structural balance is extremely volatile. This year we have set and achieved our goals in our draft budget, but, as I said, we have not yet met them in the spring. So it's all still very dependent on changing variables. Secondly, our debt is still high. You can say that a good investment is allowed on the debt, can't you? That is true in itself, but I am extremely reluctant to do so because of the Dutch combination of an open economy and a strong welfare state. An open economy is highly dependent on international winds. At the same time, you have to conduct prudent fiscal policies if you want to maintain a strong national welfare state, and that is what I want. Otherwise, when things are a little different, the budget is going to get out of control very quickly. Then we need to talk to each other very quickly about whether to cut back and how to protect the vulnerable. That's what this cabinet did. In recent years, for example, there has been no mention of decoupling at any time, unlike the 1980s, when that was a tried and tested recipe. So we have always ensured that that bottom was protected, sometimes with targeted purchasing power measures, such as extra money for the care allowance and the rent allowance. But that shows once again that we have a fragile and open economy. Our budget is also quickly out of control. So that really requires us to build a buffer in our budget. That 3% deficit is, of course, not a buffer in itself. Nor can that 3% be the ultimate goal. The Netherlands really needs to think about what buffer is needed in order not to say again immediately in the next economic and international crisis: we need to cut 6 billion, what are we going to do about it? The SP always says: the policy pursued is therefore procyclically poor. That's partly true. You should have taken the measures in good times. My problem with the SP is that it never supports intervention, action or strict budgetary policy in good times. Whether it's good or bad times, more money needs to be spent. Changes in the welfare state are taboo both in good times and in bad times. Of course, that's not a recipe for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u117	Mr Van Apeldoorn, you feel addressed, but I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u118	I will not go into the last thing the Minister said, because then we would have a whole debate on the policy of the SP. Can I simply conclude from the Minister's reply that the Minister and therefore the Cabinet do not agree with the analysis by the European Commission, Mr Moscovici, that additional investments are needed a) and b) that there would be room for this in the Dutch budget, despite the fact that Dutch growth is now so much better. Is that the port of his answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u119	I think that investment is very desirable and that the Dutch cabinet will also make room for it while maintaining prudent fiscal policies. We are also very much in the process of encouraging private investment, such as pension funds, insurers and other investors in the Netherlands. There is much more potential in this than in public investment. That shouldn't be a blind spot of ours. Investment in the economy does not always have to come from the public side. There are many resources available. Certainly the big business in the Netherlands is well capitalized and has the space to invest. There are pension funds that want to invest more in the Netherlands. Let's take advantage of that potential. That doesn't have to come from the government. Then the government can concentrate on what Mr Van Apeldoorn and I attach great importance to: a strong welfare state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u120	Mr Van Apeldoorn, I would like to end by saying this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u121	Yes, this is my third point. Let me summarize the Minister's answer. "Yes, Mr Van Apeldoorn, what you are saying is correct. I do not agree with the European Commission's analysis. We're not going along with that. We do not accept that recommendation." I'll add the following. The Commission is also right to say that the Netherlands can now borrow at historically low rates of close to zero. This would actually make investments self-financing in the event of additional investment growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u122	I believe that the problem of further stimulating investment in the Netherlands at the moment is not financing. That's just not the problem. It concerns the quality of projects, whether sufficient own resources are also provided and whether risk resources are available. Financing is generally not a problem in the Dutch economy. There are bottlenecks in SMEs. There are bottlenecks in major social investment, which I talked to Mrs Vos about. We have already taken many initiatives to attract pension funds and other investors. We are going to set up an investment bank to push that process even further. However, Mr Van Apeldoorn only thinks of investments from the budget. It is also possible to do so within the budget. Moreover, the budget is increasing in size every year. That's another picture: there's been so terrible cuts, everything's been cut down and there's no money left. The budget has increased year in, year out, also for the care, I say. There is therefore room within the budget for targeted investment, for example in research and development or in other political priorities. I do not need any formal notice or advice from the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u123	One interruption, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u124	It is completely unclear to me. The Minister says, on the one hand, that he wants to invest, but that industry must do so above all. I agree with that, by the way: this must be done. On the other hand, however, the Minister says he does not need "no drive from the European Commission." I totally disagree with that. I don't understand. The European Commission appeals to him: The Netherlands has a trade surplus and therefore needs to do some extra work to start the quacking European economy. So he's being called upon to do extra things. This means both that the government itself would have to invest extra......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is the Minister prepared to do so and have both the government invest and the private sector hunt down? Or does the minister say he's not gonna do anything extra about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u125	No, otherwise Mrs Vos would have found it in the budget. In addition to the additional expenditure that we have made possible, and in addition to the additional purchasing power package that is going to translate into the spending question, I am not going to spend extra money ad hoc because the Commission suddenly wants to do so. Six months ago, we were warned that we had to put our budget in order, and now the Commission is suddenly saying that we need to spend more money. Moreover, with regard to the discussion on current account surplus, this is falling sharply over the next few years. That has to do with our pension funds again. It will fall sharply and it is already falling sharply, for example because of gas exports that have fallen dramatically. This kind of information also seems to have to be passed on to the Commission. Then they can understand why the Netherlands, as a trading country with a place like Rotterdam, has such a large surplus on an current account. In addition, they can see the changes that are going to take place there in the coming years. Moreover, that is another discussion, because then more money from the budget will have to be invested by the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u126	Sometimes it seems to be a bit of an election night. I would like to go back to the heart of the debate. The Minister has said at a number of times this evening that he would like to give a more detailed picture of pension funds in relation to investment. I think that is an interesting idea, because now more than 85% of the investments of Dutch pension funds have been made abroad. There are good reasons for that, too. What strategies does the Minister see for himself to "encourage" these pension funds, which are his own words to invest more in the Netherlands, in those big, social projects that the Minister and Mrs Vos talked about? What am I supposed to think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u127	We have talked a lot about this with pension funds in recent years. They're doing more than that. There have been a number of initiatives, both in the area of sustainability and in the area of SMEs. Funds have been set up in which pension funds participate. From this, investments are financed or loans granted. In addition, the pension funds have told us that the important part of the issue is the organisation of the projects. I've been talking about that before. It's not their expertise. A classic example in this area is energy saving in school buildings. That is a huge organisational issue. It is a financing issue, but mostly an organisational issue. Who is going to organise this and who is going to bring these projects together and make them investmentable for the pension funds? That is the point we want to address. Furthermore, pension funds have said that they consider it important, especially in the case of larger projects, for the government to participate. That is always pushing and pulling, because they prefer that we give a guarantee on all investments. And then the guarantees on my budget come up again. Mr Ester is also very critical of this. It's possible, but always in moderation. Then maybe we'll join in a little bit, where that's necessary. But of course we cannot take over all the risks and let all the returns go to the private parties. However, that will all come to pass. However, it sometimes makes sense to be able to invest, so as to draw investors across the line. That requires an investment bank with a balance sheet. I do not think that the government should make such risky and risky investments from a departmental budget. That doesn't fit with a departmental budget. But it can be done from an investment bank the State is a shareholder of. That is how we are looking at pension funds. On the points of investment and investment, and on the question of whether the State can participate, we are prepared to take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u128	Mind if I interrupt, Minister? This also applies to members. We have planned the debate as a whole until 11.30 p.m. to 11.45 p.m. The debate is extremely important, but if we continue in this way, I fear it will be very late. How much longer do you think you'll need, Minister? After that, the Secretary of State will speak. And then we get the second term. I hope we won't all be able to celebrate my birthday later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u129	That is our objective, Mr President! We'd like to tie that up with a good glass shortly after midnight. Mr President, I am really trying, but so many questions have been asked. Listening to the Chamber in the first term, I really noticed how many subjects have been mentioned over the full breadth of cabinet policy. It went from pensions to public health and every sector in between. We can do that, because we all have these issues in the budget. But, yeah, it's gonna take time. I'll try to do it faster, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u130	It is also an appeal to the Chamber to try to keep it somewhat compact. I understand that it's all very important and I think it's all very important. Everyone thinks so. But I don't think it's a good idea to stay busy until 3:00 or 4:00 tonight. Mr Van Apeldoorn is looking enthusiastically, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u131	Mr. President, I'm going to speed up. I think that's all we can do. A question has been asked about the General Court of Auditors. The General Court has said that the cabinet should better evaluate its measures, reforms and cuts. Do they deliver the intended savings and what are the economic effects? Together with the Court of Auditors and the CPB, we are going to look back at this. That is quite complex, if you do not start to monitor exactly and so on. But we may be able to do so on a number of issues, and we may be able to learn lessons from this for the future. I'll get back to the Chamber on that. Several questions have been asked about policy evaluation. Can the other planning agencies also be involved in or co-advising the budgets on Prinsjesdag? They do this in part, but in part they do it in a different rhythm. Of course, think of the CPB, with the Vice-President, the Macro-Economic Recognition. Other planning agencies have other documents that just appear at different times. I don't want to go in there either. There is, of course, a discussion about broadening the concept of prosperity and reporting on it. That's in full swing. I have already mentioned the falling debt that Mr Schalk mentioned. Mr Van Strien thought that this happened with tricks. I tried to understand why economic growth is a trick, but apparently that's the rhetoric he chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u132	Very briefly, Mr Van Strien. And Mr Schalk may well be. I would have driven it back with my eyes in his chair, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u133	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I have mentioned a number of tricks and I have also mentioned a number of aspects which have 'automatically' led to a temporary reduction in the budget deficit. What the Minister mentioned was not classified by me in the category of tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u134	That's good. Moreover, I do not think that the reduction of the still large portfolio of financial participations is a trick. Every now and then, a billion dollars will come in and that amount will indeed go to the state debt. The public debt is partly this way because we have had to nationalise banks. That just cost a lot of money. The public debt rose from 40% to around 70% during that period. Partly because we sell ABN shares and other shares, the government debt goes down. We're heading for 62% now. So that's fast. That's not a trick either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mr President, the time I am using now is going to run from my second term, otherwise I would say it later. I did a little digging: on page 63 it says that this year's public debt was 63.4% and it goes to 62.1%. I wasn't right when I said it was only 1%. It was 1.3% a year. But that's still not very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u136	Sometimes it makes more sense to look at the realization figures. At present, estimates are being reported by reality on all fronts. The realization figures are that in the last few years, in which we have just identified the 70%, we will be back at 62% next. That is 7% to 8% in a few years' time. I'll do my best. The division of the labour market is there, and it has not been reduced by the crisis, that is simply a fact. We still have a lot of work to do. The cabinet has taken a number of measures in this area, which are politically very controversial. Every further step we take is also controversial. We really have work to do on that for a further period. Some of them pose as the guardians or ladies of thezzp'ers, but I don't think that's helping the debate. On the one hand, the consequence may be that, in ten years' time, we can see that everyone has protected thezzp'ers, without reducing their vulnerability. On the other hand, it does not benefit the debate to always talk about a kind of homogeneous group of flex workers orzzp'ers. Such a group does not exist, because there are great differences between them. Some are very self-reliant, others are extremely vulnerable. We will have to be more precise, and we will have to take fundamental steps in a subsequent period. I'm in for purchasing power and income inequality. As we know, this year we have invested 1.1 billion more in purchasing power repair. We've done that for several years. Last year this was a slightly smaller amount, about 1 billion, while last year we used the 5 billion package to strengthen their position, especially for workers at the bottom of the labour market, those on small incomes. In addition, we have specifically earmarked EUR 100 million to combat child poverty, which has grown steadily over the years of crisis. So there's reason for that. This 100 million is structuralally higher than the 100 million that we had earmarked for poverty policy through the municipalities since the beginning of the cabinet period. The most important thing is that the coalition partners are very much in agreement that the fight against poverty is done through work. That is why it is so important that we help people to work and that it is now going so much faster. Are we doing relatively good or bad? In Europe, the Netherlands is on a country after the country with the lowest risk of poverty or social exclusion. We still have a comprehensive system of social security and benefits. The Economic and Social Committee is currently investigating poverty policies on the basis of a recommendation from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. This Chamber has received a copy of that recommendation. SCP and Kinderombudsman are or are involved in this. The SZW Secretary of State responded to the SCP report on working poor in the Lower House earlier this year. This is now part of the SER pathway. What happened in terms of income development? Was it fair sharing? Present: income development is a sum of policies and macroeconomic developments that are outside policy. For example, low inflation in recent years has led to a much more positive income development for many households than expected in the government agreement. Working people see that to a greater extent in the higher incomes have benefited greatly from real wage increases and/or low interest rates if they have a strong mortgage. We have always repaired purchasing power and made sure that the bottom can go along with it. That's what you see in the numbers. According to Mr Van Apeldoorn, McKinsey would have shown that the vast majority in the Netherlands have deteriorated in disposable income, while the highest deciel showed an increase. Has income equality become greater or smaller in that period? You can't conclude from McKinsey's figures that income inequality has increased. The gini coefficient, a well-known measure of income inequality, has actually remained stable in the Netherlands in all these years. In 2014, she was equal to the one in 2006, which was around 0.27. The average income development in a deciel does not, of course, say so much about the income development that households go through in such a period, because households move from one deciel to another. That depends very much on what happens to you in your personal life in such a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u137	I have another question about income inequality and fair sharing. It is simply the case that non-working people have actually improved significantly less in percentage terms than those in work. The cabinet will for the first time support the non-working people for the first time this year. But in recent years it has been this cabinet's policy to provide financial support for the workers and, in fact, to do nothing extra for the non-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u138	The cabinet has done a number of things and it has planned a number of things in the government agreement, such as tackling the huge poverty trap from a benefit, for example for single parents, which we have now completely turned to a huge springboard from poverty. If you go to work with a child as a single parent, you're really getting better. These measures are indeed targeted at the workers, and to a large extent at the bottom of the labour market. That's what you see when you split up what happened to purchasing power in recent years. Then you can see that in that period from 2012 to 2017, almost all households have improved on it. Within the group of pensioners, the low-income people have also improved. The highest incomes within the group of pensioners have deteriorated. What is the share of the policy in that? Then you always see within those groups that the lowest incomes are most supported. Indeed, workers have made more progress than non-working people, most of all through purchasing power development, and in it government policy has focused strongly on the bottom, the working poor. We have put many policies on this, including the vast majority of the 5 billion package. Our repair measures have also focused on the inactive, distinguishing between the low-income elderly, who have been consciously and specifically supported, for example with the elderly and the care allowance, and the elderly with a high income. We have indeed made that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u139	Can I say, then, that the cabinet has, in fact, encouraged working poor people in particular, but that people in a benefit situation are much less supported? So there has certainly been a great difference. Furthermore, the cabinet has helped the people who absolutely didn't need it, the higher incomes, even though these people are already incredibly good with all kinds of cyclical developments. Should this additional support for higher incomes not have been used to reduce income disparities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u140	When it comes to the rent supplement, we have made sure that the bottom is protected every year. However, the increase in purchasing power for higher incomes has been higher as mentioned above because of wage developments. If you're a cabinet, you're gonna have to step in very hard to rob it off every year. We have made sure that everyone could come along and that the big bottleneck of getting benefits into work and being able to save themselves on the labour market with a low income is a lot of money allocated to targeted measures. Sometimes that happened with the support of GroenLinks. That was a conscious choice. If you appeal to me that I have done more for the workers at the bottom of the labour market, that is absolutely true. That is a conscious choice of this cabinet. We do not want working poor. We want people to be encouraged and helped to get out of benefits, get into work and support themselves. We have spent a great deal of money on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u141	Finally, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u142	The cabinet did indeed provide additional tax support for high incomes, for example by extending the third disc. This was particularly the case last year with the 5 billion reduction package. Why didn't the cabinet say this year: we're gonna fix this and make sure that the beneficiaries, who are so left behind, get some extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u143	Mr Roemer and Mr Klaver really missed the point when they came out just before Princess Day. They have said that a large part of the 5 billion ECU I believe even 3.5 billion ECU would have gone to the highest income. This isn't true. It's really wrong. I do not have the overview with me now, but the vast majority of these measures have gone to the bottom of the labour market. Reference was made to the Prime Minister's promise on the €1,000 employment discount. A very large proportion of workers, especially at the bottom of the labour market, have received much more of this reduction. This also applies to the majority of the middle groups, and for them the reduction in working time has been greatly increased. If you appeal to me that I have supported the workers at the bottom of the labour market, I say quite frankly: yes, we have. That was a conscious choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u144	This is really the last time, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u145	Just a correction, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns what the Minister has actually done. I believe that from the 5 billion, 1.6 billion has gone to the highest incomes. That's what happened. Was that necessary? Shouldn't this money have been used for the people at the bottom? Why doesn't the Minister fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u146	That package really saw the functioning of the labour market. It was hard. We believe that this was widely shared; in any case, the House of Representatives has done so that the burden on labour in our country is too high. We were able to release 5 billion for this at that time. We had hoped to give this a flywheel in a larger tax review and to increase it to 15 billion. That was not possible, but the 5 billion is still justifiable in substance. The measure focuses specifically on the functioning of the labour market and to a large extent on the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u147	I will be brief; fortunately, Mrs Vos has already made many points. I'm just gonna get to McKinsey's numbers. The Minister is right to say that they are averages of income groups of decilators. This does not say everything about the real income developments of real individual households. McKinsey says in footnote 50 of his report that research shows that social mobility between income actors is relatively low. This indeed indicates what has happened to large groups. The cabinet has its own figures and I have seen them in the answer to my questions and it says that 58% of households in the worst year experienced a decline in their disposable income and 33% in the best year. The best year is 2007, so for the crisis. Could it not be seen, also on the basis of the figures of the cabinet itself, that large groups, concentrated in low and middle incomes, have been left behind, if we note at the same time, as Mrs Vos has just said, that the increase in purchasing power in higher incomes has indeed been strong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u148	I can't confirm that image. Maybe McKinsey took advantage of another period. I have here in front of me the figures of purchasing power development in this cabinet period. You can see that almost all groups across all households have been added on average 5.5% in this cabinet period. This has not all been the result of government policy, but the government has contributed positively to this. The total purchasing power development across all households is 5.5%. In the case of workers, this was indeed higher, 7.9%, and in the case of beneficiaries 2%. The image that McKinsey apparently gives in footnote 50 is not being denied by the realization figures that are collected for us; we do not collect them ourselves. Perhaps we can continue this discussion at another time, because I know that Mr Asscher is going to write a detailed letter to the House of Representatives on exactly this point that is so important for GroenLinks and the SP. What has been the development of purchasing power? How is it distributed among income groups? What part is due to cabinet policy? Mr Asscher is going to send a 'best' letter, as they would say in Groningen. I'll ask him if he'll send these to the First Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u149	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u150	Mr Van Rooijen has asked many questions about the financing of the AOW. I don't know if it's supposed to be here right now. That will be a technical answer; I have a lot of text on it. His argument is that due to the system of tax discounts older people ultimately pay more to the costs of the AOW or to tax. This is really not right. Older people will no longer pay taxes if the employment discount is increased. That's not how the system works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u151	You say you have a very technical story about that. Is it a solution if you put this in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u152	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u153	Can you live with that, Mr Van Rooijen? Otherwise we will have a technical discussion that may be taking place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u154	Mr President, I do not need a technical discussion. However, the Minister's suggestion that I was talking about the AOW debate on the elderly is not correct. I was referring to the fact that, as a result of the system of gross-net AOW premium, 15 billion less is levied. That'll be paid out of the taxes. This minister is about that and not about Social Affairs. On the other hand, I have noted that, of course, the elderly pay part of it. That is a factual finding. I did not want to suggest that I have difficulty with the fact that the elderly pay part of it through taxes. You're gonna have to get a good look at me. All I have said is that there is 15 billion less premium and the Finance Minister has to pay 15 billion. That's not a technique. I am very interested in further explanation, because it saves time. I just wanted to point it out. The Minister also understands that this is only the case, and I note this with the Court of Auditors because of the tax reductions that have flown up, in particular the employment discount and the IACK. The Minister must not go so far as to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u155	After that last remark, I am afraid to say anything more. I'll send you a letter. I'm trying to keep it short, but if I'm accused of going around it, I still have to tell the whole story. I think we'd better send a letter. We do not agree with the reasoning of the Court of Auditors. It is true that part of the financing of the AOW takes place through taxes, but the consequences that are drawn from it must be rejected, especially if it is a secret agreement. The latter was Mr Rooijen's literal text. I find it too suggestive to put this kind of phrase into a question. I'll put this in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u156	I find it difficult for me as the spokesperson of 50PLUS to be put in the mouth something else after I have asked a question. I just asked if there might be a policy behind those uplifted discounts. That's fine. In fact, the AOW premium is very low and more and more taxes are paid out. Of these, the elderly pay at least one fifth, so the elderly pay heavily to their own AOW. That is the fact of the matter. My question is whether there is any policy behind this. My conclusion with the Court of Auditors is that this has been the case for seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u157	Mr President, I am sending you a letter. I'm moving on to pensions. Soon we will have a discussion with the Finance Committee on pensions, the threat of reductions and their system. I have a few comments to make at the moment. Some questions have been asked by Mr Van Rooijen. He asked why no expected return was chosen, both in the calculation of premiums and liabilities. Funds should discount their future liabilities with a risk-free interest rate structure. This means that obligations for future generations must be calculated prudently. In doing so, the funds may dampen the premium with the expected return or the average of the ten-year interest rate, in order to avoid very fluctuating premiums. The choice on the premium side is not prescribed by us. The decline in interest rates has made the gap between risk-free interest rates and the expected return ever greater. But it is up to the social partners to consider this. The ftk works both ways. The ten-year recovery period does not mean that the funds need to be reduced immediately if the level of coverage is below 100%. This means that pensioners still receive a full benefit, whereas the levels of coverage do not actually allow it. That keeps the system in balance as well as possible. But we have to prevent one part from being picked out of there. We've had that discussion before. Mr Van Rooijen also asked if I am prepared to withdraw the ftk or temporarily suspend it in the interests of 10 million participants. I'm not prepared to do that. I don't think that's a good idea. The rules of the ftk guarantee, in the perspective of the cabinet, the accumulated pension assets of all participants in a balanced manner. Pension funds are currently in severe weather. There is a risk that 2017 will have to be reduced. Secretary of State Klijnsma informed members of this last Friday. However, the number of people for whom this threat is imminent is much smaller than the number mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen. I say this explicitly, because I do not want the people listening at home to think that 3 or 10 million people will suddenly be cut back on their pension benefits. There's no way that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u158	I didn't say 10 million people would be cut short. I have said that 10 million participants are involved in the question of possible cuts. That's all it is. I found out from the letter that 2 million people are in danger, of whom only 200,000 are retired. The point is that there are major risks in the longer term. There are major discounts for much larger groups. I have already mentioned this, but I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u159	There are risks, but I note at the same time that the figures are still very moving. For this reason, the Secretary of State stated that it would like to review the situation in January 2017. There is therefore a willingness to consider whether or not the recovery period should be postponed, and to what extent, in order to reduce the impact even further. We'll wait for that moment in January. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the initiative proposal submitted to the House of Representatives. I haven't taken notice of that yet. I understand that this is the basis for the calculation rate. This is an initiative legislative proposal by Mr Krol of 50PLUS. I haven't been able to take notice of that yet. I find it unwise to lay a bottom in the interest rate of calculation, because it would allow us to create a fiction. It depends on where you put that soil, but we should not create fiction by suggesting that interest rates and interest expectations are better than in reality. This creates a transfer of value between generations and shifts the account to the future. That does not seem to me to be the right way forward, but we will continue the debate on this subject on the basis of that bill. Mr Rinnooy asked whether the low interest rate did not give rise to a rethinking of the balance between the first and second pension pillars in favour of a higher AOW. I think that is an interesting economic debate. I was a little concerned that Mr Rinnooy Kan had left us, but I see that he has now moved to another place. The second pillar pension is relatively dependent on developments in financial markets. A lower interest rate makes that pension building more expensive. The first pillar pension is relatively dependent on demographic trends. The return on the first pillar, wage growth, is under pressure from an ageing population. The optimal ratio between these two therefore depends on these factors. With the current interest rate picture, there is much to say to shift the balance to the first pillar. But we must be careful that we do this too opportunisticly on the basis of the current interest rate picture, because that could be different in a year's time. I am in favour of continuing the debate on this issue and of keeping it up to date, especially in the longer term. I come to the last two issues: the financial sector and European issues. I have been asked to learn lessons from the crisis. I think we've done that in many ways. The cabinet first considered that the resilience of financial institutions should be strengthened. This means that one has a better view of one's own risks. The risks in the balance sheet and in the various portfolios must be transparent and transparent, and they must be well priced. On this basis, the balance sheet needs to be built up. We do that in all kinds of ways. There are many rules to properly price and price these portfolios. We also do that at the back by saying: if it goes wrong and you get into trouble, know that you have to bear your own losses or that they have to be borne by your shareholders or bond holders. This also leads to the price of risks in institutions. This core piece was not well invested before the crisis. We have also taken many measures in the area of supervision. We have agreed European capital standards with each other. They're still in full development. There are a number of issues still under discussion in the Basel Committee. But in general, banks across Europe are much better off than they are before the crisis. They have also changed considerably in terms of structure and riskiness. That certainly applies to the Dutch banks. They are much better in terms of balance. A third element, in addition to risk pricing and adjustment of balance sheet and supervision, is the simplicity of products and their transparency. The AFM is very involved in this. We have seen many examples of major social damage caused by misselling to both citizens and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. We're still settling the damage. Think of the usury policies and the interest rate derivatives. They have caused a great deal of damage to citizens and entrepreneurs. It has also seriously damaged society's confidence in banks. That's not something abstract. This is directly linked to the fact that people bought policies in the 1980s and 1990s, on which they only lost money. The same applies to those who, on the advice of a bank, have purchased interest rate derivatives, for which they have subsequently suffered a significant loss. Much has happened in these areas too. I mention the safe products, the focus of the customer and the adaptation of culture. Has the Banking Union been helpful in this respect? Oh, yeah. Mr Van Apeldoorn wondered whether the banking union was successful, as there were problems with the Italian banks and with Deutsche Bank. My point is that, precisely thanks to the banking union, we finally have the problems of the Italian banks on the table. This is because the requirements of the Banking Union are gradually being tightened up and because the ECB is taking up its supervisory role more and more precisely and more strictly. The problems with the Italian banks are not new. They've been around for a long time. These banks face major problems in financing both the asset and liabilities side. Both the method of financing and the quality of the loan portfolio are very vulnerable. But that's what's happening now. Banks are being addressed, banks are being taken over, banks are being recapitalised and portfolios of low-performing loans are being housed in bad banks. This is moving in many areas. It's extremely sensitive. Europe's state aid rules and resolution agreements ensure that the Italian authorities cannot just save those banks. "Here you have money and the problem is solved" would not be the right solution, because the underlying problem lies in the structure and quality of the balance sheet. Extra government money only helps if you don't deal with the underlying problems. Fortunately, in Europe, we have managed to ensure that taxpayers are protected and that banks and their owners and investors have to pay the bill. These are far-reaching processes, but they are now taking place thanks to the Banking Union. Is this banking union over and we're here now? No, a recent report by the European Court of Auditors shows that the ECB needs to take much more control. We are completing the single rulebook, the set of rules. That's about the leverage ratio and bail-in buffers. Many technical subjects are further developed. The European banks must go through this painful process. All national politicians in the Netherlands or in other countries who say "Don't touch those banks, the banks can't do this, only on credit growth," are again trying to protect banks. It's all well-meant, but the effect is not good. We must get our banks through this process of restructuring. I have been asked by the CDA about attracting banks from London and how it interferes with this development. We have a single rulebook that applies throughout the EU. When the British leave the EU, those rules, which they have now all implemented for their banks, could be diverging, falling apart. So there is a very big question as to whether the financial institutions established in London, passport rights, have full, unlimited access to the internal market. In the view of the Dutch cabinet, this can only happen if the British conform to and comply with the rules and standards we have in Europe. We cannot allow them to deviate, to go on a different path, but to keep full access. This affects the question of sovereignty, which is at the heart of the British's choice to leave the EU. Part of that sovereignty will really have to be abandoned if you want to keep full access. Are London institutions interested in the Netherlands? Yeah, we'll see about that in the years to come. Those contacts are there and they're intense. This is partly due to the quality of the Dutch infrastructure and the level of education, but certainly also to the quality of the Dutch supervisor, who has a very good reputation among, for example, American financial institutions. They say: when we go to the mainland, we like to come under the supervision of DNB, a very efficient supervisor with a good name. We're gonna see that in the years to come. The WRR report has written on many of these themes. The cabinet response will be sent to the Chamber in the next few weeks. The core doctrine is that society has actually become too dependent on the financial sector in many respects. These are large risks and the question is whether they can always be understood and borne by those involved in the public sector, households or SMEs. The question is whether we should not reduce these risks, for example by reducing the balance sheet. We will respond to that. The WRR has written a good report with valuable recommendations on many fronts, including capital requirements, culture and behaviour, valuable elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u160	I asked if the Minister would be prepared to include the IMF report. I have explained this point in detail, namely a different treatment of debt financing of investments. This has been introduced in some countries, leading to a significant reduction in the balance sheet. Can the Minister undertake to comment on this aspect of the IMF report in the response to the WRR report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u161	I think it's possible. I say it hesitantly. We're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u162	It seems to have a lot to do with this theme. It's an authoritative report, so it might be good to give that a place. I see the Minister hesitant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u163	The cabinet response is almost complete. He's already passed my desk, and he's going somewhere in the department right now. We'll see how we solve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u164	I'd love to. Otherwise, it can be in a separate letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u165	Sure. It's about how we treat foreign and equity. It is a question of why, if we believe that there should be more risk capital in banks, we should not promote it by fiscal means. That discussion is much broader. We addressed this and said that we wanted to do so in our proposals for a new tax system. Let us not go black and white, but as you know, these proposals have not quite reached the finish line. This theme was included in our broader tax package. In addition to the reforms in the IB sphere and in the local tax area, there was also the issue of debt equity. Those thoughts live with us. The Secretary of State and I are in favour of that. You can see that different European countries are experimenting with this in different ways. In the recent proposals by the European Commission for a common corporate tax, whatever you may think about it, this element was also included. So it's in full swing. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u166	It is good to note that the Minister agrees with the WRR report. We share that with him. I wonder whether he can comment on what he thinks could be the implications of this imbalance between the financial sector and society. What are the implications for the state of the Dutch economy of the fact that this relationship is so out of control? The Groningen professor Dirk Bezemer has stated that all hands are green when it comes to the cyclical dashboard of the CBS and that it is a pity that the CBS does not have a fragileitsdashboard. On the financial basis of the current Dutch growth, there may be something to change. With regard to the vulnerability and dependence of the financial sector, the demand for the report is: what would be the policy implications, including towards a subsequent cabinet period? Does the Minister have any thoughts on that that he can already share with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u167	Of course, a number of initiatives have already been taken. I refer to the gradual reduction of mortgage interest and the action we have taken against the use of derivatives in the semi-public and public sector in response to a number of problems. I mention the many initiatives we have taken in the Netherlands and Europe to reduce the dependence of SMEs on debt financing from bank finance and to broaden the funding gap in SMEs and to increase risk finance. Those are all things that touch this. We shall deal with this in the letter. We have taken many initiatives in the Netherlands on the issue of the dependency of banks on SMEs. For example, there is the Additional SME Financing Action Plan. There are many public resources and the new investment bank will also play a role in this. We are also looking for a broader offer in the financial sector in the Netherlands. For example, AFM and DNB have taken initiatives to give innovative new market players much easier access and to help them get started by not immediately laying down the heavy demands for a full banking license, but allowing them to experiment. There are partial licences and temporary licences so that they can enter a part of the market as they develop. There's a lot of enthusiasm for that. There are dozens of institutions that are currently interested in this: all new players, all small, all hoping to gain a position in that financial market with their specific technology or offerings. This also reduces the vulnerability of the banking system as we traditionally know it. The same applies to the development of a capital market union in Europe. There are a number of initiatives to make it easier for SMEs, for example, to raise capital with corporate bonds or shares. The requirements for this will be reduced for small businesses, so that a market will also be created in Europe, as has been the case in the US for a long time. These initiatives are, to a large extent, now in the hands of the European Parliament. I hope that it will take up the matter more quickly. This brings me naturally to the European themes. Mr Van Strien mentioned large sums of money in relation to Greece and made a direct relationship with the elderly in the Netherlands. The facts are that the total amount of loans to Greece from various institutions under which the IMF is currently at 228 billion. The Dutch share of this money was not allowed to come back to any of them. 16.5 billion, but these are guarantees. It's not like we gave that money. We didn't even borrow it; it was borrowed by major international institutions. Only in the extreme case that loans are simply not repaid at all, which really never happens, would that be the damage for the Netherlands. We're still just dealing with debt. We have the Club of Paris. Countries are then taken there. We may not hear that much from the Paris Club, but it does good work. We still have loans to South American countries from a distant past. They are currently refunded thanks to the Club of Paris. So we are still receiving loans from decades ago that the Netherlands gave to third countries, because the Club of Paris intifies them for us. We report on these risks every year. We have been asked how monetary union is going to proceed. There's been a reference to the Five Presidents' Report. How's that going? As you know, this is a product of the five presidents, including yours truly, which looks ahead to the further development of monetary union. Partly at my insistence, a clear distinction has been made between what we can and must do in the short term and what may be ahead in the longer term. I do not attach any importance to major reflections on the whole of the Union. I myself do not believe in political union. Yes, we work together in many areas and sometimes we do so through European institutions and sometimes intergovernmental, but the development towards a political union suggests that we should transfer important policy areas that we attach great importance to at national level, such as the pension system, the organisation of care and so on, to an economic government for the euro area. The Dutch cabinet is simply not for that. It's not necessary either. What can we do in the short term? We can finish the banking union. It is extremely important for stability in the European Union and to finance economic recovery. We can develop the capital market union and complete the internal market further. As far as I am concerned, we are continuing to work on trade agreements, although their chances have declined considerably. In many areas we can do what we do better. In the longer term, we could take further steps, but this really requires convergence in the euro area, in the economic sense, but also in policy. But as far as I'm concerned, that's really for the future. Under the leadership of national politicians, much needs to be done to address their own policies in the areas of welfare state, the economy and public finances. The convergence process has been stepped up and needs to be relaunched. We are working on this, because the economy in the euro area attracts not only the Netherlands, but also all other countries. There is a return to growth in all countries at present. Greece has had three quarters of economic growth. The budget looks much better. The Greek Government keeps to the agreements, and that has been different in the past. We are talking to the IMF in December about what they need to get back into the third programme. We're definitely not gonna write off any debt. We will then be able to clarify some debt relief measures in the short term. We can therefore talk about what could happen if necessary after the end of the programme in 2018, but it is too early to put concrete amounts on it. That is the development and discussion that is currently taking place with regard to Greece. Mr Van Strien asked about the system of fines. I believe that I have already replied and that he already knew the answer. I had a lively debate with Mr Stiglitz when he was in Amsterdam. The central doctrine of his book is that it is the fault of the euro. That reasoning can then be put up quite strongly. I took him back to the years before the crisis and even to the years before the introduction of the euro. What happened in the years after that? Greece is an interesting example. Mr Van Apeldoorn has just said: yes, but Greece's prosperity has fallen by 25%, so policy has failed. If you go back to the years after the introduction of the euro and what happened afterwards in Greece, you will see that domestic spending, household spending, increased by 40% over that period. In a very short time more money has been spent on consumption. The volume of credit to households and businesses increased with comparable figures over the same period. It just shows that there's been a prosperity boost at that time. Thanks to a low rate of interest, the Greeks of course did not know about it and monetary stability, i.e. cheap money, there has been a wealth boost that was largely based on air. Of this 40% bloated prosperity gap, 25% was indeed lost, mainly because the structure of the Greek economy had improved little or nothing. It'll happen now. That's part of the arrangement in a program. We are funding them for the time being, until the budget is back in order and they are again financially viable, but part of the deal is that the country is making structural changes and improvements. That is the approach in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u168	Do I hear the Minister say that the approach to the structure of the economy in Greece is caused by the introduction of the euro? This structure could also have been improved without the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u169	The latter is certainly true. That is the essence of the debate I had and have with Mr Stiglitz. He brings everything back to the euro and there is really only one argument, namely that countries whose competitiveness is under pressure have lost one instrument from their toolbox by the introduction of the euro, and that is the devaluation instrument. That's just true. A country such as Greece, of course, was able to devalue the drachma at regular intervals. In that case, you will be relatively competitive in relation to other currencies. Italy has done it many times. In other parts of the world it still happens with great regularity. You and I know that this does not fundamentally affect competitiveness. Usually that temporary competitive advantage jump will be gone in no time. Because you're going to import inflation and because you're going to be more expensive, you're gonna lose that competitive advantage in no time. So it's true that this instrument is from the toolbox. Everyone who enters monetary union knows that; all the countries knew that too. This means that the other instruments you have, which are partly in the toolbox of the Central Bank, but which are for the most part in national hands, will have to be used even more vigorously. For example, you need to reform your economy in time to become competitive. If you don't, and if you don't have that other instrument, you're gonna get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u170	Joseph Stiglitz indeed states that an important tool has disappeared from the toolbox with the introduction of the euro, the instrument of devaluation. However, he also puts forward another argument, which was also put forward by another Nobel Prize winner for the economy, Paul Krugman, and many others. He pointed out that the problems encountered not only in Greece, where the budget deficit was indeed too high, but also in other countries affected by the euro crisis such as Spain, Portugal and Ireland, which were partly linked to a budget surplus, stem from the fact that at some point these countries showed a huge trade deficit. When did this trade deficit occur in relation to countries such as the Netherlands and Germany? This was created after the introduction and made possible by the introduction of the euro, as Mr Stiglitz and Mr Krugman's graphs clearly show. I think that is where the fundamental problem lies, also according to Stiglitz's analysis. It's not just about getting rid of that tool from the toolbox. Maybe the minister can reflect on that for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u171	I'd love to. In Ireland and Spain, you really need to look at the economic situation in the period before the crisis. I studied in Ireland in the 1990s. That was before Ireland became booming. At that time, students only talked about migration: not whether they were migrating, but where they were going. After that, Ireland came up hugely. This had to do with tax policy, but also with the euro. Ireland also received the enormous boost of cheap resources. In Ireland, too, the housing market had exploded as a result of a combination of circumstances. If you drive through Ireland now, you'll see all over those white catalog houses. They weren't there in the early 1990s. Everywhere is built and all on credit. House prices have risen tremendously. This is happening again in Dublin. So the risk is reappearing. House prices have risen tremendously and then the housing market collapsed. As a result, the banking sector, where the overdrafting was facilitated, has collapsed and Ireland has an immense public debt. Ireland was not allowed to use bail-in. They're still frustrated about that, and I understand that very well. So you really need to look at the circumstances in the country. What happened at the macroeconomic level in that country? If you only say that it is because of the euro and that it has led to the loss of capital and that those countries had no chance of competing, then you miss the whole situation of the years between the introduction of the euro and the start of the financial crisis. I think you're gonna make a big mistake. I think the national politicians in Ireland understand very well. They know that they need to get the housing market in order and stabilise. They know that they need to make the financial sector healthy and raise credit standards. They have been very busy trying to remove the structural causes, which were indeed in the Irish economy. They now have a growth rate of about 4% a year. The recovery is powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u172	For a moment, I thought the Minister and I were in complete agreement. That would have been nice on this evening. When he outlined developments in Ireland and Spain, I thought it was exactly what I was talking about, namely that bubbles were created in the real estate sector in Spain and in the banking sector in Ireland. These bubbles have also been created by the introduction of the euro, the liberalisation of capital flows within the euro area and the low interest rates. Everyone thought that the euro and the introduction of single currency were irreversible. So the conclusion is that the euro has led to divergence of economies rather than expected convergence. That is exactly the problem we have encountered. So I actually thought we agreed, but then the Minister said that it has little to do with the euro. That got me a little confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u173	Perhaps by my analysis we can approach each other that it is not the euro's fault, but that the euro has led to a large supply of money at extremely low interest rates, in countries that did not have either. That makes them very vulnerable. You can address that with national policy. You can do this just by intervening in the banking sector in good time, which has not happened in these countries, and indeed in the Netherlands. There was heavy overdrafting in households and businesses. There was a huge growth in consumption and much less productive investment in the economy. If that money had been used much more in productive sectors in Ireland and Spain, the structure and growth potential of these countries would have improved structurally. It has, to a large extent, been placed in credit which has subsequently been used for consumption. That bill comes sooner or later. So there has been a vulnerability in these countries, on the one hand, because the instrument is no longer in the toolbox, on the other hand, because there is the temptation of abundant credit possibilities at a low price. Is that addressable? Yes, primarily through national policy, is my position. For the banks, we have now done so jointly at European level. Then I'm really far away with the answer. I have been asked by Mr Ester about the consequences of President elect Trump's policy. It's a little early for that. I follow the papers like you all do. Budgetary policy is expected to be expansionary. Infrastructure programmes are announced and defence expenditure may increase. There would be deregulation. The combination of that kind of thing can lead to much more inflation, it can have interest rate effects, as we already see internationally. I have no final assessment of the structural effects, other than that I note that the American economy was in an extremely good state of affairs. Unemployment was very low for American concepts, but there was also a lot of inequality in society. Of course, addressing this through major budgetary expansion has the risk that the economy will become overheated and that there will be an economic crisis at some point. The question is whether this has eliminated the inequality at the bottom of American society, or whether it has created new risks that arise in the next crisis. Asking the question is answering it. Mr De Graaf and Mr Rinnooy Kan have spoken about the rise of protectionism, which is a real threat to the Netherlands. I think we all agree that trade restrictions for a trading country are a threat to potential growth and therefore to employment. At the same time, we are not in favour of unbridled free trade, so we always do so with as much of our standards and standards as possible in many areas. We always see to that in the negotiations. At the moment, we are not expected to make much progress. However, the cabinet remains attached to it. All the uncertainty in the international environment leads me to say that we are wise to continue with the various reforms, so that the Netherlands is even more resistant to shocks from abroad. The same applies to budgetary policy. There too, we must prepare ourselves for shocks in the international economy. We have work to do there. The CDA, the VVD, all talked about low interest rates and expectations. We have asked both the CPB and the Dutch Bank to analyse the long-term low interest rates and their impact on the economy, public finances, the financial sector and pension funds. They will report to us on this in spring 2017. The CPB has now made enormous efforts to pass on the electoral programmes, so the brakes have been put on and expectations have been dampened as to how quickly this could be achieved. People are working on other things. I expect that recent developments in the international economy will also lead to an adjustment of monetary policy. However, the ECB is independent, so I don't know. I'm not going over it either. However, when you see how it is developing and what part of the cycle of monetary policy we are in, you understand that there will come a time when we will have to discuss with each other how we are going to reduce it after building up and expanding monetary expansion. As is the case in the United States, I expect the debate in Europe to be more and more about this. We will send a cabinet response to Mr Omtzigt's own-initiative paper, which Mr Van Kesteren spoke about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u174	On this last point. In line with Mr Van Kesteren's anecdote "I asked for ice, but this is ridiculous": at some point the Minister says that there is a limit to monetary policy as we now have, and that we need to cut it down. Is consideration being given to the repercussions of such an episode on the Netherlands and how this phasing-out process should take place between European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u175	Yes, but before we start the debate on the method of phasing out and the moment of phasing out, and so on, it is really up to the European Central Bank. The House of Representatives constantly asks me what I think of Draghi's policy and when I intend to intervene. It can't be done, they think. The cabinet really holds on to the line that it is laid down in treaties, by the way, according to good Dutch tradition. Monetary policy is in the hands of central bankers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u176	Mr. Chairman. I will do my best to keep up the momentum, because I do not think I am the only one on the declining part of the energy curve. A lot of senators have asked questions about the DBA Act. I think it would be appropriate to deal with this first. Several questions have also been asked about simplification. I'll deal with that. And there is also the category "mixed." I will answer the questions as many as possible in the order of the speakers so that everyone will recognize where I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u177	Do you think that'll work in about an hour if there aren't too many interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u178	I'd like it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u179	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u180	However, that depends very much on the way the debate is going. I'll start with the DBA Act. I have heard several speakers on this subject. Mr Rinnooy Kan recalled that he warned that the law would lead to uncertainty. That's what happened. He was absolutely right about that. He would have seen that right. I shall come back to that uncertainty in a moment, because that is a very special kind of uncertainty that we really need to deal with. I do not think that Mr Rinnooy Kan will agree with me on this. First, let me remind you what the purpose of the whole was. The aim of this law was, of course, to counter false self-employment. Apparent self-employment was a concern, not only of the cabinet, but much wider. The implementation of the law has been underway for a few months now. We have been working on this for more than six months. It has been shown that in any case there is also evident false self-employment. So that false self-employment was not a mirage; it really exists. Over the last few months, I have spoken very intensively with representatives of contractors and contractors, but also with a lot of large companies and with specific types of contractors. There were clients, large organizations, who told me, for example, that after this law came up and so even before it was adopted, they themselves started their personnel policy. They have looked at their own personnel policy and have come to the conclusion that they had a lot ofzzp'ers who had actually been cycling to the company every day with the breadbox on the luggage carrier for many years and did work there that did not look like completed assignments anymore. These directors of large companies came to tell me that they actually felt that these titles were being mixed up. I also talked to school administrators who said they were even considering not hiring regular teachers anymore. Whatever you think of that, according to the standards of many, there will be examples that you think are very similar to employment. Let us note that false self-employment is in any case brought to light by this law. The percentages vary from one research to another, but if I take the external studies, it is estimated that about 92% to 95% of the zzp'ers are in the business of about one million people, many of whom have no model agreement. But those are numbers that don't tell the whole story. Those are high percentages, but that's not the whole story. Indeed, as several senators have stressed, the undesirable side effect exists in terms of uncertainty. At the beginning, this uncertainty had the character of: we do not yet know it. That also made sense, because the Tax Administration had just begun to clarify that. The thoughts had been touched by the VAR ten years in the forget book, so the Tax Administration had to dust this off and hire people who knew about it. So at first it was the logical uncertainty you get when you change something. However, I have seen this uncertainty change a bit in colour over the last few months. The uncertainty has gotten a different jacket, because many clients and contractors did get security from the Tax Administration. But when they were given that assurance, that was the certainty in the sense of: what you do in your business model, cannot be outside a service relationship, many were very sincere and with good intentions at all. They didn't recognize themselves in that at all. This has led some to concerns, some to amazement, others to indignation and others to action. Call it uncertainty, but it was a very understandable uncertainty. That was an uncertainty of a different type than I and many had anticipated at the beginning. What was it about? The judgment on who is an employee and who is a self-employed person is rooted in the Civil Code. This is rooted in two passages in it that have been unchanged since 1907. These are two key concepts that we have not addressed for 10 years. Many had even forgotten these concepts. The first concept is "free replacement." On the basis of the concept of "free replacement" in the Civil Code, the lower part of the labour market is actually more often than expected given the "self-employed" judgment, whereas many did not expect it and did not wish it. And on the basis of the second concept of "government relations," the "service relationship" is given more often than expected in the upper part of the labour market, whereas many in this Chamber I myself belong to these people would recognize them as self-employed. They acquire orders and invest in themselves. They invest in marketing and recruit. They also have all kinds of changing assignments. The conclusion of many, yes, too many; that is where the cabinet and I belong, too, is that the concepts that we had not seen for ten years and which date back to 1907, no longer fit in with today's conception of industrial relations. These concepts no longer fit in with those we consider self-employed and those we believe to be employed. That also comes back to the discussion. These are, on the one hand, people who are able to manage themselves very well, but who are classified by this law under the concept of'service association'. On the other hand, these are people whom we will all call'more vulnerable' here in the Chamber, but who are covered by the term 'entrepreneur', although sometimes they do not do so of their own free will. That uncertainty has therefore changed colour and the bottleneck has become much sharper by the DBA Act. The concepts have not emerged in this way in the preparation of the process I have undertaken with my partners, the contracting and contracting organisations. This wasn't part of the ibo either. It didn't come up there. It is true that after ten years we have turned on the fluorescent tubes and then we have seen that the concepts that were unchanged no longer fit. Then there's only one conclusion. If you are in the process of maintaining a legal framework that is too many people think doesn't fit at all, you have to fix it first. The approach of this cabinet is quite clear that you have to solve the problem first. That now means: stop, that Law DBA and its implementation must make a pass on the spot. First, we need to work on the framework. In the meantime, all kinds of people have broken their minds about that framework. The committee that was set up following the debate in this Chamber was able to ask for the mandate just in time to look specifically at it. It concludes that the concepts no longer fit and also that the concepts are not manageable, because they give too little clarity in themselves. The pass at the place means that in any case until 1 January 2018 or as much longer as necessary, we stop it. We are preparing a repair of the concept framework. That's not a little thing in itself. This has been in the Civil Code since 1907, so that's something solid. But it would be very desirable, and that is why I have put it in the letter, that those repair results are available in the formation, because then you can do something with it. Again, it's not a little thing. This is something we need to get into with the parties we encounter in the polder. However, it is intended to have that available for the next cabinet period, so that no time is wasted and we can proceed with it. This means that in the period up to 1 January 2018 we do not see any fines and post-taxes and that the zzp'ers and the clients should be able to work with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u181	Mr. Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u182	That was the line I'd love to follow, but I've made one exception. A question has been asked about this exception, in my view by Mr Rinnooy Kan, who is now standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u183	I have already mentioned his name, but you probably haven't heard it in the glow of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u184	I would like the Secretary of State to speak, because the subject is important enough. I am conducting this discussion in a sense without much joy, because I do not think anyone is looking to identify the problems that have now been identified. In my opinion, it's a little deeper than the Secretary of State suggests. I agree with him that the starting point for this whole discussion was the unclear demarcation between self-employed and employee. That was the key point, as has already been mentioned in the parliamentary debates. He is now focusing on these two examples. I very much agree with him that further study is needed. Long before that, in a motion tabled by my group chairman, Thom de Graaf, and adopted by a majority, we asked the Cabinet to formulate its own view on more balanced relations between self-employed and workers in our labour market. I see this particular issue as one of its ingredients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u185	Me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u186	In my opinion, but not only in my opinion, this motion has still not been carried out. It is desirable that at least one small step should be taken in this direction, but that is certainly not the whole story. That's one ingredient, but it's not the only one. The Boat Committee to which the Secretary of State referred identified in its report a fundamental tension in the working methods introduced in the DBA Act. I quote from the report that I have with me: these two requirements, namely ex ante assessment and a civil assessment, cannot actually be met at the same time. Further on, it says that the DBA Act, combined with those general models, leads to a system that does not meet and cannot meet, I add to it the ambitions and objectives that were set when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u187	Can you put your question, Mr Rinnooy Kan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u188	That, in my opinion, is the essence. The second issue, the inherent problem of the DBA Act, is not addressed in what the Secretary of State has said so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u189	I think I did, but apparently too short. Boat says that this framework, if we apply it unchanged in this way, is too complicated to implement. In the meantime, these two concepts have become ten factors which still need to be weighed in case law. It is clear that these must be reduced to something manageable. This means that we need an applicable, more limited set of criteria, just to philosophize freely. They have to be in line with what we think about that. When a director who has to be somewhere at a certain time can suddenly no longer be self-employed, that is in conflict with how people think about the concept of "self-employed." It is a question of linking up with the views of the labour market, reviewing these concepts and translating them into something that can also be operational. The report by the Boot Committee also states that returning to the VAR is not a solution. There is no reason to abandon model agreements, but we need to work on that concept framework to make it manageable. The model agreements have been kept very simple. They're general agreements. Boat thinks that they offer insufficient security. It is clear that we must go to something that is more manageable, but provides certainty. This is all connected, and that is rooted in those two concepts of the Civil Code. I agree that this has to be part of repair, so to speak. It's also true that there was a motion. The ibo continues. When you talk about the general understanding of the relationship between self-employment and employment, this can relate to a variety of things, such as tax incentives, the form of insurance and the rights to social security that you give. These differences extend over a very wide area. It's obvious that we need to have a new moment of reflection on the ibo. I do not see it happening that in the short time until the elections we will come to a conclusion on exactly what needs to be done with the ibo, but that is a solid piece of work and that is just on the table. I had the next concern in the beginning. There was one in this room, but I joined it. We may have a policy of enforcement, but if the incentives are the same, the question is whether enforcement will be viable. Frankly, I have been surprised that the enforcement envisaged is already so effective, while the tax difference remains the same. The stimulus is enormous and at the same time we see that a lot of large companies are sitting on the safe side out of caution. I have overestimated one uncertainty and underestimated the other and with me those who have prepared it. Even the makers of the ibo have shared this with me. It's important to do it integrally. There will have to be broad agreements on this in a battle of formation. The ibo is decent work, but nothing has yet been prepared for this. That must be done quickly now. That should be ready. This is so essential. We can see it's crooked here. It is called uncertainty in the outside world, but there is also a great deal of dissatisfaction and concern about the framework laid down in the law. We don't recognize ourselves in our own law anymore. That's what happened. We've lost track of this one for ten years, and now we see it again and it looks ugly. Too many people have happened. That goes symmetrically at the top and at the bottom. It is clear that these groups do not overlap. The people who worry about one are not the people who worry about the other. But there are plenty of people who are worried because entrepreneurs are being created at the bottom and you wonder if they are entrepreneurs, while people who are clearly like entrepreneurs are being pushed into employment. I agree with that integrated approach. The work that needs to be done now concerns that concept framework. I would hurry to do that, but it has to be thorough. When we come back with a legal framework that is not accepted, it is not going to work. A specific question has also been asked about the evildoers. Let me go into the background to that. I have clearly taken the view that we should not apply that concept framework until it has been repaired. We're gonna have to wait in place for a while. In the last few weeks, I've become convinced that you shouldn't rule out the real evil ones, leaving in the middle who they are. Then you run into the situation that you can no longer maintain on situations that you find really socially unacceptable and that raise social anxiety or discord. There may be situations in which parties obviously go so far outside the legal framework that you cannot allow that to happen. This is not about an independent professional who is murmured about the relationship of authority, but about a limited number of clients who are supposedly familiar with the Tax Administration. I asked if they could be counted on the fingers of two hands. The IRS thought we'd come a long way. It is often people who have been competing unfairly for years and who have competitors who come to me and ask me to do something about it, because they are tired of it. They are often at the bottom of the labour market. In this group there is a risk of exploitation and the concepts of "evident design" and "greater debt," bordering on fraud. Those are the issues at stake. It goes a little against my desire for clarity. I would rather have said: this is it now. I would just like to make it very clear that we are going to end this now and first work on the conceptual framework. But excluding these kinds of cases altogether is not entirely justified. You have to keep a certain margin to get the people who are doing things that we wouldn't want to defend here to put on the ticket. It is therefore not a question of the regular cases that we have all seen in the media and which have expressed their deep concern to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u190	It's clear and enlightening to me. For the sake of clarity: do I hear the Secretary of State now say that it concerns up to ten cases? Well, that's important. It may be eleven, but the point is that these concepts always depend on definitions and therefore have some meaning. This also responds to Mr Rinnooy's concern that we may have that discussion again, with all the uncertainty that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u191	Mr De Grave is right to question me now, and I have done so with the Tax Office, with roughly the same words: is the order of magnitude ten, one hundred or one thousand? The order of magnitude is ten. Therefore, it is not intended to get some revenue from fines through a back door. That's not the point. There must be peace now, but a single case can cause unrest. We shouldn't have that either. But in principle it must be stopped until we are satisfied with each other and in society again with a new framework of concepts. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u192	I assume that the cabinet is going to be completely clear about this. Mr Rinnooy Kan, among others, may ask an additional question. I have another point. The crazy situation is that the Secretary of State is not going to enforce the new law, except for a dozen exceptions. What's he doing with all these other situations? We had this law right to deal with bogus constructions. Looks like the Secretary of State has nothing in his hands right now. The VAR has been abolished. The new law will not be enforced. So we don't have anything right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u193	There's no new law. What needs to be enforced is a very old 1907 law. It's never changed. The only thing we have made possible is enforcement, precisely with the aim of combating false self-employment. There was also concern about this; there is such a false self-employment. However, I would like to say very clearly: it makes no sense or is even socially irresponsible to maintain if we find together that the acceptance of that old law, which we once again dust down after ten years, is no longer sufficient. If we simply do not agree with our own law, we also need to stop enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u194	But the Secretary of State has abolished the VAR. At least that instrument did something. The Secretary of State is extremely critical of it, but I think it would have been better to maintain the VAR. What the Secretary of State had, he abolished, and he's not going to uphold the law that's there. I find that a strange situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u195	No, it's not like that. We had and we have labour law. It's exactly, but exactly, the same thing. All the VAR did was exempt one of the two contracting parties from fines. The old labour legislation is still there. That hasn't changed at all. I'm not gonna fine either of the contracting parties in the same way as the VAR did, and I'm not gonna rehearse them because we're gonna need some time to fix things before we can move on. We've had ten years in which there was no enforcement. The IRS simply bumped into a wall. The intention is, of course, to combat false self-employment, but what we really think is false self-employment. We are now fighting things that we no longer find false self-employment with each other, but real independence. We shouldn't do that. That really undermines the basis of support. Then we maintain something that we no longer support. And you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u196	The Secretary of State does not have to convince me of this, because my group was not in favour of the proposed law at all. But it's clear. I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u197	I am, of course, pleased that the Secretary of State has finally come to the conclusion that the rethinking of which has been requested for so long and which should have preceded the DBA Act is now taking place. In the meantime, of course, it is right for the Secretary of State to say: we want to continue to fight the most serious cases of manifest abuse in the interim. He certainly won't find us in front of him. I am concerned about the basis on which that is going to happen. I am now basing myself on Annex 4 of his own letter, which summarises the whole principle of policy in a single line. I am in no way convinced that anyone who tries to understand that rule and tries to understand the jargon will indeed recognize the tone and interpretation that the Secretary of State is now giving it. I would therefore ask him to formulate the description of the target group, whether it is ten or eleven, in such a way that there can be no further unrest and uncertainty about this, because we want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u198	I share that goal very much. I am also aware that, as I repeat the history with this little exception, I am doing in firmer words than I am in such a boring annex. Anyway, the spoken word counts. I don't know what to add to it either. This is the point behind it. I think it's getting complicated to pour this with mathematical accuracy somewhere, because it's simply also a matter of judgment from the professionals who are working on it. It is complicated to describe these ten cases with mathematical correctness. I don't think I can do that. The next anecdote goes an unexpected way, but I use the bizarre example because it fits. Many members probably know the following statement by the Supreme Court in the United States from 1964. In America, film censorship was possible. Certain films were banned, i.e. pornographic films. At some point, a French film, according to European standards, was produced, and one had to decide what one thought of it. The case ended up at the Supreme Court, which was forced to rule on what pornography is. It's a very famous statement. Eventually, the judge said, "I know it when I see it." It proved impossible to capture this idea in mathematical rules. Now I do not want to compare it in any way with this, but I do say this: my firm words just now say exactly what I mean, but I will never be able to deliver the mathematical formula. The only alternative to complete clarity is then: we are not going to tackle the ten. I wouldn't recommend that only myself, but also the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u199	Mr Rinnooy Kan, I have just heard: omnis comparative claudicat. I'm sure you can jump in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u200	I find the Secretary of State's metaphor instructive. The nervousness of the other film directors, whether or not they are porn directors, can hardly be compared with the nervousness of the group to whom I address myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u201	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u202	My concern is not so much that the ten or eleven do not recognize themselves in the text written by the Secretary of State, which I would not require mathematical precision. My concern is that tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands fear that they will fall into that group as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u203	We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u204	... and that another argument is taken from it to deny the opportunity ofzzp'ers. I therefore urge the Secretary of State to put the text in such a way that the latter cannot happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u205	I will check with Mr Rinnooy to see what kind of product I could deliver to do that, other than the words I have just spoken. I think the explanation is clear, and it is now part of the legal history. Mathematical precision isn't gonna do it. With more spoken conviction neither. I'm just looking. I share the endeavor. If it happens again that benevolent entrepreneurs, who are suffering from an outdated conceptual framework that we are updating, think that they are being caught for something that they are not caught for and for which they should not be caught, then we are doing wrong. So I share the ambition of the Chamber. However, at some point my shop is empty, in the sense that I can formulate it as precisely as possible, but I have just done so. So let me see how I can still help Mr Rinnooy to better express our mutual concern. I, too, have an interest in it. It's a common goal. So I am using the helpline on how we can clarify this, within the framework conditions I have indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u206	I continue to think it is a very flawed legislative process. It's a bad law. The Secretary of State called the calamity a little over himself, in the sense that the problem definition and proportionality were vague and that he had no conceptual framework. He didn't have a vision for thezzp'er either. That process has been derailed in the field in a slight chaos. The uncertainty is great. Moreover, it will not be much less by suspending enforcement in the period envisaged by the Secretary of State. My group is concerned, seeing what is happening in the field. There is great discontent, great uncertainty in the field. We also note that both employers and employees have dropped their support for the legislative proposal and the underlying ideas in the past week. In addition to what Mr Rinnooy Kan has said, I think it is extremely important that the Secretary of State should use his story to explain it very well to all those tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands. They're looking at what's gonna happen and what the Secretary of State is gonna do. I understand the Secretary of State's story, but that story needs to be communicated much better to the large numbers ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands. I'd like to give that to you. Communicate very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u207	I'm happy to support the Secretary of State. I think he's been very clear in the last 20 minutes. This issue has also become a direct legal history. As long as the law is in place and as long as the Tax Administration, under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, believes that the real evildoers should be able to be caught, even if the Secretary of State uses a different term, this is of principle for the purposes of the tax morale and the task of the Tax Administration. This Chamber, the Senate, says tonight that the good guys are almost all to be protected, but I do believe that the Tax Administration, under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, has the right to do its legal duty from the point of view of tax morality, law enforcement and prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u208	I support this line, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u209	It's okay to stand a little distance with a stretched arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u210	Mr President, when I spoke to the troops as Minister of Defence, I developed a certain volume. I'm not so used to having to speak quietly and calmly in this serene company. I'll try to do that anyway. I understand and I support the Secretary of State's line. What the Secretary of State says now is very important. It is also very important how the Tax Administration deals with this in communication. Because that's not always great. There's uncertainty. People then ask the Tax Office for security, but that is often very difficult and difficult. That is what we need to think about. People don't know. People might hear it tomorrow. I have some experience with discussions about medical specialists and entrepreneurship. I can tell the Secretary of State quite a bit about that, but the point is that the clarity and the explanation he is giving now must be given to the field in the same way. There should be no new uncertainty there. I'd be happy to give that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u211	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u212	The Secretary of State asked me for advice and guidance. I do not doubt his good intentions, but communication cannot be limited to this one sentence and a piece of legal history that not everyone who is active in the field is looking at every day. If anything is needed, this should arise in the interaction between the Secretary of State, the Tax Administration, and the large group of directly involved. There are many means of communication that can support him in doing so. The Secretary of State really doesn't need my help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u213	Along that line, I fully agree with both speakers, because they call on me to go to the millionzzp'ers and to make it clear how many clients we are doing this now. The message is easy to understand. We are used to it for ten years without enforcement. That concept is understandable. It must be clear that it is now standing still until we have repaired the concept framework. During that time no fines are imposed and there is no enforcement. I will try, in communication with the words I have just used, to make it clear to everyone that the evildoers are really concerned with a few notorious exceptions, which we all think should be thrown on the ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u214	The Secretary of State asked for a conceptual framework. In my constituency, we usually take the Ten Commandments. You can actually hear them coming by. When it comes to abuse and crime, the kind of typologies the Secretary of State used in an earlier instance, take that framework. When people go against that, you have to deal with them. That is my first point. Then there's a practical point. There's a lot of uncertainty. The Secretary of State has now taken it away six months in advance. Enforcement would otherwise start on 1 May 2017, but it will be stopped. That issue is being postponed for seven months. Will the Secretary of State also state six months in advance whether or not he will move forward on 1 January 2018, or not? Otherwise we will have uncertainty just before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u215	A good and fair question. My only contribution to world peace can be to draw up the conceptual framework as soon as possible. What happens to it after that is in the hands of more people than just me. It is also stated in the letter "Just to communicate at that time what a possible new extension would be if there were to be. However, that is up to the people who sit there. They know the concept framework. They know what distance still needs to be bridged. They shall again provide assurance of any extension. The letter talks about the whole of 2017 or as much longer as it takes. This is to be determined when the conceptual framework is to be established. It could be different that we have to implement something in too much haste again. We are now talking about a different concept framework. There is a lot of talk about "that law," but that is the law of 1907, with the case law. I'm trying to change that law for the first time in 100 years, but it takes some time. The best summary of this debate and how to proceed with the issue of the DBA came from Mr Van Kesteren. I don't see him, though. He's gone, but he left a piece of advice. His advice was to think carefully about this. A more concise summary is not possible. I hear he's not gone, by the way. Mr Van Kesteren raised a question on simplification. Mr Ester's question preceded that, although not in time, but in logic. He looked at me hard and said it didn't get that much with the attic. First of all, let me say to Mr Ester that, of course, a lot of shoulders are needed to carry such a reform and that his party was at least until the very last, for which I am grateful. After all, that always takes some courage and perseverance. There's always things in that package that you don't like. Mr Ester's party was there until the very last, and I am still grateful for that. But if you really think that something like this can be put on the road in one year and implemented, you need to study the change in tax systems a little longer. I think the basis for this should be built up slowly. What you need for that is perseverance. That's what we have to do with each other here. What you need for that is a good time. A formation could just be one of those moments. And what you need for that is something for everyone. The possibilities are also wide enough for that. So that's what we have to do. The first seven election programmes that I saw feature solid reform paragraphs and firm simplification passages. Fine, that's the way. That's how we're gonna do it with each other. I'll keep going. I don't mind being reminded of that attic 10 or 100 times if necessary, because I'm on the verge of it. Point by point! It has to be. Everyone here knows that, and across the street, they all know that. I'll go on until everyone gets sick of it, because it's necessary. This year we have also more than in other years taken quite a few boxes off the attic. With the tax plan package, 150 people can do other things at the Tax Office. Yeah, that's a lot more complicated than that. Europe commits us to this and to that. That's all true. But if we don't do something, it'll just get more complicated. We must therefore continue to strive for this. I note, however, that the other side has already decided to return two of the boxes I had taken from the attic to the attic. The same speaker also welcomed this. So you see again that the resistance is in all of us. It is a difficult process. It's no different than that. There's a fight to do that, and I'd love to do that. Mr Van Kesteren asked the question: can we, because I have read that the Tax Administration cannot do all this at once? No, the General Court has said this in all its thoroughness. Let me just say my opinion on this. No, not everything can and cannot be done at the same time. But we know that our happiness is that simplifications can be implemented considerably more easily than making things more complex. Frankly, a lot of things that are politically fallen down here because they cause differences between groups are complex things that you can effortlessly get out of them. The removal of instruments is generally possible. The removal of instruments could also be one of the most important elements of reform. So let us not restrict ourselves too much in the proposals. I thank the authors of the seven election programmes for these passages and I encourage everyone to continue. It is only when things get much more complicated that we have a serious problem. I see happy noding here. Well, well, well, well, well. Thanks have a face! I'm answering the questions in order now. Mr Van Kesteren asked me whether the estimate of the pension in its own right was realistic. He undoubtedly asked this because there were estimates of such maneuvers earlier, which turned out to be unrealistic in retrospect. Here comes the technical explanation, but very succinct. The relevant estimate for the self-employed pension is the estimate of the income framework. That's not, unlike how it sounds, what extra tax revenue comes in in that period. That buy-back period lasts three years and then comes in somewhere between 2.5 and 3 billion. That's not the estimate. The estimate is what the difference is between continuing to have a self-employed pension and ending it now, and converting it into one structural amount via discount rates. That amount is not at all in the order of several billions. That amount is 62 million a year. That amount is mainly driven by the withdrawal of the pension under its own management and not by the amount of people who ultimately pay it off. So it's a very robust number. It's from the most robust numbers in our estimate, I can almost say. That number has now also been used to cover the Tax Plan. Mr De Grave asked about the proposals for direct funding of childcare institutions. Before the elections, there will be a bill to this effect. Related to that he asked: gosh, wouldn't that also be an idea for the care premium and the care allowance? The direct settlement of one with the other has little enthusiasm from the VWS Minister. It believes that it has an educational effect when people see the whole premium. But Mr De Grave is asking for this because there are all those who do not pay. He says: that is also easy, not to pay and to get; that is not the same. That's right. But in the case of non-payers, there is an arrangement to do exactly that. This goes through a provision whereby the care allowance of the defaulters is eventually passed on to the insurer. Not to pay for anything, but to be subsidised for it, because it does not fit in with the feeling of justice. Its precise impact could be addressed in the budget handling of VWS. I cannot answer the question of exactly how it works, but this provision exists. Mr. Postema looked a bit crooked in this direction, because we had approached the CCCTB but also the CCCB very critically. Can I put it this way? The CCCTB in Brussels is called the stuttertaks. The Commission's aim, the underlying idea, is endorsed by the cabinet. The Commission wants to combat tax avoidance, but at the same time to create a more level playing field and make the internal market work. There is nothing against these goals, but there is a strong conviction that these proposals do not contribute at all. In fact, there are indications that they can lead to new forms of circumvention rather than to contribute to countering circumvention. I certainly find the proposal with the three c's to be economically very illogical, because it does not tax the profits where the value is created but redistributes them. There is, of course, a certain relationship between Vpb tariffs and the level of provision. We know countries in the world with a very low Vpb rate. The level of provision is not so high there either. You generally don't find any research laboratories there. Countries with a higher tax rate also have higher levels of provision. It's not convenient to mix that up. Then one can suddenly be taxed low but get a high level of provision. A German research institute in Germany is a very high tax on profits and then merges with an Irish mine and then suddenly it pays less tax. Does that make sense? No, that doesn't make sense. Moreover, the proposed key is very detrimental to the Netherlands. It's very much based on physical production economies. We are a trading economy and a service economy. I do not think that the proposal can count on broad applause in the Union either. In order to reassure Mr Postema, I would say that the cabinet is in favour of it in cases where it is necessary to prevent circumvention, just after a proper analysis, and in cases where it would be necessary to harmonise on points because this is simply an act of abuse. But harmonizing as a principle, as an ideology is not the line. The line is: where it is necessary because it is against obvious abuse, it is very good to talk about it. Mr Van Apeldoorn said that he was "surprised" and "distrusted" about the return of the proceeds of circumvention to companies. In fact, the cabinet has explicitly opted for and-and. So the cabinet has chosen to proactively counter evasion with everything it has in it. We also want to play an important role in the area of transparency. We did our best to do that. I believe that the Dutch Presidency has established a number of world records in getting European directives adopted. Congratulations to my neighbor, the minister. This has led to a great deal. But at the same time, we want to keep jobs here. The Netherlands has always been a magnet for jobs. In the past, this has also been done with constructions which are not fully applauseable here and which are in any case losing their credibility. No one thinks that's gonna take long. But it means that we need to have an appropriate and adequate level of taxation of profits. I have said everywhere and I say it again: no, we are not becoming the discounter of Europe, because we have a much higher level of provision than the discounter of Europe. But we do want to be competitive in the area of profit taxation, because that means jobs. We don't go first in the price fight, but we do want to be competitive normally. To reassure you, we have already agreed that the private taxpayer will not have to pay for this. Mrs. Vos mentioned the cars. We are now in the Netherlands on about 100,000 electric cars. The image of Mrs. Vos is that cars are disappearing at a very rapid rate. She has that image, because she has seen large numbers in the press about it, and I have seen those numbers too. However, those numbers were not recognized at all in the department. So I went into it a while ago: what would actually be going on here? It turns out that in the numbers there is not only the export, but also the transit. There have been very large quantities of cars in transit. According to the statistics, the most recent number of exports of plug-in hybrids is 216. We don't see that exploding right now either. Later numbers can be monitored again, but there does not seem to be a large-scale export of cars. If this were the case, I would be a little harsh on that. After all, Mrs Vos discussed these cars in the context of CO policy and climate policy. And the climate has no borders! In fact, if such a thing drives more kilometres in Moscow, it is better for the climate that it actually drives in Moscow than in Amsterdam. I am sure that Mrs Vos does not at all think that there should be a lot of car kilometres in Amsterdam. In the context of the climate, therefore, exports would not raise any objections. But we don't see those exports, except in the numbers that circulate here and there, which we think is transit through them. Then Mrs Vos mentioned a discussion we had last year on the energy tax for large consumers. Last year, this discussion was accompanied by a letter. The cabinet has outlined the possibilities, but also the opportunities, and we have also discussed this in this Chamber and on this occasion. If you increase the energy tax too much, you see a shift in industry rather than a reduction in emissions. In addition to this, the argument has been mentioned here earlier that many of these large consumers are concerned with the ETS domain. A higher levy therefore does not result in a reduction of duties and therefore has no climate effect. Charges are particularly useful where they concern the non-ETS domain. Mr Schalk is very consistent, and I congratulate him once again. He asked what happened to his motions. With regard to the first motion, it has already been noted that there are fundamental differences in the way you can look at income, income comparisons and the comparison of tax burdens. The cabinet does so on the basis of individuals; Mr Schalk does so on the basis of households. That's the difference we've discussed. This time it was chosen to do this with precision and customization and not with coarse artillery. Mr Schalk himself also mentioned the 50 million which is aimed at the group whose partner is not working, but cannot work either. That group does not have the freedom of choice, which this cabinet is promoting, at all. That was his objection. He said: you are always yelling about free choice, but there are also people who do not have that choice. That is true, and this measure is designed with some precision. The second motion for a resolution, Mr Schalk, was specifically about marginal pressure. The marginal pressure has been created by reducing the poverty trap. A lot of people have trouble with that marginal pressure: you're going to make more money, but you don't have much left. That is what is inherent in many people's feelings of injustice. However, we came from a situation in which non-working people who went to work deteriorated. That was the situation. And you can almost give marginal pressure a mathematical law: you have to put it somewhere. So if in the beginning, in the part of non-working to work, the marginal pressure becomes lower, it automatically increases for the same person in the journey afterwards. Because the only other way to improve marginal pressure is by lowering the income at the bottom or up at the top. The cabinet didn't choose that. But somewhere, there's this pressure, and it's always wringing. Because it clearly wrings and sands, it has been decided to ask SZW to do that research. After all, SZW is the department of purchasing power and of work. The investigation should be ready and available at a formation. That's a logical place to land this. Mr Van Rooijen also expressed concern about the marginal pressure. He did so after his colleague in the Lower House had tabled an amendment to that effect. He asked me why I did not recommend that amendment. But I see that Mr Schalk has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u216	I want the Secretary of State to stand by his words, namely that I am consistent in my actions here. I had also asked whether solutions were being explored and whether options were excluded. Furthermore, I do not think the timing for leaving the research available at the formation is very good. I think it's a little late. Which formation are we talking about? So that's after the election. Would it not be more appropriate if it were available at least before the elections, in other words at the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u217	Of course, instruments are being explored there. Otherwise, it would be lame. Then it would only be a contemplative study. The spirit of the agreements about this research is clearly getting insight into what you could do about things. That is what I think Mr Schalk wants to know, and that is what such an investigation should be about. So the answer to that is yes. The answer to the second question is, of course, yes. It would be even better, so to speak, if it had been here last week, because then we could have talked about it today. But it's not a very small thing. Of course, we can also make a nice note of it, but that is not what Mr Schalk means. There's got to be something serious. It is not a question of sending a note quickly; that was really not the port of the exchange of views. It's getting serious. That's what the department's gonna do, and every week before it's a week's profit. But I do not have the mandate to promise on behalf of SZW something that is not possible in the eyes of SZW. I can only agree entirely with Mr Schalk's observation. The answer is absolutely yes, but I just don't think it's necessarily possible. We shall then have to deal with the disappointments of Mr Van Rooijen. Why? Firstly, because the amendment in the introduction is rather problematic. Theoretically, it is possible, of course, to slow things down. Such a cliff is no one's beauty ideal, for it has all kinds of nasty sides. A gradual phasing-out would therefore be technically preferable, but that is not one, two, three to be regulated. That was one of the reasons why the amendment was strongly discouraged. Furthermore, the urgency is slightly different from other marginal pressures. We are concerned about the marginal pressure, for example, because it affects labour market incentives. These are people who go from an income X to an income Y, of which they must have a certain incentive. Someone's gonna work more, which he's gonna have to do more than that. But there's less to play here. We are talking about a group that lives above all less in favour of labour market incentives, with income rising with inflation. So we're growing. The next reason to discourage the amendment is that I am quite honest about this: it did something for which this cabinet does not strictly choose, namely a transfer of workers to the elderly. We do not want to burden the workers to give this advantage to the elderly, even though, if you look at the marginal pressure, care is justified. But if you look at the average pressure, it is in many cases even higher for workers than for the elderly. Mr Van Rooijen shakes his head, but we have several annexes on that. There is therefore no reason to say from the overall tax burden: well, there really is a need for something to be taken away from workers and that has to be done to the elderly. That is why we do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u218	The latter is a matter of cover. You can also find other coverage modules for this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u219	That is true, but that is not how the amendment is put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u220	I agree. But I have the impression that you weigh the first two arguments much more. I don't understand that one, two, three. I'll get back to the Tax Plan. For if all the other tax reductions can be phased out gradually, then I am unaware of the fact that this would not be possible for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u221	I am not saying that this is not the case, I am just saying that it is not possible to settle it from one year to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u222	We should discuss this in the Tax Plan. My point is the old-age discount. You talk about a work incentive: if you have more income, there must be an incentive to achieve that. But older people can reach their income limit once at 65 years, but a year later they receive an annuity policy of €1,000 or 3,000 per year. In the new system, if you don't pay off, you'll get the mandatory phasing-out of the claim in twenty years. In other words, older people can suddenly go from €36.057 to €58.000, or €1,000 or €3,000 more. That's what those draconian marginal rates are for. Then you should not switch to averages, because we are talking about marginal pressure. Someone gets $1,000 and goes backwards for $2,000. This has never been shown in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u223	I don't deny at all that, if the discount is a cliff, you can fall off and that can have a big effect. Mr Van Rooijen is quite right about that. I am just saying that it is not linked to labour market incentives here. That's a reason to take it elsewhere with more sirens and flashing lights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u224	If all workers on a ski track are to be reduced, is it not fair that a little more income from the elderly should be taken away and even a double fine imposed? That's totally unacceptable from a social point of view, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u225	These kind of quick cuts are not nice at all. I am not saying that this can never be incorporated into a tax system in order to do so differently. I'm just saying that it doesn't go from year to year. I would also like to say that the social need to do so is different from that of workers. But I'm not saying it's all fantastic. I started by saying that it absolutely doesn't deserve the beauty prize. I think we agree on a lot of things, but Mr Van Rooijen really wants to get mad at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u226	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u227	If it's possible next year, I'm very happy about that. But you are talking about the social need that there is not to do with the elderly what you do with the workers. Taxation also means equal treatment. If all Dutch people are to be phased out, then I insist, and I continue to do so, that it should also be for the elderly. Those too are people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u228	Mr Ten Hoeve asked about the excessive remuneration scheme. He asked whether this arrangement was successful and whether it could be extended. The scheme has just been evaluated. It didn't make me very happy. It was an annex to a motion and a letter of commitment to the House of Representatives. But I realize with this question that if the post is not read crosswise, this information has not reached the Upper House. I will offer this evaluation, with an offer note, to the First Chamber. That evaluation shows that the law does what it is intended to do, but it is very real and it brings a lot of hassle to society, without generating more tax revenue. This is typically one of those arrangements that, if you look more broadly at the system, you want to see if you want to maintain it. But that's not the issue right now. I'll send in the evaluation so the Chamber can take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u229	I'd like to suspend the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u230	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The Minister indicated that he is not a fan of self-reflection. I found his performance on the policy pursued very convincing, and I congratulate him on that. His intransigence around the ftk doesn't appeal to me as much. I really think this will be difficult to sustain; I said this this morning. With regard to thezzp issue, I think it is necessary to achieve a total recast of the position ofzzp'ers and employees. It would be good, in preparation for the formation of a new cabinet, for this to be taken up in one way or another. This is a subject that is so important and so complicated that it does not lend itself to taking it off in a cabinet formation. I think that the answer given by the Secretary of State on the DBA Act is sufficient. I think that it is reasonable to ask no more than what he has said about how to formulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u231	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. The Minister may not like reflection, I didn't think it was bad. I found him very convincing, even more so, and I have to say that I stick to the question I myself asked: are there any good examples in other countries where this other policy, which economists so advocate, has worked better? I also discussed this with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Apart from America, which has a very different economic structure, which raises a lot of questions, there are few inspiring examples in Europe. I have had this kind of discussion with people from Belgium and France. They don't really feel like they've done much better than the Netherlands. It's being prosecuted. We are getting further evaluations and I find it interesting to continue the debate. When it comes to consistency and anti-cyclical and pro-cyclical policies, now that things are much better in the Netherlands, we should start with anti-cyclical policies. That's what I really like about the Secretary of State. And that must be said above all to those who advocate it in this way. Those are the ones I hear saying that Brussels must be followed and that there must be substantial investment: there must be money, there must be money, there must be money and there must be money. Will we then now pursue this anti-cyclical policy, I say to those who advocate it in this way? Because then we will soon have the opportunity to pursue that policy that they so much wish for. It's two-and-a-half, but that's what you always see in politics. Once again, I have expressed my sympathy. I understand that it is difficult not to talk about the use of these additional resources in times of high economic growth. The consequence is not to do it, to save it and to put it in the funding gap. I'm gonna finish with this. I have listened carefully to Mrs Vos and to Mr Van Apeldoorn, who can explain in a glowing manner how much the middle and higher incomes have been paid by this cabinet and have really had a great time. I would ask Mrs Vos and Mr Van Apeldoorn to join me in explaining this to an average amount of VVDs. I really have a problem explaining that properly. I believe that there has been a balanced policy. It takes me a great deal of effort to get the picture, as you can so convincingly do, that these high incomes have all received huge amounts of extra money. You can do that very convincingly, so if you would help me do that in a room with VVDs, very much so, because you can do that much better than I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u232	Mr. Chairman. I think it might be just as useful for Mr De Grave to go with Mr Van Apeldoorn or Mrs Vos when they visit their supporters. I think he might learn as much from that as she could from visiting a group of VVDs. Perhaps he will be able to understand the needs and concerns to which they refer, because they are not made up. I listened with great admiration and appreciation to the Minister's speech. It was obviously expert and dedicated, much praise and gratitude for that. I still owe him. We had a little argument about the efforts in public research expenditure. In the meantime, I've been able to find out where I got my information. It comes from a report by the Rathenau Institute, which provides an overview of total public expenditure on R&D and innovation. I will tell you exactly: in 2015, this was 6.324 million, in 2016 6.196 million, in 2017 6.063 million and in 2018 5.988 million. This seems to me to be a downward trend in absolute numbers. I would like to hear from the Minister at some point where I am mistaken. A second point I owe him is one that I actually owed him, namely a little more depth in the discussion about why the Netherlands started later. With all the praise we can have for Dutch economic development, it is undeniable that other countries around us have recovered faster from the economic crisis than the Netherlands. The Minister did say something about it. He has made a reference, I think, to our long-term balance sheet: the well-known problem of high debt position on the one hand and high assets on the other. We save a lot. At the same time, we have incurred high debts for our housing financing. I made one suggestion he didn't respond to. Should we not look more closely at a possibility of a reduction in the balance, which would mean that we allow any interaction between these two activities? We do not put these two activities side by side, but we make it possible at some point to transfer money from one to another and to go back. That seems to me to be a first-order task of reform. I would very much like to hear if the Minister shares that insight, although I do not expect him to be able to do much about it. One last point that the Minister did not really respond to is the issue of the focus on the financial sector. I think it would be useful if we were to look for an opportunity, as the WRR report suggests, to get a snapshot of that financial sector once a year, regardless of this debate. This is important for us, perhaps too important for us if the WRR is right, and worth a careful discussion. I can imagine that this Chamber would provide an appropriate forum for this. Finally, I would also like to say something to Secretary of State Wiebes, because the DBA debate has been central tonight. I am not the only one who, not even for the first time, has seen the Secretary of State with the great verbal agility we are used to seeing him make and explain a very big turn. At the same time, I have the feeling that, with some hesitation, I am saying that in this whole way of presenting and communicating too little of what this whole policy has brought about, the sad development of the DBA Act, the creation and the attempt to implement it, by very large numbers ofzzp'ers, who have had at least a few particularly unpleasant months to thank. It is an unpleasant experience that we could have spared them if we had done what we should have done and not come to the conclusion afterwards that the order of policy making has been wrong. I am convinced that the Secretary of State is in good faith in his intentions for communication. In that communication, more will be needed than verbal agility only to regain the confidence of this group, who, for a very great deal of reason, feels badly treated by politics. In the way in which the Secretary of State speaks about this in this room, too little understanding and too little empathy sounds to us about what has been done in the lives and the security of large groups of self-employed people, who should be of great concern to us. I'd be happy to give that to him before he leaves on his crusade in their direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u233	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance has pursued a convincing financial policy in recent years. As far as my group is concerned, he has also explained this convincingly this evening; thank you for that. I would like to return briefly to two matters. The Secretary of State noted that there are more effective ways to tackle tax avoidance than a common tax base. I think he is failing not only himself, but also the Dutch efforts during the Presidency. I believe I understand that companies will soon have to pay tax on a larger part of the profits by agreements made under the Dutch Presidency. I am talking about broadening the tax base. I would ask the Secretary of State and the Cabinet to look at the European proposals again and with that look, because you could consider this as a further step in the direction which the Dutch cabinet itself wanted to point out. The Secretary of State has also indicated that he wishes to relate the level of the Vpb tariff to the level of provision. There's certainly something to be said for that in theory. But the question is whether it is credible if you would then advocate a 10% reduction in the Netherlands. You're wondering if something happened to the welfare level in our country all of a sudden. I would like to test the consistency of that reasoning. As part of the discussion with the Minister on the future of pensions, Mr Van Rooijen made a point that touched me quite a bit, because he illustrated the misunderstanding in which we often get into that discussion. Mr Van Rooijen said that theft was almost cut here two years ago. The ftk was established in 2006. I believe that we are doing not only ourselves, but also the people in the country who are concerned by this, a favour if we do not suggest that the current pension issue is something that this cabinet has created. It's not something that comes from this ftk either. We do not do justice to the actual underlying problem. I have tried not only to indicate this with increasing life expectancy, but also with a renewed view of the relationship between the assets and the liabilities of the funds. In this context, in line with several colleagues in this House, I am in favour of a revision of the Financial Regulation in a calm and less accusing way, in order to achieve a less interest-sensitive system, with a renewed interest in the real pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u234	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. In replying in the first period, the Minister denied a number of observations made by my colleagues and myself, in particular on the usefulness and usefulness of the cuts. A number of things have also been mixed up. I heard the Minister say that we would have used a Nobel Prize winner to demonstrate the incorrect nature of the excessive cuts. That's not right. Stiglitz has been cited by both me and the others solely in relation to the sustainability, or rather the inevitability, of the euro. As regards the nature of the cuts, the PVV has also indicated in the past that savings could be made, albeit in areas other than those for which the government has chosen, i.e. in areas that do not affect the economy very much or hardly. I have mentioned, among other things, the following savings: Brussels, development aid, asylum influx, public service broadcasting, subsidies, wind energy, etc. Since the Minister himself took back on the previous election programmes, I also mention that at the time the CPB in the booklet KiK, Keuzes in Map, indicated that there were many more sensible choices possible to cut back. I think we all have that book, and we can check it all again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u235	Since Mr Van Strien now explicitly embraces the transfer of the PVV-plans by the Central Planning Bureau and sets an example, I am surprised that the supreme leader of the PVV has announced that the new programme will not be passed on. Perhaps Mr Van Strien could explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u236	Yes. I'm quoting the KiK program now. I have mentioned this in this Chamber before. There has not never been anything done with what emerged from the pass-through of those programmes. That's the point I'm making right now. But we are not going to agree on this subject for your birthday, Mr President. From tonight's discussions, I take one issue that really deserves clarification, namely pensions. If you say that the problems with pension funds are mainly caused by the bizarre rules of the game in this case, the liabilities are discounted at about 1%, with the average return of the funds being roughly 7%. We've been getting older for 150 years. This has been known and taken into account by the funds for years. I am surprised to see that I agree with the last remarks made by my colleague, Mr PvdA, this evening. I would like us to discuss before the end of the year solely the absurdity of a 1% discount rate for pension funds' liabilities, while their actual return is structurally higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u237	Mr. Chairman. We too, of course, thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their detailed reply. It certainly clarified a number of things. But on the state of the Dutch economy and the relationship with government policy, neither will we agree before nor after the President's birthday. Several figures indeed show that the economy is finally recovering, but a patient who can get rid of intensive care is not necessarily better. This certainly applies to our economy, which, in our opinion, has not only been in intensive care for far too long, but has also received the wrong treatment. A treatment of interests that has only aggravated the ailment. In the end, however, the patient went out of intensive care on his own and with the help of the outside world, thinking of the ECB and the attracting world economy. Every recession ends, including self-created recessions. So we're in the post-op recovery room now. From the perspective of society, that economy is not yet in order. We have just had a small debate on increasing poverty and inequality. I do not think that the Minister has finally contested the figures, not even in the debate with Mr Vos. However, there is disagreement as to whether the cabinet has done enough or not. We still believe that the cabinet has not done enough. A word on the latest employment figures. I referred to a publication of the CBS. The Minister would look into this for the second term. I assume he did that now. It is good that employment is increasing, but there are some comments to be made. I just looked it up. The CBS literally writes: "The growing number of jobs still comes mainly from temporary workers." I agree with the Minister that temporary work can also be nice jobs in the sense that people can naturally be happy with them, but they nevertheless represent the risk of'so won so badly'. On the other hand, the biggest decline is in the healthcare sector. Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond to these figures from the CBS. Does he agree with us that it would not be desirable if the ratio of growth between fixed and flex were reversed to what it is at present, namely that flex is still growing much faster than fixed? Then I have a question about how solid the financial foundation of the Dutch economy is now. Reference has been made to the WRR report. We look forward to the reaction of the cabinet to that. The Minister has already said a few things about it, but perhaps he can highlight one more point. The WRR notes in its report that the policies of recent years have led, and I quote from the report 'to shift responsibilities to individuals and to invest public services in semi-public institutions through self-determination and that this has led to irresponsible financial risks'. It refers to the government's flagship: the participatory society. I wonder if we can find a response from the cabinet in the cabinet response. Maybe the Minister can say something about that already. Then I'll join the Secretary of State. It concerns tax avoidance. Thanks for the clarity. I conclude that it has now been confirmed that the revenues from the tax avoidance approach should be returned to business and that the rates should actually be reduced, even if we should not become more discounter. In the perspective of the SP Group, this means that we are collecting by one hand what the government actually had to do all these years and that this is returned by the other hand. My question is, what is the balance of this? Finally, the need to invest in sustainable growth and in the quality of our society. Mr De Grave asks whether we should not now be consistent and adopt anti-cyclical policies, because the economy is doing so well, and therefore need to make further cuts. I think that Mr De Grave's analysis is somewhat inadequate, because, according to the CPB too, we are still in a situation of under-utilisation. There is no overheating of the economy. Also look at the low inflation. In any case, I have argued that the Netherlands needs a real social and green investment agenda after the balding of recent years. The European Commission also recommends that the Netherlands should now be able and perhaps opt for additional public investment. But what happens to us now? The Minister who is always so keen to take the recommendations of Brussels to heart says: yes, those cuts that had to be made by Brussels were necessary and, although not wholeheartedly, we have carried them out all these years. Now that the Commission is finally saying that it is time to invest, the Minister does not give at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u238	I wish it were true that the cabinet and previous Cabinets would take the recommendations of the European Commission to heart a little more often. This could lead to a further reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction and all kinds of other good. Much more astonishing is your statement of intent on those proposals from the Commission. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Apeldoorn whether that is a guarantee for the future. Is he going to belong to the yes camp in one go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u239	I thank Mr Postema for his question. Mr. Postema must listen to me very carefully. My point is not that, in general, we should give statements to the Commission. I think that every proposal from the Commission should be assessed on its merits. Sometimes there are proposals between them that make sense. We have embraced some of the Commission's recommendations before. Our argument would rather be that we believe that the Commission has often pursued and advocated the wrong policy, but here too, it is better to turn halfway than to go astray. In the Commission too, and previously in the IMF, there has been an understanding that the austerity, the austerity policy, may have gone too far and that it is now time for more investment. We are pleased that the Commission is aware of this, and we would be even happier if others in this Chamber and also the cabinet were to see it with us. For me, the Minister's arguments lead to the conclusion that the spirit of Colijn has slowly left Brussels and has now finally taken possession of this minister. I don't know if he recognizes himself in that image. It amazes me all the more, because he insists on the fact that the Dutch economy is doing so well. If so, would there not be room for much-needed public investment? According to our group, there is now a broad consensus in the Netherlands, also supported by trade unions and employers, that it is time to invest more in tomorrow's society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u240	Now it's two and one. Whether the Dutch economy is doing well and we must, as Mr De Grave says, conduct anti-cyclical policies or, as you say, the Dutch economy is not doing well, but you should not use that argument either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u241	As far as we are concerned, it is clear that the economy is now improving compared to a few years ago. However, economic growth is not yet sufficiently robust, and that is precisely why it is now necessary to boost it. In our view, it would have been better to give that impulse a few years ago. If you had invested more at that time, the economy would have been even stronger now. I note, however, that the European Commission also notes that there is scope for the Dutch budget and that, from that perspective too, that we do not entirely share, there is room for public investment. On the basis of these considerations, we are therefore tabling the next motion. This motion is also tabled on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u242	Mrs Vos is the Green Left Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u243	Indeed, Mrs Vos of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The President shall: Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not only growth but also growth potential and the sustainability of the economy benefit from additional public investment;]] [[whereas the European Commission has noted in a recent communication that the euro area economy is still recovering only slowly and that there is a need for an expansionary fiscal position in the euro area as a whole;]] [[Whereas the European Commission, following the example of the OECD and the IMF, considers that the Netherlands also has budgetary room for structural additional public investment and that this will give a positive boost to the growth of the Dutch economy without negative impact on public debt;]] [[calls on the Government, the analysis and the conclusions of the European Commission on the need for additional public investment to be taken into account and to come forward with proposals for such investment and to submit it to this Chamber before the end of the cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u244	Mr. Chairman. I too, Mrs Vos, and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, thank the cabinet very much for its comprehensive response. On a number of points, we are also pleased with this and have been absolutely enlightening. I think it is also clear that we may not get closer to each other on a number of points. My group had an explicit need to consider with the cabinet whether everything that has been done in recent years in the area of austerity in order to get the Dutch economy back on track and put the finances in order has been sensible. I've tasted a little less than others real self-reflection at the minister's office. He also said himself that he is not like that. I still support the fact that the Central Planning Bureau has also said that growth has simply been lost in the years 2008 to 2016 and that it is talking about 6% of GDP and employment has been lost. Surely the question is: could it have been otherwise? We haven't really figured that out yet. Take care of the reforms. I think it is very worthwhile to see whether this has been the way we should have done it. After all, care shortages have indeed occurred. People don't get access to care. Jobs have been lost. Shouldn't we have handled that differently? That is still a big social question. I've also talked about inequality. I have presented a number of figures to the Minister, including differences between beneficiaries and workers, who have been considerably increased, and people on high incomes, who have been given much more purchasing power than those on low incomes. The latter is five times as much. The Minister says that this is mainly due to the economic situation and wage developments. It is, in part, absolutely true that people with high incomes have certainly benefited greatly from this, but why was it necessary to give them an extra boost? Wouldn't it have been more important to invest in the group of people who are constantly having a hard time in their daily lives? We talked about the call for extra investment. I am a little surprised that the Minister says that he does not need the European Commission for this and that he does not agree with it, while the European Commission, in view of what is going on here and the large trade surplus, is really calling on the Netherlands to invest extra, so that we can also help to get the European economy going. Does the Minister not see any challenge for the Netherlands in that regard? Finally, I come to the urgent issue of climate change and green investment. Should the cabinet not even consider whether it can do more than it is doing now, not only through its own investments, but also by detaching investment from the business community and by organising investment? I also asked if, for example, pension funds could do more about this. On that point, I shall table the next motion. The Chamber, Whereas.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u245	Wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u246	Oh, no, I can't do that at all. Sorry, Chairman. It's so late. I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u247	But I'm still sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u248	I know. I wish I'd be like you when I was 70. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Ester, Mr Strike and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for example, investments with pension capital can be of great importance for accelerating energy transition and improving energy efficiency of homes;]] [[Whereas green investment strategies can provide an attractive and sustainable return in the long term;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage pension funds to develop and facilitate investment strategies aimed at greener and more sustainable destinations for pension capital investments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u249	I have another comment on the answer to the questions relating to the DBA Act and the approach to the bogus constructions. My group also believes that it is really important to tackle them. The Secretary of State answered our questions well, but it was a little crazy that he would come up with a 1907 law in which there was a problem. Then you're thinking, isn't homework done? A number of issues related to the demarcation between self-employed and employees, which was so unclear, have been discussed extensively in this Chamber. To be honest, that surprised me. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has now taken action and that he is shutting down the case. He's made it pretty clear to this Chamber how he's gonna do it. I am grateful to him for that, but I hope that we will soon come to a really clear and good solution. I have said it before: the cabinet deserves a compliment. Much is simply in order in terms of finances, but in society we still see a lot of needs, inequality and major problems with sustainability and the climate. As far as we are concerned, more should have been done in this area, especially in this Millions note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u250	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering my group's questions. I would also like to thank the officials for their hard work on this long day, which I always have great respect for. Fortunately, as far as my group is concerned, these General Financial Reviews should be based on the assumption that the Netherlands is now in a better position economically. My group is grateful for that, but it is true that a high price has been paid for all this. Many Dutch people have experienced this in person. Think of young people, elderly people, jobseekers andone-earners. For the Christian Union Group, the question is whether we have better aligned our financial institutions to cope with new shocks and whether our financial system is more sustainable. It is good to note that some of this is certainly the case, but at the same time we see that a number of urgent cases are still being moved to another cabinet. Think of the revision of our pension system, the redesign of our tax system and the new vision of the role ofzzp'ers in the labour market, which we have rightly discussed in detail this evening. My group sees the absence of these reforms as a missed opportunity. My group also continues to be concerned about the lack of public investment in traditional public service defence and justice. That is now being invested in, but if you look at it over the whole period, you have to say that it has been a worrying period when it comes to the very fundamental public investment in classical public service. We talked about the learning experience from the crisis. In fact, nothing is more important in policy history than learning a crisis. We thank both rulers for their reflection. There was even some self-reflection; it had to be enforced a little bit, but you ended up doing very well, Minister. I noticed that the emphasis was very strong on institutional statements. Reference was made to the banking sector and the housing market, which are also very crucial factors. My party has taken responsibility for supporting it wherever it felt it was necessary. What I found less about self-reflection and reflection was the answer to the question of what the important cultural factors were. These are matters such as the role of own gain, short-term thinking in society, the culture of bonuses and the accumulation of debt. Such more cultural factors are also important to understand the crisis. I would also like to draw attention to this tonight. The learning experience should therefore be that we should have our institutions in order, but also our culture in order. I would like to comment on the 5 billion package, not to look back on that period, but to draw attention to the policy inconsistency that I note on that point. My group continues to find the argument about the tax gift of 5 billion curious. We have heard that argument this evening, but we have also read it in the answer to the written questions. All our comments last year, as well as those of other parties, to add more justice to the package, were matched by appealing to the famous 35,000 imaginary jobs. We've consulted extensively on that. Now we are looking at the current package and we see that with playful ease purchasing power measures, which we support to a large extent, are being implemented which, according to the CPB, cost 21 000 jobs. The relationship between the two measures is curious and it remains a mystery to me how easily the cabinet changes paradigm in this matter and how little the value of policy consistency seems to be. One final point. I had prepared a detailed discussion on the disappearance of the middle framework in the financial sector, the shrinking of the middle class in the Netherlands and the great social impact that this brought. I had a little debate about it with colleague De Grave. The Minister has not responded to it, and I find that a bit unfortunate. Can I tempt him to a very brief reaction? Does he share my concerns on this point and does he think that this issue should be high on the policy agenda? We have seen what has happened in America, and this has to do with the phenomenon of the declining middle class. I'm worried about that, and I'd appreciate a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering my questions. They have been shared at a number of times during interrupting debates, so I am only going to go into three points. I hope that I am not blamed for leaving some things behind. First of all, the question of defence. A number of parties have rightly expressed concerns today about how the defence budget should be used in the future. I think the Minister has given us a strong warning. He was fine with us worrying about it and calling it here, but he wants butter with the fish. The Minister has pointed out to us that there must be real attention to it in the forthcoming election programmes. I can assure him that the SGP Group will at least want to grow to a firm commitment over the next four years. We will not be able to do that entirely in the next cabinet period, because it concerns 5.4 or perhaps 6 billion. In the coming period, however, the aim is to achieve an increase of 4 billion a year. Whether this is fully included in the electoral programme, we have to wait and see, because that is now with the CPB. If you succeed, you should be able to grow to the NATO standard in a range of five or six years. That won't be easy, I realize that very well. However, it would be good if we could all look at the amount of time we want to use to actually put our defences in order. The second point I would like to mention is a brief reflection on the debate on the DBA Act. I would like to give a very brief summary of how it came to me. We need to remove uncertainty, tackle abuse and clarify what will eventually happen to this law in a timely manner, within a year. The third aspect I would like to mention is the research that has been announced. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on the speed with which this was done after the motion was adopted on 1 November. It's about the stacking of rules. The Secretary of State has said that it has to do with the marginal pressure. I understand that, especially because he explained it with the poverty trap that was initially in the hands of someone who didn't deserve anything. If he was gonna make a little bit of money from zero to a little bit, he'd be in the poverty trap. It's been moved now, but it's actually been moved to an income of about $20,000. A person aged 22 or 23 years with a minimum youth wage is approximately at that €20,000. This group, which is going to be very difficult, is now facing the poverty trap that we have removed from another group. It would be great if the research leads to a better distribution. It is nice that it has been promised that it will be a good and serious investigation. That takes time, I understand. The Secretary of State has said he wants the results available at the formation. As far as my group is concerned, this means that it will have to be ready on 15 March, because the formation will begin on 16 March. However, it would be nice if it were a little earlier. I understand the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment is going to do this. That's fine. Maybe one last question to the Secretary of State. Someone must have formulated the research question. I would very much like to have a letter with the exact research question. It would be very nice for my group if we could do that before we discuss the Tax Plan here. Remains me to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their unbridled commitment. I didn't do that at the end of my first term. The work isn't done yet, they can go on for a while. I wish them wisdom and God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u252	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kesteren noted just in the second term that it would be difficult to maintain, if I understood him correctly. In any case, he meant that the cabinet's opposition to maintaining them was also difficult to sustain. It's just how you put it. I note that Mr Postema actually thinks that it should be adapted, but not too quickly. It's interest-sensitive. The ftk, I was talking about almost cutting the ftk 2014, exactly two years ago. I have been able to follow that closely from another role. I wasn't talking about the ftk 2006. Moreover, I note that Mr Postema continues to say in the second term that it also has to do with ageing. We are talking here about capital cover and saving everyone for their own pension. There, aging, unlike the AOW, doesn't matter. Insofar as ageing does play a role, it is incorporated into the coverage rate through the adjusted life expectancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u253	It is good that Mr Van Rooijen made it clear that he was concerned with the Ftk 2014. He didn't mention that, which is why I reminded him not to create false images of what this cabinet can and can't count on. Mr Van Rooijen is a great expert on the question of ageing. Surely he will agree with me that we have had to make actuarial adjustments to our pension obligations several times over the past year and that this has also been, and still is, a great concern of our funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u254	I share that concern, but my point is that this care is handled carefully. Each year, it is automatically, almost mathematically, taken over blindly through the actuarial society. They haven't done that right for a number of years. That has been adjusted with one big blow, but that happens every year now. We agree on that. I was with Mr Van Strien. He was very short, but very clear. I don't have to add anything. He said he didn't understand the inconsistency and wondered why only 1% is included in commitments, while there is such a high return. I pointed out the 10 billion. I have missed an answer from the Minister to my question on the evaluation of the FTC. I asked not only for withdrawal, but also for his willingness to submit an evaluation to the cabinet and his colleague. I would point out that it is perfectly normal to evaluate laws after a few years. It's kind of a standard three-year procedure. I would therefore like to ask that again. Perhaps we should also include the evaluation of the Pension Act of 2006, because there is a provision Article 221 in the Pension Act. The Improved Premium Scheme Act removed the evaluation clause a few months ago. I would argue in favour of including the Pension Act if we are going to evaluate it. We need to look at what we think afterwards compared to what those who made the laws in 2006 and two years ago thought. In the course of the budget debate on Social Affairs in December, at least, normally in December, we will continue the debate on pensions. The Minister did not convince me with his answers on pensions. To my regret, I have to say that the cabinet is not currently prepared to take any steps to prevent discounts. Then I'll go into the Secretary of State's answers. I have two points. Firstly, income policy does indeed come in through a note from the Minister for Social Affairs before the budget is dealt with in the Lower House. I understand that the Minister for Social Affairs has already promised that it will also be sent to the First Chamber. It must be, because a lot of questions were put in writing during this debate and reference was made to the note that the Minister writes. Perhaps we should call on the Minister for Social Affairs instead of the Minister for Education, who we are no longer missing. Under the DBA Act it was said that people no longer recognized themselves in that law. I would like to add that this also applies, of course, to the ftk. Finally, I come to the old-age discount. The Secretary of State spoke of a cliff. I can't think of a clearer metaphor. I would just like to point out the mirror side of that cliff. If you have €36.057 and get a discount of €10, which could be next year if the cabinet doesn't, this means that you get €1221 tax reduction. So your income goes down by €10 from €36.057 to €36.047, but you get €1221. That is an astronomical, reverse marginal relief that, I think, has never been shown. If they say: there are no discounts, I hope so, then you only have to do an extra tax deductible gift of €10 or something more, and you have also earned €1221. This is no longer fiscal hygiene. That is what I wanted to say. I hope that in December we will have a fruitful debate with the Secretary of State on tax policy in relation to the Tax Plan. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u255	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply and the extensive explanations. In my opinion, the Minister has kept an extremely good account of the policy that has been pursued in recent years. I congratulate him on that and agree with him on all the main issues. Like Mr De Grave, I was particularly affected by the Minister's self-reflection. He hated that, but the conclusions about what he had learned were taken from my heart. We have reformed, but actually in the wrong time. The conclusion is that we must continue to reform gradually now that things are getting better. The second conclusion is that we are a fragile open economy that is easily out of balance. This means that we have an obligation to build buffers. I very much agree with that. We did not agree on the disproportionately favourable tax treatment of workers, nor did we agree on the application of this financial review framework for pension funds. We do not need to dwell on both issues anymore, but this discussion will come back to the debates with the next cabinet. As far as the DBA is concerned, the Secretary of State is right that a large part of the problem lies in the conceptual framework of relations of authority and substitution. These two elements have been discussed extensively in this Chamber and have been identified as a problem at that time. I do not know whether it is very easy to find solutions to this and thus solve the whole problem. Eventually, the problem of thezzp'er also remains part of the whole problem of division into the labour market. The embedding of thezzp'er in the labour market requires much more than just this. At first, that remains an additional problem, I think. One thing struck me. The Secretary of State has told us in detail how difficult it is to maintain on the basis of the VAR that was still in force at the time. You can handle the contractor with that, but not the client. And the culprit is, as a rule, right with the clients. The Secretary of State now intends to tackle the notorious culprits. May I therefore ask carefully whether the Secretary of State has been given the opportunity to do so by adopting this law? Couldn't it have been otherwise? The next and last point is the CCCTB. The comments of the State Secretary are indeed in line with what the government makes clear in the BNC sheet. I'm very sorry that that's so negative. If each country, small or large, sets its own rules for the taxation of profits, each with its own apartheids, it is in my opinion unclear and casts a shadow over what is actually being asked of companies for tax payments. Even if the amounts are known, the way they have been created remains unclear when comparing them. You can do something about that if you design a common base for a much larger area, a common tax base. Transparency is therefore the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u256	May I ask you to watch your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u257	This is my final remark. The second point is that when we think not in larger units, but give everyone, small and large, the opportunity to regulate everything in terms of taxation of profits, competition with others continues to play an important role for everyone. This means that the tendency to race to the bottom remains constant. That's what you see happening. America has a rate of 35%...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u258	Mr Ten Hoeve, you have been speaking a minute and a half longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u259	...but will lower that. The United Kingdom will also reduce the rate. We also reduce rates over time. In essence, you solve that only when you set a rate with a much larger unit and can then maintain it. That would benefit everyone. We are far from that, but every step in this direction would probably reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u260	It's time for the government's second term. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u261	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the honourable Members for this debate. The debate was interesting and has touched on the broad lines of the current social and economic debate, both at national and international level. I would also like to thank you for the kind words that have been said in our direction. Of course, we will not agree on a number of points, but I hope that we will continue to debate in the next electoral period on the basis of the acceptance of the facts that we have here in the Netherlands, where we have a good tradition of being established by independent mathematicians. I say this in connection with the realization of the CBS and looking forward to the CPB. I think that this is extremely valuable for the quality of the debate in the Netherlands and the way we make policies. I see that the political debate in other European countries where there are no such institutions can go in all directions, without this kind of hard bargaining. I believe that this is a very good thing and hope that we will be able to hold on to it in the Netherlands and will always respect those institutions. There have been a few questions that remain from the first term. I'll answer that first. A few questions have also been added. I will answer that and then I will come to the motions that lie on my property. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked what the Minister thought of the idea of having an annual discussion on the financial sector. I shall, of course, add myself to the wishes of the Chamber. We report on developments in the financial sector every year in the Millions Note. In between we have many policy debates, often in the Lower House, on many topics in the financial sector. I have a lot of debates in the House of Representatives on the financial sector. I always prefer to keep things together a little bit, so we don't let the agenda explode any further. I think it is important to continue to pay attention to these developments in the Millions Note. As far as I am concerned, this is a good time to discuss the situation in the financial sector, but if the First Chamber wishes to have a separate debate on this, or otherwise, I will of course add myself. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked a question about the long-term balance sheets in the first place. Shouldn't there be more room so that there is flexibility for an individual, to slide between the pension and his own home? We have studied this strongly and intensively during this period, also in close cooperation with groups in the House of Representatives who asked for room for this. This is extremely complicated in the current design of the second pillar pension. There is a strong relationship with the average systematiek or the average premium. These opportunities would be created if we were to create a pension system which would also allow more individuality. At the moment, it is extremely complicated, including legal. It is also legally vulnerable if we had allowed it. I cannot fully reproduce that discussion right now, but we have looked at it intensively, because we are not opposed to it in principle. In fact, there is a great deal in favour of making this possible when people have big pension pots that they can't reach, while in the meantime the mortgage is underwater and there are financial problems in their daily household, and we have seen this situation in recent years. This really needs to be seen in the light of the wider debate on the future of the pension system. Mr Rinnooy Kan had also asked a question on the amount of 100 million for energy saving own homes released under the Tax Plan. On 7 October, Minister Blok informed the House of Representatives on how to use these funds: 61 million for grants to owners and owners' associations; 9 million for an information campaign and implementation costs; 20 million for the regional approach by municipalities, companies and other stakeholders; and 10 million for interest relief and better reputation of the National Energy Savings Fund. Those funds are divided over three years. The subsidy scheme started from 15 September. At the request of Mr Van Apeldoorn, I looked at the development of employment growth in the quality of fixed or flex. Measured from the third quarter, looking back a year, 129,000 jobs have been added, 48,000 of which are fixed and 69,000 flex. The permanent jobs are therefore clearly growing again, but there is still a greater proportion of flexibility. Of these 69,000 flexible jobs there are 34,000 temporary work and a smaller proportion of self-employed workers. We don't have to disagree with those figures. I agree with him that I would like to see permanent jobs, especially for older people who have been unemployed for a long time, so that they can get back into work. Mr Ester asked about the development of technology in the labour market and the position of middle groups and middle incomes. Maybe we should talk about middle school, because that's where the crux is. It is a phenomenon that is increasingly and better described in literature. You can see that much sharper in the United States so far than in the Netherlands, but this is also evident in the Netherlands. It has to do with technological development and robotization. Experience has shown that in other parts of the economy new jobs are created, not only for high or low incomes, but also in part for middle-income services. I'm not so gloomy about it. Mr Ester uses rather strong words and talks about the declining middle class. I do not yet see the development in the Dutch labour market. I am also a little more optimistic about the creation of new jobs and new sectors. Another part of my answer is that we really need to invest in the quality of our education. This is a great cliché, because everyone agrees on it, yet we are not getting enough. Learning doesn't stop. We have too many people out there in the financial sector who haven't been trained for years. They have spent their whole lives working at a bank or insurance company and then suddenly enter a labour market that offers very new jobs and requires quite different qualifications. There's not enough investment in that. It is partly up to the public authorities, but also partly to the private sector or the social partners to organise this better. We agree in general terms, but it remains a huge challenge to get it off the ground. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the evaluation of the FTC. The new ftk is only recently in operation. I didn't think an evaluation date was set, but I'd say we're almost continuously evaluating the ftk. I believe that the Netherlands Bank has sent letters several times to the First Chamber, which has also held hearings. I have already been in the Finance Committee twice and we have a new date to talk about this. The Dutch Bank will also be happy to advise the Chamber further. I just hope that we do this extremely carefully. We should not be too opportunistic about monitoring the sustainability of the pension system, even for the generations that are to come, because there is now a very low interest rate, there is no indexing or even a threat of discounts. If we do not fundamentally review the pension system, including the value of the contract offered, we risk moving potential risks to the future, and I am very reluctant to do so. We will soon continue this discussion in the Finance Committee, with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. Mr De Grave referred to the debate on anti-cyclical policy. That's interesting. He asked if the U.S. is a good example of it. Actually, it's not. The picture of the US may need to be revised. There, too, there is just cutbacks, and in a very rough way. The government shut down a few times. No more money was spent because Congress didn't authorize further spending. Public expenditure has also been affected in the US. The idea that the budget has been pro-cyclically abandoned there is not correct. What has been done differently in the US, and really much better, is that the banks have been dealt with very quickly after the financial crisis. This has made economic recovery possible much earlier. It has also been asked whether the Dutch government has pursued procyclical policies. We have continued to stimulate the economy by turning year after year out of deficits. The CPB has also shown this once in a report, but that has been quoted less today. Where did the shrinkage in the economy come from and where did growth come from? Then you see that the government has pushed the economy a little bit each time by having a deficit year in a year. Of course we could have done more. If we hadn't cut back, we'd have made much bigger deficits to this day. But it's not like the government cut off the economy that way. She's been stimulating them all the time. That discussion has been well conducted. I thought I had already promised Mr Rinnooy Kan that he would include the figures on research expenditure in a letter. We will involve the Rathenau Institute, to which he referred. I have replied to his other points. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for a specific point in the WRR report. The WRR report would argue that in recent years it has been policy to shift responsibility to individuals and/or institutions. As far as the individuals are concerned, I don't really agree with him. You can say that we have again become quite paternalistic in terms of financial risks for households and individuals. We are paternalistic about loan standards, with Nibud standards and LTV standards. We are paternalistic about the type of products that may be offered to consumers. The AFM is extremely critical of this. So we are becoming increasingly protective of the individual in the financial market and in financial products. The crisis really is a turning point. It is absolutely true that institutions in the public and semi-public sectors bear much more financial risks. That's what it's all about, for example, financing real estate. For example, in health care and MBO, this funding has really been transferred to the institutions. One must finance oneself in its entirety nowadays. That brings with it risks. Not all settings have been set up for this purpose. That's what the WRR warns of. I think this is really right. It leads many institutions to create individual buffers and reserves in order to be able to bear these kinds of risks. The question is whether this is the most efficient way to cope with risks in all sectors. There is therefore a accumulation of buffers at all kinds of settings. We will discuss this in our response to the WRR report. Mrs Vos once again called for additional investment. We are doing this, also in the way it advocates by attracting investment from companies or pension funds and removing bottlenecks. There's real potential there. They are prepared to do so. We are also doing it with public finances. I would like to point out that during the entire crisis under the Balkenende IV cabinet and then under Rutte I and Rutte II, infrastructure expenditure in the Netherlands remained at a very high level. That is virtually non-sustainable. Education has been cut, but a lot of money has also been added. In total, the budget for education has even increased slightly. Per student, the budget has even been shown to increase. So we have really protected the typical public investment in the entire storm of the crisis and the budgetary problems that have been there. Looking ahead, we're gonna support and provoke the right investments. I can assure Mrs Vos that sustainability is a major issue. We are very aware that the Paris agreements, to which we have committed ourselves with conviction, require major investment in society, from households, from homeowners and operators, from industry and from the government. That is a major funding issue and we are working on it. Mr Schalk referred to defence expenditure. He didn't actually ask a question, but he noted that we have a big task and we need to see how quickly we can make room for it. Finally. The central theme of the day was "self-reflection." We always have to work on ourselves. I did so today under guidance and instructions from the Chamber. At one point I thought: some self-reflection of the spokesmen on their actions in previous periods or at previous times, for example in their own election programmes and in the design of austerity, in short, some self-reflection on the side of the Chamber, would have been interesting as well. I certainly look forward to that at a subsequent debate, or perhaps in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u262	You're in the second term now, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u263	There is no longer a second term of office; you are absolutely right. So I keep my hope and hold on to the hope that that self-reflection will come at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u264	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all the speakers for both encouraging and critical remarks. Mr Postema asked me what the relationship should be between the vpb tariff and the level of provision. There is no direct relationship, of course, but a country that has more to offer does not need to become the discounter of Europe. The Netherlands is such a country, because the Netherlands has a lot to offer and we do not need to be the discounter of Europe. We are in principle very attractive to foreign investors for all kinds of other reasons, but the rate must of course be competitive in the mix. But our rate will never be the lowest in Europe. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked a similar question, symmetrically I would almost say, namely: what is the point? If we are allowed to choose, a competitive rate and countering unintentional avoidance deserve to be preferred to a rate that is strictly too high but which smart people try to get out of. I therefore believe that the first system should be preferred. The vpb tariff has a strong signal effect on foreign investment. It's something important that's being looked at. When we interview the NFIA, we see that the vpb tariff is important, and the NFIA also says that we do not need to be the discounter of Europe. Mr Schalk would like to have the research question for the Tax Plan. I can pass that request on to the Minister of SZW, but I think it would be more useful not to continue the debate on the question of research through me, because it is in fact a debate between Mr Schalk and the Minister of SZW. I am interested in it and want to convey all the messages, but the carrier pigeon function of course also hinders communication. I can suggest to Mr Schalk that he conduct this discussion directly with the Minister of SZW in the budgetary treatment of that Ministry, because at that time there is talk of income differences and work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u265	I understand that challenge, but then we'll be a few weeks away. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to perform that post pigeon function one more time and to pass that question on to SZW, so that that research question will arrive here in good time. As you know, last year the SGP Group voted against the Tax Plan. That had to do with a motion. There's a motion now, too. I find it extraordinary that the cabinet reacted very quickly by announcing on 1 November that an investigation will be carried out. So in mid-December we should be able to have such a note here, so that we know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u266	Clear. I am going to pass that on to the Minister of SZW and then it is up to Mr Schalk to see which arena he uses to discuss it. I shall therefore pass on this request. I heard Mr Van Rooijen suggest that the Minister of SZW should also be in the debate on the Tax Plan, but the invitation policy is up to him. We're just here to show up. I don't know if it's necessary, but it's up to this room. I understand his comment on the old-age discount. I am not a defender of cliffs; I do not use the word for nothing either. I'm just saying it's not settled overnight. Mr Ten Hoeve actually stated that the VAR was a barrier to enforcement. In fact, ten years have not been substantially maintained. Yes, you can now. The reason we are not doing it now is that the period is running, but it is possible for malicious parties to do so. Then there are the basic differences. Mr Ten Hoeve says a number of things about this, firstly that it would be a clearer system to have a common basis. That is the question, because the redistribution of profits between countries with a relatively arbitrary key does not necessarily make it easier. Then you also get that you don't determine on the basis of transfer pricing which profit belongs somewhere. For example, someone can influence the allocation of profits by entering into a merger. Those are also rather draconian influence mechanisms. I'm not convinced that this allocation makes it easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u267	Then the Secretary of State takes on the second element, namely consolidation. However, when it comes to the basis alone, it increases transparency. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u268	That's true. The cabinet does not reject this form of harmonisation, where tax avoidance is actually opposed. Not every difference in tax system leads to avoidance. I think we're getting closer here. The disadvantage of the system, whether you take the two c's or the three, is that, after analysis, it cannot be concluded that this clearly avoids circumvention. That's a bit of an objection. You could come up with other things that might affect avoidance a lot more than this. It's pretty draconian, because you intervene in a lot of systems, but it doesn't automatically or clearly lead to less avoidance. If we are talking about the basis, we are expressly not talking about the rate. The measures set out here do not relate to the tariff. This is a very different debate in which quite different sentiments play a role in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u269	I understand the Minister's giving an appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u270	I forgot, Mr. Chairman. That's a good use. The motion on letter J deals with the need for additional public investment and proposals for such investment. They must be submitted to this Chamber before the end of the cabinet period. Our proposals are contained in the Millions Note and the underlying departmental budgets. There is a great deal of public investment in this area, in many areas. On this point, we will not be submitting new budget proposals for the elections to this Chamber. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. What we will do before the end of the year is send our proposals for what I call the national investment bank to the Chamber, because I know that it attaches great importance to it. I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. The motion on letter K calls on the government to encourage pension funds to develop investment strategies. That's what pension funds do, but they do it themselves. We are not the board of pension funds. The Chamber should be very much against me if I wanted to take over the board of pension funds and define the investment strategies. At the same time, in terms of goods and sustainable destinations for investing pension capital, the funds are actively working on this. I do not feel that this should be promoted by the cabinet. However, we hope to involve the funds even further in investing in, for example, the energy transition that is needed. In other investments, I am thinking of the sustainable development of the economy. We are doing this, among other things, by working with them on the Dutch Investment Agency, which will soon be the new investment institution. That's how we do it. We are not going to encourage pension funds to develop strategies. They really do that themselves. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u271	Thank you. I'd like to ask you one more question, Minister. You promised me a few letters. At what time can the Chamber expect it to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u272	The letter on public funds for research and development can be quickly, let's say within a week. For the letter on the stabilisation of premiums and the use of reserves, I need the VWS Minister for this. So maybe it takes a little more time, indication a month, because I'm trying to protect her position, of course. The third letter deals with the discussion on the AOW, which is partly financed by general funds and what this means for workers and pensioners. That letter can be fast, too. In one to two weeks' time, we will send a firm letter on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u273	Thank you. Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u274	Thank you for the promise that that letter will come in a month's time, but it is a complex subject. The Minister himself indicated that. The quality of this should not get in the way of haste. In this context, new arrangements can also be made in the formation, so take your time. As far as I'm concerned, March 1st is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u275	I'll pass that on to the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u276	This Minister himself has some interest in it. I pointed out to him the consequences for budgetary stability and compensation. The Minister of Finance also has an interest in this. He's got to think about his inheritance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u277	Sure. Mr. Chairman. May I first congratulate you on your birthday and wish you many healthy years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u278	Thank you. It has indeed been a few minutes November 23rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-22-eerstekamer-6.u279	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
