ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Wilders, on behalf of the PVV Group, as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is an important debate. But allow me to begin with two congratulations. First of all, to the Prime Minister. I had a great laugh yesterday. He stood there with guts. It was bold. It was fantastic. I give him a sincere compliment. I'm gonna have a hell of a bone to top him next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u3	Secondly, congratulations to Mr Samsom. It's, I'm afraid, less fun. Great job. This week, your party chairman called me a threat to democracy and the rule of law. The party chairman in Katwijk immediately understood. He said he'd rather have a heart attack, but a bullet for Wilders is fine. Thank you, Labour Party. Now for the debate. The Dutch are abandoned. Their concerns about the continued influx of asylum are not taken seriously. Prime Minister Rutte leaves our borders wide open. That is why the Dutch are so angry. For months, the Prime Minister has been keeping the figures on that asylum tsunami under control. He's withholding information. Already on 16 September he knew that the forecast for the next five years could be 93.000 asylum seekers per year. But he didn't tell the room. He knew on the day of the General Reviews, but he didn't tell the Chamber. That's really unheard of. Also this week he comes up with bad information. He says that only a few hundred migrants are coming from Turkey to Greece, but on Monday there were almost 2,500 and Tuesday more than 3,600. Can this Prime Minister still be trusted? Meanwhile, the asylum seekers continue to come. Also returning Syrians simply let the Prime Minister enter our country without locking them in. That's how he plays with fire, with people's lives. His policy puts Dutch people at risk. I really blame him for that. Our society is torn apart and divided by a political elite who ignores and trivializes the legitimate concerns, despair and anger of a large part of the population. People often feel unsafe. They don't understand why we let so many people in. They don't understand why we give so much money to foreigners and why they get free care and free homes, while Dutch people are cut short on care and pensions, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u4	Can Mr Wilders give me an example of other politicians playing down the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u5	Well, what I've said here so many times. The Netherlands is crying for a different policy. You have to be almost blind not to see that people are clean enough that with them in the street... I believe that two out of three municipalities are now working on or already have asylum-seekers' centres. My mailbox is full of them. And in this House of Representatives little happens. You can see that the policy is not changing, that the coalition will only talk to the European partners, the Turks, with your support, Mr. Pechtold. But nothing changes; the borders are not closing and there is no change of policy. Every time people see more and more asylum seekers coming in. That's a lot of people who don't want to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr Wilders is already nuanced, and that is remarkable. He is now saying "a lot of people," while he was just talking about "the people," and about his mailbox. Next thing you know, he's gonna pull up his polls. I asked very specifically to give an example of others who trivialize. If you think you're on your side again, it's quite a reproach to say to the others that they don't interfere and that they don't come up with ideas. And then it's quite something to blame them for even talking to other Heads of Government and ministers about solutions. From his mouth that sounds like a reproach, but I think that is the start of solutions. Can Mr Wilders say specifically where one of us trivialized the problem before us today, so he laughed away, because that is 'bagallising'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u7	Yes: the big problems that the Netherlands has with the asylum influx. That's very broad, Mr. Pechtold. This concerns people who do not understand that their own risk in care is being increased, while asylum seekers receive free care. The point is that people do not understand that their child, who is on a waiting list, is studying and getting a job or whatever, has to wait for a home, while asylum seekers are given priority to this day. That may finally be changed, but that has been the case for a very long time. The point is that parents don't understand that. Today I received an anonymous e-mail from someone from The Hague. It said: I dare not let my daughter go to school anymore, because next month in her school complex a number of asylum seekers, young men, will be placed. It said: 'Can't do that, what are they doing, why isn't it discussed with us?' And: The city of The Hague does not listen to us, no one listens to us, we are not even taken seriously. That's what I'm talking about. We're gonna have to do it differently. And I'm not doing that wrong, but a big part of the Chamber here. I regret that, because it only leads to more anger and disgust of politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u8	Finally, I have the question to Mr Wilders............................................................................................................................................................................................ What does Mr Wilders contribute to the legitimate feelings of people? Or does he continue to generalize by saying things like: something is placed in a former school where there are many young men? Yeah, that happens in barracks and in other places, too. Then we will find the nuance, just like the mayor of Katwijk, who deals with this dossier on behalf of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and who is very open about, for example, the figures on crime. He holds it against the light, he is transparent in that and he is accountable for it. But at the same time he shows that they are not extreme compared to other figures. I therefore ask Mr Wilders what his contribution is to the tone of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u9	We say, as one of the few in this house, that it must stop and the borders must be closed. I'm sure millions of Dutch think so. I therefore find it inconceivable that a maximum of 10% of Members of Parliament have that view in this House. A lot of Dutch people don't understand that. That is our contribution: to say honestly what a lot of people think. They do not think that because they hate asylum seekers or because they do not think that asylum seekers should have a safe place, but because they do not understand that countries like Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, which are bursting with money, are doing nothing for their own people, so that they all come here. That's gotta stop, 'cause people don't accept that. I support these people and I support them in that. I'm proud of that contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u10	I would like to make it a little more concrete on the basis of an example given by Mr Wilders himself about women. In recent times, we have seen that Mr Wilders has done his work more outside than in the Chamber. For example, he handed out resistance spray in Spijkenisse to women and was met by feminists. My question to Mr Wilders is: what did he actually do in this Chamber to do justice to his position as the guardian of women?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u11	I do not condone the position of the guardian of women. I am just saying that it used to be the Labour Party, the party from which you, not me, come out who stood up for the women, for the homosexuals and for the people who are having a hard time. Let all those people, women, gays, people who are struggling, be the first to pay the price of the enormous shelter of people from Islamic countries. There, as we all know, people have some other ideas about how to deal with women. Women are often a lust object, a play object for many, not all, Arab men. Those are the facts. The same applies to homosexuals. The Labour Party, from which you come, leaves it and leaves those people in the lurch. The Party for Freedom stands up for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr Wilders is very predictable, so I have looked up the voting behaviour of Mr Wilders in a number of motions during the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u13	That's gotta be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u14	Mr Wilders voted against a motion by Mr Kooiman to remove the waiting lists for the reception of victims of abuse and loverboys, against a motion by Mr Karabulut on a national action plan for domestic violence, against a motion by Mr Sjoerdsma to tackle female circumcisions. I can go on for a while, because I have a whole list...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u15	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u16	... but of course you're not allowed to do that, Mr. President. What is Mr Wilders' response to this issue? He profiled himself as a fighter for the rights of women and gays, but his voting behaviour in the Chamber is very different from what he is trying to show here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u17	No, that's not true. For example, as long as I have been in this Chamber, I have broken a lance against female circumcision, first when I was in my previous party with Ayaan Hirsi Ali, and then with my own party, the Party for Freedom, which I founded. We always will. Perhaps we are not voting in favour of all the motions tabled by everyone, but if one party is in favour of the people who are victims of Islamization, it is my party. I'm proud of that, and you can't brush it away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u18	The vote by Mr Wilders shows the opposite. He must have kept a van of resistance spray, so if he is actually defending women's rights, he must first look into his own ranks, because two rows behind him is someone who is known as women's smearer. When you look at figures on sexual harassment against women, you see that a quarter of them happen within your own network. You don't need a single fugitive for that, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u19	The one the colleague is referring to is not here at the moment, so I do not think it is very nice; he cannot defend himself or make a personal statement. Then let me say on behalf of those people that this is bullshit. He's not a woman's puncher, and he never did. I'm embarrassed enough to have to say this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u20	I should also like to point out that it really has to be about the content and not about people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u21	I'd like to go to the content. I would also like to look forward and not just look back at the voting behaviour of the PVV. Suppose a victim of jihadism from Aleppo in Syria flees and arrives in Erdogan's Turkey, which Mr Wilders also has certain thoughts about, but he does not know himself safely and here calls on our hospitality. So what is the answer of the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u22	No, not here. We've got too much, we've got enough. Those people deserve a safe haven, those people deserve security, but they have to be in the region. It can't be here anymore. We're gonna have to take care of those people in the region. Whether that is in a European country, other than the Netherlands, like Greece, or whether it is, if it is Arabs, in Saudi Arabia or other countries there, we are at our tax and max. We're already doing a lot more than we can handle. I think other countries should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u23	There are many Christians in the Middle East. I spent years with them myself. These Christians are knocking on the door of the Netherlands, of which Mr Wilders, a self-proclaimed defender of Christian culture, dreams of being Prime Minister. Suppose there is someone who is a carrier of that Christian culture and who stands here in that ancient Christian tradition and says: I want to find a safe place to stay here. Is it then the case that Mr Wilders refers him to Saudi Arabia, where these people are unsafe or to Erdogan Turkey? Does the foreman of the Party for Freedom, who dreams about the premiership say: you are not welcome here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u24	What I'm saying is that there are plenty of countries that have the guts to say it in the Netherlands, you're going to get a trial on your pants just to say it. Slovakia, Hungary and other countries say: it is too far from our culture, we do not want Muslims in our country but Christians. Those countries are in Europe, they are in Eastern Europe. I heard the Prime Ministers of Slovakia, the Czech Republic and other countries say that. So there really is room in countries that say: we do not want people from Arab countries but Christians because of our culture. I would say, 'go there', because of course these people must have a safe place to stay. We can't handle these numbers. There's no support for it anymore. There's nothing worse than going through with that, because the citizen is quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u25	My question was not about thousands who would knock here, but about one person who is on the doorstep here, a Christian who is being persecuted because of jihadist Islam, and who is calling on Mr Wilders, a self-proclaimed defender of Christian culture. And from him, Mr Wilders says: you are not welcome here, you go, you go to Saudi Arabia, Turkey or other countries in Europe. I find that significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u26	I understand the Christian Union colleague doesn't like it. You repeat your question as if I had not said anything, but if you had listened carefully, you would not have had to do so. I didn't say that person would have to go to Saudi Arabia. I said if it's a Muslim, he can go there. I told you and I would like to do it again: let that person go to countries in Eastern Europe that have indicated that they do not want Muslims but Christians. Those countries are here. Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary open the doors to Christians. So that is a very different answer to what you summarised in the second instance, but I understand that this answer does not come from you. Mr. Chairman. If we had a direct democracy in the Netherlands, as in Switzerland, if we had a referendum in the Netherlands on asylum policy, I think the result would be that the cabinet would be corrected and the borders would be closed to asylum seekers. The Netherlands is becoming more unsafe every day. I'll mention all the police reports, the sex cases and the violent incidents. I understand that the figures we have on this are about what is happening in and around the azc's and therefore not about what is happening in buses, trains, shopping centres and wherever else, because that is still being investigated, I believe; it is also good that this is being investigated. At least the figures we have now are not complete. 10% of our police capacity is going there now, and I don't think we can accept that anymore. A lot of women feel unsafe here. They don't dare to go out on the street at night. I told you in an interrupting debate that women often don't dare to let their daughters go to school anymore. They can't defend themselves with pepper spray either. Lift up that pepper spray ban! I see I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u27	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u28	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u30	Okay, then I'm gonna have to skip a lot. Let me conclude by saying that a national variant would be the solution. I call on the Prime Minister to stop talking in Europe. We in the Netherlands do not need a European plan A or plan B or a plan Samsom or a deal with the Turks, who are actually blackmailing the European Union, which is going to cost us billions. If I can believe Reuters, but also today's Volkskrant, the Turkish President has said on television today that the moment is there, that he will soon open the gates for refugees to Europe, that he will saddle Europe with them. A day after the Turkish Prime Minister has been here, the Turkish President says he will open the borders. That's the kind of people we're dealing with. Do not rely too much on consultation with these countries leading to a result, because it does not. We must come up with our own plan, a plan N, a plan Netherlands, a plan that says no to all attempts with the European Union or Turkey or whatever, a plan that says yes to the Netherlands and to our own people. The Prime Minister knows that, as far as we are concerned, this is the plan: our borders are closed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u31	Yesterday we witnessed another fine fitty between Mr Wilders and in this case the Chairman of the Labour Party. Mr Wilders said: if there is a bullet, it says "PvdA." Tough as shit. I have a question for Mr Wilders. If there's a fugitive getting beat up somewhere these weeks, does it say "Geert Wilders" on the baseball bat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u32	You know, I'm always against violence. I have called upon you in this house and outside this house, and I hope you will take the trouble to check it out, to resist and to do so firmly. I have always said so, and I am doing so now, to do so without violence and democratically. Violence against anyone is never good. If anyone knows what it's like to live under the threat of violence, it's me. I made the comparison with the bullet, not because I like talking about bullets, on the contrary, I would rather never talk about it, but because the Chairman of the Labour Party did not associate my party, but personally with the rule of law and democracy, and said that I would be a danger to that. Then I thought of Pim Fortuyn. I'm not a Pim Fortuyn I know that very well but I was thinking about Pim Fortuyn and what happened when he was dehumanized by the Ad Melkelerts and the Marcel van Dammen. I won't repeat those quotes. Pim Fortuyn was put up as a bad guy. We have seen where that has led. At least that led to an atmosphere, an environment in which Pim Fortuyn was murdered. I said, watch that. Don't do that. You can talk about policy, you can talk about the party... so can I, and anyone who can hand out should be able to collect, but say this to the man... at Pim Fortuyn we have seen where that led. We shouldn't do that. So remember where that leads. Should it happen and should you, no, not you but the Labour Party continue to create this climate, then that bullet can come and that name is on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u33	If you're gonna punch yourself, you're gonna have to be able to cash in. I do not agree with you that you always keep it clean and that you never play the man. If you speak of "testosterone bombs," you create an image, you put refugees away as if they were a threat to our society. In that sense, I think the comparison is right. If you say that the bullet comes from one batch or from the left, if you say that, then you shouldn't measure it in two sizes. Then it is also true that at the time of the use of violence against refugees, the bat says "PVV" or your name. I would not like to say that, and I also think that we should be careful with that. I am very concerned about the distance that exists between people in the Netherlands, between you and my constituents. Together, we have a responsibility to ensure that these differences do not increase. Then it doesn't help us that, if you're getting tough on taste one time, you can argue with others and yell that if violence is used, it's the other's responsibility. Let's not do that, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u34	It is good to hear that the leader of GroenLinks is also against violence. You are, Mr Klaver, and that does not surprise me either. Actually, it's very common that we both are. We also signed a letter together once in which it was about that and I do not regret my signature for a second. What I've done is, again, compare it with what happened in the past to Pim Fortuyn. That is something I never want to forget, which we must never forget. If you make the comparison with those testosterone bombs... Yeah, do I have to explain that? Did you see what happened in Germany? Did you see what happened in Cologne? All over Germany, but only in Cologne, hundreds of women have been sexually assaulted and 30 people have been arrested. They're officially suspects. They haven't been convicted yet, but of those 30 suspects, everyone was North African and half of them were asylum seekers. Those were testosterone bombs! Those were people who weren't very close to what we thought of women and who saw them as lust objects. So that term of mine, it fits like a bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u35	The point is that you didn't address the guys who did this as "testosterone bombs." Then I couldn't argue with you. 800,000 refugees have entered Germany. Sixty thousand refugees came in here last year, and you shackled everyone, all men, in that corner. You said that we should prevent all men coming to the Netherlands from being locked up in asylum seekers' centres, because they are testosterone bombs. That is why the comparison I'm making is indeed relevant. That is why I say to you, Mr Wilders: do not measure with double standards. Do not point out that you are being demonized and that you are at risk because you are also putting away individuals and people as if they were all testosterone bombs. That is why I say: what you do not want to happen, do not do to anyone else. You cannot blame a party or a person for putting you at risk if you yourself put refugees at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u36	I'm not putting anyone in danger! I'm not putting refugees at risk. I never threatened anyone or yelled at anyone, or I know anything. I never did, and I never will. I do think that the safety of women and the daughters of all of us in the Netherlands is more important than the rights of asylum seekers. I know that not all asylum seekers are testosterone bombs or rapists, but I do know that I do not want what happened in Germany to happen here. If there is even 10% in between and I can stop in the Netherlands what happened in Germany by preventing them from being detained in the Netherlands, that is a tough measure, but I am defending it with caution. I do not want what has happened in Germany to happen here. I don't want women being assaulted when they haven't done anything. I believe that we should protect the Netherlands from this. The best way to do that, Madam President, if I may say that last, is of course to close our borders. If it were up to the PVV, they wouldn't be here. Then the boundaries would have closed. They wouldn't have come here. Now that you have supported the cabinet, not all of you, but almost all of you, in order to leave the borders open, we must look for solutions. And please: I'm cleaning up your mess, so don't blame me for coming up with solutions, because I do that to clean up your mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u37	All this talk about bullets and the like, I don't think it belongs here at all. I say that to Mr Wilders and to the others. When it comes to security, that is a very different story than that we are working for the Netherlands to solve the refugee problem, I say to everyone. What I find very strange in this connection is that Mr Wilders was with his friends in Milan last week, I believe, and that he was already building on what he is now saying as 'the next year I am going to make that speech for those journalists'. He said if the PVV becomes the biggest and we don't get into the government, then a rebellion could break out. Known language of Mr Wilders. He pretends not to say it, but he's the first one to suggest it. Doesn't he find it very strange to be the first to warn against a rebellion in a climate in which we want to ensure that we deal democratically and peacefully with each other if he doesn't get what he wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u38	A "revolte" is not such a scary word at all. I'm getting a little tired of it. I have just told a journalist, I believe from the NIS, that I will be taken the measure when I use words that others use. "Revolte" is a very normal word and it has nothing to do with violence. I was thinking, did I say something crazy with "revolte"? So I went Google and that gave results from all kinds of different parties. Jan Marijnissen wrote in a column just after the 2005 referendum: the revolt of European citizens started just in time. Hans van Mierlo said in 1968, when D66 was really a party that also went for direct democracy: we must make a revolution before it breaks out with peaceful means. No one's ever said anything about that before. I have here a book by Mr Couwenberg about Pim Fortuyn entitled Civil Uprising, the Fortuyn Revolt. None of that has anything to do with violence. When people from the SP and from D66 say "revolte" and when people write books, there's nothing wrong, nobody asks, but if Wilders says it, it's immediately dangerous and it's wrong. That's bullshit! A rebellion just means people get angry. Of course they must be able to express that. They can do that by demonstrating, by voting differently. It can be done in a democratic and non-violent way. The idea that there is something of violence behind me at once is a bad suggestion and pure nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u39	That's a long answer, but I didn't put the word "violence" in my mouth. I did take the following in my mouth. If there is to be a democratic government after elections, a party should not invoke or claim in advance that there can be a revolt. Then the party has to say something else: let us all realise that it is a democracy and accept the government when there comes any cabinet after the elections. You should have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u40	I said what I said for good reason. I've said a lot of people won't understand it as a party... It's a long way from that. I walk long enough to know that polls are just polls and that it can all change. You have to fight for it every day. So it's not that far. I don't think the champagne's gonna open yet. What if it comes to this? If we were to get as many seats as we have in the polls now, I think a lot of Dutch people wouldn't understand if parties sidelined us because we didn't take something back or because we said something. It is not Geert Wilders or it is not the PVV, but it is the voters who will not be taken seriously. They went to the voting booth. Some have voted CDA and a lot more people voted for the PVV. If they're not taken seriously, it's not funny. Then people will be dissatisfied with it and there could be a revolt. As far as I am concerned, I said it right away, but that was not necessary at all in a democratic and non-violent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u41	I hate what happens to Mr Wilders. I'll be the last to wish him the same. I note, however, that I am actually complimenting the Labour Summit Party, although I am not aware of the fact that the PvdA summit distanced itself from the words of the President in Katwijk. Mr Wilders calls for democratic resistance. That's his right. But there are people in this country who do not understand so well that Mr Wilders says: you can all get the rambam. What's his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u42	"You can have the rambam," I did say to politics and press around Christmas because I refuse to apologize for something I'm not responsible for. If you had not heard me say here when I first called for resistance that this should be democratic and non-violent, you would have had a point, but I did. I will always do so, and it is therefore unjustified. I'd like to respond to you in person. I think you're a little more beautiful than you are. You called me a tumor, you called me a cancer. I am more used to it now, but don't pretend to be everyone's saint, because you're just the example of how we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u43	Those were equations. Mr Wilders knows very well what these comparisons mean. In the past, for example, he has said that Islam is the growth in our society and so on. These are all words on Mr Wilders' behalf. I'll come back to my point. The PvdA distanced itself from something that they resented. The people in Heesch, Woerden and Purmerend who make it impossible for local representatives to do their job, don't vote for the PvdA. They don't vote for the SP, GroenLinks or us. They probably vote for the PVV. Does Mr Wilders refuse to accept his responsibility by telling his own constituents that they simply should not do so anymore? It's not that hard, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u44	I'm not responsible for something I didn't do and I didn't call for. I've always talked about "peaceful," so this really doesn't make any sense, with all due respect, as far as I can tell you. I'll come back to what you said before. You said you talked about Islam. I did say that, but you said something about me as a person. We attack each other hard here in this house when it comes to our ideas and our party. I am the first to do so, but it goes beyond all limits to say that it is the same thing to say something about Islam or about me. You said that Mr Wilders is a mass that needs to be removed. You're lucky I'm still here to see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr Wilders is free to speak to me or not. In fact, this is the question I asked him and he refuses to answer. I asked him to distance himself from all the people who storm asylum centres, say the most horrible things about asylum seekers and immigrants on the streets and shout the most terrible things about Wilders. He doesn't take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u46	This is the third time you've asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u47	That's right, but he refuses to answer, Mr. Chairman. So I'm gonna ask him again. Do you distance yourself from that, yes or no? You can now say that you do not do yes/no questions, but do so now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u48	I've already given the answer twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u49	I'm not interrupting. I'm sighing. I stand here with a heavy heart, because it was indeed a party mate of mine who wished Wilders with a crazy tweet dead and I am embarrassed for that. I should of course have known that Mr Wilders would make a number of them in this debate, and then I would have known that others would make a number of them, so that Mr Wilders could make another number of them. For 15 minutes now, we have been giving each other all kinds of treats, while we are trying to find a democratic solution to one of the biggest problems facing the Netherlands. My party was involved in that, too, so I care too. I call on everyone to talk about the content now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u50	That seems to me to be a very good idea, but words are not without obligation, Mr Samsom. Words and threats can make people lose their freedom. It's not the first time people from the Labour Party have said these things to me or my party. You must allow me to say this, Mr President, because it affects me. Not only did your party chairman say that I am a danger to democracy, but also a colleague of yours, Member of Parliament Jan Vos, said in September last year that a text that I spoke out, I quote, shows 'characteristics of fascist leadership'. A member of the central board of the Labour Party, Mr Fouad Sidali, has said, I quote a tweet from him of 13 March 2014, "Hitler is among us. In the form of Geert Wilders." It's not an incident. There's a line of PvdA people, a central board member, the chairman of the central board, the party chairman, a member of parliament, who only compares with Hitler, fascism and I know what else. Let us talk about the content if you have your club in order and this is not done in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mr. Chairman. After this usual raving, I can be the first in hopefully a long line of speakers who agree on one thing: the refugee crisis does not call for political hacking, but for practical solutions. That is what is best for both refugees and the Dutch. Those very ordinary Dutch people, that silent majority, rightly do not feel represented by those who spread blind images of fear, but do not recognize themselves in those who say it does. As parties that stand for that often silent majority, let us not take advantage of each other or catch each other in accusations. That is why I appreciate Mr Samsom's plan. Any contribution that pretends not to be the solution, but puts humanity and justice first, deserves that appreciation. Only by working together across political boundaries can we manage this problem. The Prime Minister has a crucial role to play in this. I regularly speak to local administrators, people who take responsibility locally for refugees, for decent care, for integration and for the care of local residents. They are people who need a Prime Minister who stands behind them, who offers clarity and who communicates honestly about what awaits us. But what do they get? A Prime Minister who magics with figures, a Prime Minister who prefers his political reality to the reality that everyone in the Netherlands has to deal with every day. Mr. Chairman. Remember Prince's Day? Then we got the 2016 budget, with the absurdly low estimate of 26,000 asylum seekers for this year. The entire opposition doubted that. At the time, I said that in order to maintain support, the estimates must be realistic. The Prime Minister said very loudly: at the moment, this is the estimate we are working with and in which we have confidence. "Trust," an interesting word. That is certainly the case now that it is clear that the day before this confidence was expressed there was already a note on Security and Justice in which officials clearly stated that the 2016 asylum estimate would be 93,600. That's almost four times as much. During the General Political Reviews, however, one day after that memo, the Prime Minister says very nicely: 26.000 is what we work with and I am confident in that. My question is whether the Prime Minister knew of this note of 16 September. Was he already familiar with the estimate of 93,600 and, if not, why not? And if so, why did he choose an estimate that is almost four times lower? I'd like a response. Four weeks ago, the Prime Minister made another promise. Within six to eight weeks, the asylum influx would be zero. Yesterday he claimed that the influx into Greece is indeed decreasing. There are only a few hundred a day, I quote. No one knows this trend. The European Commission says the opposite. The United Nations does not recognize the figures, nor does Frontex. Can the Prime Minister corroborate his claim? I'd like an actual reaction. There was more said yesterday. The Turkish Prime Minister claimed that major steps towards accession were taken in the discussion with our Prime Minister. On the other hand, our Prime Minister said that there was no mention of human rights. Over and over again, the Chamber has asked not to negotiate with the strict requirements for Turkey's accession to the EU. I ask the Prime Minister what steps have been taken in that discussion. He's not going to negotiate with the clear demands we've made as Europe, is he? Mr President, I will conclude. Tell the Prime Minister to stop the masquerading numbers. Let's focus together on viable solutions. Use the Dutch Presidency for action on the European distribution key, for well-functioning hotspots and for a true European border and coast guard. Let us together ensure that the silent majority in the Netherlands feels increasingly louder and better represented by everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr. Chairman. Spring is coming and that is usually an attractive prospect. Now, however, I am very concerned because it is likely to lead to a huge increase in the number of asylum seekers moving towards Europe and towards the Netherlands. They are asylum seekers who want to build a better life in our free Western society. I understand that very well, but at the same time I can see that it is impossible. We simply cannot accept all these asylum seekers and integrate them into our society. That is why we need to control the flow of asylum. The limits of the capacity of our society have already been reached in sight and in some places. Municipalities are finding it increasingly difficult to arrange shelters. Residents of these municipalities are rightly concerned about their environment, as witnessed the recent protests in Utrecht, Heesch and Enschede, for example. The police have hardly any capacity to maintain order, with the result that residents evenings such as recently in Enschede have to be cancelled because the safety of those present cannot be guaranteed. The rack's out. We politicians have a responsibility to intervene before borders are actually crossed. That is why I am pleased that our Prime Minister has said so clearly that the numbers should fall by mid-March. The VVD prefers to achieve this through a European solution. We would rather stop asylum seekers at the European external border than at our own border. I would like to hear from the cabinet the situation with regard to the European agreements. Do I understand correctly that the cabinet supports the sealing of the border between Greece and Macedonia? Will the agreements with Turkey work and when will the cabinet move on to other measures? I assume it won't wait until mid-March. The VVD also wants to give the European agreements a serious opportunity in the coming weeks. But if this does not reduce the flow of asylum, we will also have to take other measures. In this respect, as far as the VVD is concerned, no measure is in advance excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u54	Threatening words and short deadlines, while this is a long-term problem and as far as I am concerned, no threatening words. I also do not think it fits for the VVD that has talked about limits to carrying capacity over the last few weeks and that the Netherlands is unable to handle it and is becoming full. The border has been reached; I quote Mr Zijlstra himself. But the VVD does deliver the Prime Minister, she knows he is negotiating and she knows with all of us that the feasibility of refugee flows is limited. But again and again scaring the Netherlands by saying that there is no support, doesn't help either. If Mr Zijlstra says that in a few weeks' time there will be other measures, I would also like to know what they will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u55	Just because we want to give European solutions the chance to succeed, I am not going to say whether it should be X or Y. I say the opposite, because as far as we are concerned, no measure is excluded in advance. It is a responsibility of all politicians, including Mr Pechtold, not to wait until spring, when the power rises again and the numbers go to many thousands a week as in autumn. That's not scary, that's just reality. We should not wait for that. We will then find ourselves in situations where we are no longer able to receive these people properly and perhaps even more out of control. That is something we must avoid. That's when we cross borders. It is our job as politicians to prevent us from crossing those borders, those borders that are sometimes reached and sometimes approached, that is what I am saying here as a VVDer. That's not scary, but that's realism. That's watching what happens and taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u56	A border is a very specific thing. However, the VVD does not identify the limit of the permissible, the feasible, the support or whatever that is. It then combines an atmosphere of 'this goes beyond us' with the statement that it gives the cabinet a few weeks to settle it in a European context. How can you have a good border and coast guard in a few weeks? How can we set up hotspots in Europe in a few weeks, the places where the shelter is concentrated and where it is registered, so that they function? We cannot even do that here, let alone in cooperation with countries like Turkey, with which it is very difficult to negotiate. I ask for the level of reality and once again I ask for the draconian solutions that Mr Zijlstra still has in his sleeve if he threatens to 'allow everything'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u57	I don't use the word "draconian." When it comes to creating atmosphere, Mr Pechtold is doing a great deal for that right now. I say that as far as the VVD is concerned, you should not rule out measures in advance, because the problem is so big that you don't have that luxury. You will then, if cases arise, weigh any measure. However, we are not ruling anything out in advance. There is also talk of setting boundaries. We've been working on this for a while. A year ago, the VVD presented a plan to deal with this problem. That plan then went into the trash bin about Chamberwide by turning mail. I am pleased to note that the Chamber has now moved a long way. That is because reality actually overtakes us. At some point, the Prime Minister was talking about six to eight weeks. Then we arrive at mid-March, so at the beginning of the spring flow you can expect if the European deal with Turkey does not help to improve the situation between Greece and Turkey. The Prime Minister said that those numbers should go down. Moreover, I do not think the Prime Minister has said that we should go to zero. He said, by that time, there must be a decline. It seems to me to be very sensible to maintain this, because if we find ourselves in a situation in which we are too late, and the refugees come here with many thousands a week, or perhaps even a day, then we can no longer cope with it. Then we haven't taken our responsibilities sufficiently. Then people go out on the street and there are unsafe situations. Then we call too much on the capacity of society. I'd like to avoid that. That's why I'm clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u58	Last year, Mr Zijlstra said that the number of refugees coming to the Netherlands this year will be as high as the number of inhabitants of the city of Utrecht. Mr Zijlstra knows Utrecht, I know a little less. However, I do know that there are about 350,000 people living in that city. That didn't happen. I am talking about Mr Zijlstra's atmosphere. But now I'm just getting a little more specific. Mr Zijlstra says that all measures will be open to the VVD in a few weeks' time. Now we all know that there is one party that says: the Netherlands must close the borders. We know about 400 official border crossings in the Netherlands and there are also all fields that you can walk through. Does Mr Zijlstra consider it possible for the Netherlands to close its borders in a few weeks or a few months' time? That is a political idea that lives in the Chamber. Mr Zijlstra himself says: anything is possible. Or does he agree with me that closing the borders is unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u59	If you say you don't rule out any measure in advance, you don't rule out any measure in advance. Then you're going to see what's needed in the situations that occur at the time. I think that's very clear. I'm not gonna peel off every measure. It may well be that at such a time you say about a particular measure: well, it may not be proportionate, given the problem. But sometimes the problem can be so big that you have to take far-reaching steps. I also say to Mr Pechtold: it is the responsibility of politicians to take the necessary measures when they see problems coming. You have to be willing to do that. That willingness has the VVD. We had it a year ago. I am pleased that many parties also want to take far-reaching responsibility. I expect the cabinet and Europe to try to ensure that the deal with Turkey succeeds. That's a good route. I see that the Prime Minister is making a great deal of effort. However, we also need to look further. It's quite a long coastline that needs to be guarded. If that deal doesn't work out and we can't do it, we should also be prepared to opt for other solutions. Once again, I am not ruling out any measure in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u60	Less influx of refugees and asylum seekers into Europe, and more commitment to providing security in the region itself. That included the Azmani plan from earlier. Is there a bit of a European shot in the preparation of this VVD plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u61	Just before I was interrupted, I asked a question to the cabinet. What about the agreements with Turkey? What is the situation with regard to the development of these European agreements? That is very important. I sincerely hope that will succeed. I am also saying this because of another problem that arises here, namely how we maintain European cooperation in a good way. However, I cannot say that we wait until it works. I can't say that because of the responsibility that the VVD feels. Because if it doesn't work for two years, we're too late. So it also needs to be checked whether it works and whether it works on time. The Prime Minister has made clear statements on this matter. If it does not work in time, or if it does not work properly, then we must also have the willingness to take other measures. The VVD has that willingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u62	From the fact that Mr Zijlstra says that he will ask the cabinet for it, I in any case deduce that he himself does not think it very clear what progress is being made in Europe. I share that with him, but what kind of measures does he think of? Should it be said to smaller countries, for example to Greece, that they can no longer belong to Schengen if these external borders are not put in order? What am I supposed to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u63	That's why I said what I said. I am not ruling out any measure in advance. I would like to weigh every measure that is being taken at one point, namely: is this measure effective in controlling the influx of asylum seekers? I believe that this is the main responsibility we have, and I will look into it. Again, if anything at that point is effective, then we must be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u64	It is a good starting point not to rule anything out in advance, but has the VVD Group recently seen plans come along that it says: hey, that will help to achieve our goal of reducing influx towards Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u65	We submitted a plan ourselves a year ago, which can work extremely well. I've heard colleagues scream things that can work. We do depend on the cooperation of the Turkish authorities, to name but a few, or the Greek authorities. So we're not all in control of it ourselves. That is why I hope that the European solution will work, but we do not have it under control here. If it does not work properly, then we also have a national responsibility. Then we must also ensure that our welfare state, our society, stays on track. If this is not possible through European cooperation or by protecting the European external borders, then you will find yourself in a different situation. I hope we can stay out of it, but if we see in the long term that the European solution is not yet working or not working properly and that the numbers of refugees are rising, which you can see coming in spring, then we still have a responsibility not to wait. Then we must show, also towards the citizens of the Netherlands, that we are also prepared to take that responsibility here and that we do not just hope that Europe will solve it for us, because then we would run away from our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u66	Mr Zijlstra outlines threatening scenarios and talks about a great responsibility of us to deal with them in a responsible manner. Part of the VVD's plan is reception in the region. We know that shelter isn't free. We also know that there are military developments in Syria around Aleppo that will increase the influx. Turkey's influx to Greece is still not declining. The influx from the source of all misery, the war in Syria, will probably only increase. If financial priorities are to be re-established in the Spring Paper, is the commitment of the VVD Group to additional funding for reception in the region and for the care of refugees there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u67	It's already been done. Where necessary, we will also have to continue to take that responsibility. I thought the Prime Minister put it very nicely. He said, of course, you cannot blame Turkey for not doing anything. There are a few million refugees there. This is a responsibility that Turkey is taking on, and it is making a great deal of effort to do so. If we want to prevent people from running, for example to Europe, there are several ways to ensure that they do not go here. One of them is to ensure that reception in the region is decent. That is also at the heart of the plan presented by the VVD a year ago. So yes, that responsibility must be taken by the Netherlands. I think we're in the lead, but I'd like to hear that from the cabinet. If efforts are needed in this area over the next few years, I say just keep doing so, because if people are properly taken care of, there is less chance that they will want to get there, with all the dramatic consequences of that such as sinking boats and dead people. We'd better avoid that by leaving them there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u68	Refugees are there but they can't do anything. They can't go to school, they can't work, and they have no status. So it is a rather hopeless situation that causes people to run and go to Europe, where they can do something. We have made a mistake by thinking for years: well, they are there in Turkey; that is a kind of natural state and it will take its time. But they came this way and then we are in the debate we are having today. We cannot now make the mistake that we made yesterday and the day before yesterday by not making any extra money. It is not just about Turkey; it is also about Lebanon and Jordan. Let me ask you one more time: if the Spring Paper really shows that we need to go deeper into the pouch, is the VVD Group prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u69	I think I've already answered that question. The answer to that question is yes. Where this is necessary, we will have to do so, if only to ensure that people who are in refugee camps do not walk. I can say it again, but Mr Segers has already taken the booty. Be happy about that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u70	"More money" is not quantitative; it is a fairly open concept. We're really gonna have to discuss what that is. I'd like to start that debate. However, it is also Lebanon and Jordan. We've made agreements with Turkey. Europe has promised 3 billion to Turkey, but not to Lebanon and Jordan. But that's where the dikes are jumping on. We're talking about care in the region. Where in the past there was insufficient money, and where in counter-budgets only two parties made additional money, we will now have to make different choices. I understand that we are still talking about that. However, the need is very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u71	I want to focus on what needs to be achieved by mid-March. Then spring begins and then the elections in Germany, which is not insignificant in all of this. Is it about getting that power under control, or is it about reducing the flow and reducing the number of refugees coming in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u72	Those two things coincide. If we want to control the flow of refugees, the numbers will have to decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u73	I ask this question because the reports of the officials state that the flow of refugees is rather policy-resistant and that only very draconian measures can prevent these people from heading this way. What hope does Mr Zijlstra have that the numbers have decreased in mid-March? I think we can manage to gain more control over the flow in the near future, about the way people get here, so that things are less chaotic and the flows through Europe may be broken. However, the fact that fewer refugees are coming to Europe, at least within eight weeks, seems rather unrealistic to me. If we fail to do so, I am very afraid of measures such as closing the Dutch borders. This would be detrimental to European cooperation, but also to an economy like the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u74	Once again, we sincerely hope that the European solution will work at our external borders. That solution is based on the fact that we are stopping the flow of refugees there and sending the people back, in this case to Turkey. However, we must not close our eyes to the fact that there is a risk that this will not work or will not work. I saw an interview with colleague Samsom on a beach from where they left. He didn't see them leave, but still boats left that night. This shows how difficult this issue is, even for the Turks, despite the efforts they are making. We also have a national responsibility. If the numbers are rising again in spring, so I have laid the border by spring. We have a responsibility. If we see that happening, the borders will be reached very quickly here. In the autumn, the buses drove back and forth looking for emergency locations to catch people. I think that Mr Klaver, like me, does not want us to get into the situation where buses go nowhere at all, but end up in a meadow where people have to sleep. That too is an end to support. An end to acceptance is also what Dutch citizens still want to accept. If you go over that, you're farther away from home, even as far as integrating groups into this society is concerned. We must take all these things seriously here. We also have to take responsibility for it, because when it does, we are too late. I say don't wait until it's too late, but see if the Turkish route works. If it doesn't work properly, we need to take other measures. I don't rule out anything in advance. However, that does not mean that I accept everything. Then you have to look openly at all the measures: what does not work and what does not work. After all, we need to get it under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u75	The note to which I referred and which deals with the projections of the inflow, also warns about the waterbed effect. Imagine if you manage to reduce the crossing in one place, for example from Turkey to Greece, then the Italians will think: if they succeed, we will get more refugees in again. What worries me is that this stream of refugees is coming to Europe. That's not because it's so fantastic here. They mainly come to Europe because they are pushed away and because they are threatened in their safety. The choice for the country they are going to in Europe is based on where they have the best prospects for the future. We must ensure that there is support in the Netherlands. It is very bad when one night you have to rob a village and say: sorry, here you have 700 refugees; good luck with it. I do not think we are doing that by predicting that we are going to try to get fewer refugees to Europe, but we will also have to take the pouch and pay more money for that. I am concerned that the COA still says that the lower limit is 300 refugees per shelter because it costs more money if you want to receive fewer refugees per location. Is Mr Zijlstra prepared to pay more money for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u76	It starts with the question of how many reception locations you can create at all and in how many municipalities there is still support among residents to do so. In some municipalities there is still support, but not in others. There really is an end to the support of Dutch society and also to the integration power of our society. Mr Klaver can review any sociology report: large groups do not integrate. Large groups that come new in a society, segregation. If we really want refugees who come here to have a place in Dutch society, build a life here and do not end up in a benefit and a hopeless existence, then they must integrate. I therefore very much agree with the policy of the Cabinet to ensure that this starts quickly. But the bigger we make that group, the less chance it's gonna work. That too is something we have to face. We shouldn't all be acting like we're not. It's just a law of law and it's been proven many times in history. That is what we must take into account in our choices. The VVD says this means there's an end to the amount of people you can record. Morally that might be something you don't want at all; I understand that. But between finding something moral and the reality of the day in what you can handle, sometimes there's a big hole. The latter will have to be taken into account. The VVD does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u77	My party was one of the first to say here that this integration must be done very quickly and that people who come here must be able to work and go to school, as the language and our values and values must be taught. You have to start right away. And yet I agree with Mr Zijlstra that it will be a hell of a task to integrate everyone here. Mr Zijlstra is constantly talking about acceptance that is not there. I find it interesting that when you talk to people who are so angry, just about the refugees who are coming, they usually say: I am not involved in the decision-making, I think there are too many, it should be more honest about the city or about the Netherlands. The conclusion that I draw from this is that there is quite a support for receiving refugees, but that it must be well organised and preferably as small-scale as possible and fairly distributed across the Netherlands. I am concerned when I hear back from our aldermen that it is almost impossible to find out with the COA about small locations, where the COA uses the argument that they cost so much money, that there are not really the means to arrange the shelter small-scale and that it does not have enough people. The final basis of support that exists in the Netherlands is not an established one. You and I can create that, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u78	That was an argument, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u79	In any case, I do not have such a belief in the feasibility of Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u80	We have heard the VVD talk a lot about the rack that is out and the maximum number that the Netherlands can handle. We just never heard a number. I would ask Mr Zijlstra once again, just as I did during the General Reviews, which according to the VVD is the maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands can handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u81	Mr Van Klaveren receives the same answer as in the General Reviews. I'm not gonna name a number. The moment when a number is reached is decisive. When you have a very quiet, gradual influx, you can handle more people than when you get a peak at once and a lot of people come here in one, two weeks. Then it's easy to say that we're on the border and that it's done, but unfortunately it's not that simple. I know, however, that every asylum seeker we get less will make more police capacity available for other things, less problems will arise in terms of benefits, welfare state and housing. In the end, those are the weighting we have to do. Exactly what we can handle is really not a law of Medes and Persians, but there is a limit. The cabinet has already indicated in the past that it is going to look at what Dutch society can do in this respect, for example as regards education and housing. After all, these people need a place to live. However, in a short space of time, we cannot stomp a few cities out of the ground. In addition, it is also the question of where these cities should be, as we still want to keep nature reserves. Those are all considerations that play along, so you can't say exactly what the number is. But it's true there's a limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u82	That is a lot of hollow words, with which the VVD ultimately only states that there is a limit. However, that party does not know where the border is. Austria has clearly indicated how many asylum seekers that country wants to receive this year. What prevents the VVD, like Austria for example, from saying what the maximum number for this year is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u83	I'm not in favour of mentioning numbers and counting. The cabinet has responsibility for the VVD also assumes that responsibility to intervene when it sees that the end of the acceptance is in sight, for example because there is a sharp increase in numbers at once. However, I am not in the mood for countdowns. I don't want to say: you come up with so much or so much. Unfortunately, I cannot give Mr Van Klaveren that pleasure today. All I can tell him is that there are limits. If we see it coming, we'll intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u84	Of course, it's not about the fun of anything. This is a very serious problem. However, the question is very simple: according to the VVD, what is the maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands can handle? The VVD has indicated that it does not want to answer that question. However, Austria has clearly indicated the number of asylum seekers it wants to receive this year. Why doesn't the VVD want to mention the number that that party thinks we can handle this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u85	We don't, because the number isn't exactly prickable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u87	It's very simple. Last year we got 58.000 or almost 59.000. We are not going to sustain that number in a structural way. That's gonna have to go downstairs. I made that clear. It's up to the Cabinet to see what's possible, apart from all kinds of ideologies and things like that. How many homes can you realize, for example? What can you do? Are we going to reduce benefits if more people end up in benefits because there is no more budget? Those considerations must all be made. And at some point, you say, "This is where we reach the border." I'm not exactly gonna prick that moment. But that the number is lower than it is now, let us be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u88	Finally, would you like to respond, Mr Van Klaveren? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u89	Well, it's not an answer to the question, but I didn't expect otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u90	I suggest you move on, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u91	The VVD wants refugees to be taken care of in their own region. Refugees must always be protected. However, they do not need to have the right to asylum, especially outside their own region. Let us be honest with each other: the people who come here in large numbers do not do so because there is no safe place for them in their own region. They do so because there is a better economic perspective for them and their children in Europe and the Netherlands. That's incredibly understandable. Everyone will understand that. But as much as I understand it, it's an unsustainable situation. That is why we need to adapt European legislation and, if necessary, the Refugee Convention in this respect. We must also make it clear that there is no place in our country for asylum seekers who have been tried. Yesterday my colleague Azmani asked the Secretary of State about the arrangements to be made with the municipalities. He asked this because there were signs that municipalities are not prepared to reach an agreement. I hope that the Secretary of State will answer these questions soon. After all, when large numbers of asylum seekers come here, we are not waiting for outlaws who refuse to leave. I told you, spring is coming. That's no surprise. Nor should the increase in the flow of asylum that may result from this be a surprise. The numbers have to go down. If this is not achieved through European intervention, it must be done through national intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u92	It is right that Mr Zijlstra should not be stuck on a number for the future. That would be workability. However, the cabinet should provide us with good information on expert assessments. My group has noticed the following. During the General Political Reviews of 16 and 17 September, quite a few political groups, including mine, asked about the assessments. Mr Zijlstra just said that the number last year was 58 000 or 59.000. That's a number we saw a little bit of coming at the time. For this year, however, the cabinet accounted for half of that number: 26.000. At that time, however, there was already a memo on the Ministry of Security and Justice with expert estimates, in which a number of 93,600 were discussed for 2016. The funny thing is that this memo was dated on all the pages on September 16th, so that was the first day we debated here, but it's on the front page the date of September 22nd. It is of course very nice to have such a memo right after the reflections as an official letter. How does Mr Zijlstra feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u93	First of all, I think this is particularly wanted. Mr Pechtold and I have both been directors. I think that this would be the first time that a policy piece that was apparently produced in the official mill on the day of a debate would have found its way all the way to the top of the ministry. To be honest, that has never turned out to me. But I'm also saying something else. I also think it's the cabinet's job to make sure we don't go on... what was it in any of those scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u94	Not in any of those scenarios, but this is now the official number: 93,600.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u95	I also think it is up to the cabinet not to resign in 93 600 refugees. We would now have a completely different debate if the cabinet had accepted and implemented it. In our opinion, government policy is also intended to cover the measures taken in recent days and which have been announced earlier in order to ensure that this flow is controlled. The Prime Minister will have to answer about that piece, because I don't know it. I hear that, but I can give you one thing, as a result of this interruption: if the cabinet had been in office and had sent a piece to the Chamber somewhere in September that would be budgeted at 93,600, it would have had a big problem with the VVD. I am pleased that the cabinet has not done so and that the policy is aimed at bringing it down and getting it under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr Zijlstra walks away from the question I ask him. Firstly, we are not talking about the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of the Interior, where we were directors, but about Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u97	I rest my case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u98	That is not the department where the best notes always come from piously and clearly. Secondly, we are talking about the word 'trust', which the Prime Minister took in his mouth when we were asking through, not only me, but also other group chairmen, about the number of 26 000 that the cabinet mentioned at that time. "Trust" is also such a word that they sometimes use with V and J in numbers that later turn out to be different. At that time, the entire cabinet was in that business here, during those General Political Reviews. In questioning, questioning, the Prime Minister insisted that it was realistic to consider 26,000 asylum seekers by 2016. I think it is a major problem that at that time the Chamber could or should have received other information on the assessments made by the experts who were almost four times higher. Mr Zijlstra uses great words, but I think that this kind of information should have come to the Chamber when that information was available. Does Mr Zijlstra share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u99	If Mr Pechtold had asked me the question: do you think that the cabinet should at all times fill in its obligation to inform the Chamber, then the answer is, of course, yes. But frankly, I'm slightly confused. We have a whole history with the department of V and J. A common thread in that history is that there is not always the greatest speed in reaching the summit at parts that are in the official mill, so to speak. Now Mr Pechtold suggests that it would have been possible in the same ministry in this case that the piece would have ended up at the top of the cabinet on the day it was produced. That would have been a trend break. I wish it were true. If that is true, I would like to hear it from the Prime Minister, because he would indeed have had to give another answer in the Chamber. Honestly, given the history on this file, I find it more likely that the piece had not yet penetrated into other departments and into subject-K. If so, I share Mr Pechtold's conclusion that it should have been shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u100	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u101	We'll hear that from the Prime Minister in a moment. I also take the word "confidence" in my mouth now. Questions were rightly asked at the General Political Reviews about the realism of a forecast of 26,000 for this year, because it turned out to be more than double. While the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Secretary of State were here for two days, there was already an official note with a forecast of four times that number. Then I think it should have come to the Chamber at that time or as soon as possible afterwards. Neither of them happened. I am sorry that Mr Zijlstra, as a fellow MEP, is so easy to get away from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u102	No, I'm not walking away from that easy, but I'm walking away from the almost continuous movement, as if there's some kind of conscious keeping away from numbers. The cabinet has a policy. It is always the case that there are all kinds of scenarios, with and without a large influx. It includes what can happen. That's another thing than converting those scenarios into policy. I think the choice that the cabinet did not go for 93 600 is justified. This will undoubtedly have come to his office at some point, but that is a figure that we cannot accept, nor can this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u103	We cannot accept that, but it is not a question of accepting those numbers. The point is that we should have known that. I must support Mr Pechtold in this. It's not just 2016. In a sentence below, it also says that this forecast can be extended to the years 2016 to 2020. We're talking about $93,000 in five years. And here we have the most important debate of the year: the General Reviews. Those considerations were only about the number of asylum seekers. Mr Zijlstra remembers that. That's what it was almost all about. How can it be that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands simply does not share this important fact with the Chamber? Mr Zijlstra must have an opinion on that, mustn't he? We have to be able to trust that it is. If it couldn't have been on that same day, couldn't it have been shared at least a week or two weeks after that? But it didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u104	I've got two things to separate from you. Firstly, the statement that the Prime Minister does not share this information assumes that he does. We're about to hear that. I also say to Mr Wilders: if he had that information at the time, it would indeed have been nice to hear it. I don't have the impression that this is true, but I'd love to hear it in a moment. Secondly, I believe that a government has a responsibility to make policies when it gets forecasts. That is the essential difference of opinion between Mr Wilders and Mr Pechtold and myself. You can forward all the projections to the Chamber, but the Chamber doesn't rule. She's checking. The government has to make policies on the basis of projections. The government has adjusted the numbers upwards at some point, including financially, in view of the developments that were taking place. Fortunately, the government also intervened and ensured that these forecasts did not become reality. That's where there's the difference. That's why all these things don't have to go to a room. The government makes policy on the basis of forecasts and that policy goes to the Chamber. We are not ministers. That's them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u105	I can't help but conclude that we've just been paged. We've just been paged. It says 93.000 here. You are a Member of Parliament, Mr Zijlstra. You're not in "K." You're a member of the House of Representatives. You must control the people in trade-K, whatever political bond you have with them. The cabinet should have said: boys, we have a prognosis: 93,000. Then the story could have been done: we do not accept that and we are going to take measures A, B and C. It wasn't much, but still, the Cabinet could have told the Chamber. It didn't. So the Chamber assumed, what was it, 26,000, while it was 93,000. In five years, it was about half a million people. We should have known that. Step away from defending the cabinet, Mr Zijlstra. You're a public representative; you need to check. We need information. You must not stand behind or in front of Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u106	I think I'm pretty clear in my answer. The cabinet should first state whether it had that information at the time. That seems to me to be a world record passing information through that ministry. We've never seen that before. However, if that is the case, I would like to hear it. Furthermore, we really need a divorce: government rules, parliament controls. I take that controlling task very seriously. In addition, I expect a government to make policy on the basis of scenarios. That policy is then aimed at getting those numbers under control. I'll check that policy. If that policy is insufficient and the numbers are going to split up, then we have a point. But that's not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u107	A border has been reached for me, too. For me, the limit has been reached that I have to believe V and J in her good words every time. The challenge must now also be addressed. We are now asking the cabinet to make a factual account of this note. It has come to my attention that those figures were already available to general affairs officials on that day. That's very close to box K at the time. I would like to take this opportunity to say, like Mr Zijlstra, that it is an exact account of the facts of how, at what time and where this note was known in the official and political summits. Given the reputation of the Ministry of Security and Justice, there is every reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u108	This reminds me of someone standing in front of a beautiful pool of clean water, throwing a hand mud into the water and then saying that the water is cloudy. That's what you're doing now. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u109	That's disappointing. Mr Zijlstra first took part in my view that the Prime Minister should only answer to the question of what exactly happened. I arrived with a note showing that all pages were numbered on September 16th, except for the front page, which is numbered on September 22nd. It was shocking information. The Chamber asked widely, from Wilders to Pechtold, for that is the political spectrum so slowly why that information did not come to the Chamber. Mr Zijlstra will not get away with that pool and some mud. No, this pool is already muddy and it's time for clarity. I will give Mr Zijlstra one last chance. Let us, quite normally, exercise our right as MPs and ask what was known in September, where and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u110	Oh, let's get that sharp. You did ask that question. I have already said that I too would like to hear it from the Prime Minister. So we have no misunderstanding about that at all. But I'm telling you in all honesty that after that, you did make a very big song out of it. Let us first give the Prime Minister the opportunity to give his answer. And I repeat, let us not throw a handful of mud into the water and then say that the water is cloudy, as you did here. This would only become apparent once we have heard the Prime Minister's reply. Let's not just paint an image that I don't think there is. And if it is, we have another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u111	Mr. Chairman. The issue of refugees is one of the greatest challenges of our time, for our country, for us here, and certainly for the Prime Minister. But let's never forget that it's essentially about that one refugee who has everything to fear, who's facing you and asking for your help. That it's about the one Dutchman who holds his heart to everything that comes to us. That it's about that one Christian, that one Muslim, that one gay or woman who feels unsafe in an azc. Then the big question is actually very small: am I there for them? The political question, which is not least a question to the Prime Minister, is what kind of leadership is needed now. At the Prime Minister's level, this sometimes seems to be one of rosy expectations that cannot be fulfilled. If you suggest that these problems are under control between six and eight weeks and if you magically conjure up numbers that later turn out to be wrong, it feeds a distrust and pessimism that is disastrous for acceptance. The leadership and perspective that we do need is that of hopeful realism. This is a realistic way of dealing with the facts. People will know that there are no easy answers. There will then be a step-by-step work on a perspective that offers hope: hope for citizens who are concerned or not, hope for refugees here and refugees in the region of Syria. That perspective is as follows for the Christian Union. We won't have a Heumensoord anymore. Large-scale shelter is the recipe for incidents, for problems with hanging, bored people, for caring for the people around. We'll invest in small-scale care. Society is asking for that. We know that's gonna work. Cabinet, we know that's gonna work better, so get it done. And give room for work. Asylum seekers crave space to get to work, so give them that space. We'll give involved municipalities extra money for security. The police capacity is largely devoted to additional tasks around azc's. Reward municipalities that receive refugees with extra district agents. We will then focus on the protection of vulnerable minorities, including within an azc. Let's make sure that there's a confidant there, someone people can report to after incidents. Why does the D.A.'s office do so little to prosecute all these incidents? We can therefore work out the proposal to allow this type of incident, in which people really go overboard, to have an impact on their asylum status. This hopeful perspective also leads to a fair distribution across our country, with a clear task for regions and municipalities, and a fair distribution across Europe. If we come quickly to agreements with Greece on hotspots and screening, I ask the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister mentioned a period of six to eight weeks. Shouldn't those hotspots and screening work at that time? If not, we should proceed to a mini-Schengen. Wouldn't that be a good ultimatum for Greece? I would like to comment on this point. We will also have to invest in care in the region. In our counter-budget, we already paid extra money for this. What's the Cabinet gonna do in the spring note? In response to Mr Zijlstra, I said that we should not forget Lebanon and Jordan in this light. What do we do for these countries, so I ask the cabinet. Do we offer aid to refugees from Aleppo who are now on the border with Turkey and who need that help? We have seen that we want to invest in border surveillance, to work on the agreements with Turkey, but once again the link has been made with EU membership. Once again, it has been said that there has been talk in a very specific sense of possible membership. Can we let go of that link and can we talk about refugees, apart from that EU membership that I hope will never happen? When it comes to refugees and the arrival of refugees, it is a great task, for us, for the Cabinet and for the Prime Minister. And it's really important now. This is not the time of politics with a small p where we catch each other here, but this is the time of leadership, of a realistic but hopeful perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u112	Mr. Chairman. More bombs, more war, more refugees, so cynical and simple it can be. Where there are war and terror, where there are oppression and hopeless poverty, people flee. There are 60 million refugees worldwide, more than half of whom are children. The UN Refugee Organisation, the UNHCR, is in serious deficit. Sometimes there's just no money to give everyone enough food and drink, let alone people have a decent place to live or sleep. The international community is failing tremendously here. Yesterday, in this room, it was decided to also throw bombs on Syria. Once again, the Netherlands is meddling in a war without any prospect of a political solution. I find it embarrassing to see that parties who shout the loudest that the Netherlands should throw bombs are also the first to say that the door for refugees should be closed. While we are talking about throwing bombs in the IS area, tens of thousands of Syrians are on the border with Turkey, because they are fleeing the bombs of Assad and Putin. The Prime Minister spoke with his Turkish counterpart yesterday. What did you get out of that? What did the Prime Minister promise him? The Turkish Prime Minister speaks of major steps towards Turkish membership of the EU. What commitments has the Prime Minister made on this? Have steps been taken in the area of human rights? Is the protocol of the 1967 Convention on Refugees signed? The Prime Minister says the number of refugees is falling to several hundred a day. Figures from, among other things, the UN show exactly the opposite. It's not the first time the Prime Minister has handled the truth quite loosely. Why is he turning people's minds? Why doesn't he tell the truth? Why doesn't he give the right numbers? Does he want to make beautiful decorations, for example with the Turks, and show that he is willing to put the figures in his hand? What's going on? The Netherlands has nothing to do with a prime minister playing nice weather. What we need is a Prime Minister who, within his capacity, is making every effort to organise the shelter humanely and properly and who is working together internationally to achieve a ceasefire in Syria. What we need to do now is to help improve reception in the region. How is it that there is too little money in the region for the most basic things like food and water? I asked the Prime Minister that during the previous debate. What did he do in the meantime? What has the Netherlands done in the meantime? If we want to stop the flow of refugees to Europe, we must start there. Then we have to start tackling the causes. You hear a lot of people say: if your house isn't in order, it's hard to receive guests. A lot of people have that feeling. Many facilities have been demolished in our country. Many people have felt abandoned by politics for years. They see facilities disappear and waiting lists grow. There is no question of integration, but of growing division. Solidarity has been broken down by this cabinet rather than built up. It is perfectly right that people are angry about this. On the other hand, many people and organisations are doing their best to deal with victims of war as well as possible. They deserve appreciation. But in our country, too, there are a number of places where things are not as they should be. That is where the government overwhelms small communities, where it undermines their support, where problems are created by far too large-scale reception and good discussion is disrupted by aggression or discrimination. From now on, is the cabinet prepared to choose structuralally for small-scale care, with support in the neighbourhood and with regard to the consequences for local facilities? Do all the children in the centers receive education? What about the police capacity? Is it okay? Can the police handle her job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u113	I agree with Mr Roemer's approach to the solution. That's incredibly important. I haven't heard him talk about the way he looks at creating legal routes to come here, so we don't force refugees into crummy boats. Does he agree with me that we need to do more quickly with each other on the UNHCR resettlement programme? At the moment, we are taking up some 11,000 people in Europe, while the UNHCR is asking for the resettlement of 460,000 people. Does Mr Roemer agree with me that we need to work quickly to get as many of these people re-established here in Europe as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u114	It is essential that we tackle illegal flows, human trafficking and that sort of thing. My colleague Dennis de Jong was one of the first in the European Parliament to talk about European hotspots. In the meantime, I believe that was three years ago. In the meantime, far too little has happened. Yes, we must enter into this cooperation in Europe. Yes, we must keep the agreements we have made on redistribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u115	I am already very pleased with that, precisely with the statement that we need to work together in Europe. My question was specifically about the UNHCR. I was not so much concerned with Europe, but specifically with the United Nations refugee organisation, which has a redistribution programme to resettle people from Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey around the world. It's about 460,000 people. I ask Mr Roemer whether he is prepared to argue with me that we should give these people a place in the world as soon as possible, including in Europe. Right now, we're only relocating 11,000 people in Europe. Does he agree with me that that number should be increased further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u116	I am not going to take any chances with numbers, because numbers remain dangerous, I said. That these numbers can be raised, I agree with that, but I also continue to support the idea that people should initially be treated as well as possible in the region, as long as this can be done in a decent way. If the limits of humanity are clearly exceeded there, then we will indeed have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u117	That's why I'm bringing up the UNHCR. That's about the most vulnerable people. We are talking about young children, people with disabilities, women who are threatened with rape. They need to be relocated. Figures are often vague, but these figures are perfectly clear and clear. I can also give them to Mr Roemer if he does not take my word for it. I am pleased that Mr Roemer agrees with me that we should ensure that UNHCR resettlement numbers are raised. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr Roemer gave a clear answer to Mr Klaver. He wants to bring a lot more people here through resettlement. What does that mean, I ask Mr Roemer, for those who still come here in a boat, by any route? Does he think that that route will no longer be possible? So if you do not come through a resettlement programme, you will no longer have the right to an asylum application in Europe? Or may Mr Roemer allow both?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u119	Anyway, I'm not gonna cancel the Refugee Convention like the VVD wants. That's one. And two: I continue to argue that anything that comes up here today is always about consequences and cannot take away the cause. That is why I began to do so in my speech. It always starts with the removal of the causes of refugee flows, and that has not yet started, Mr Zijlstra. We had a debate yesterday in the Chamber about even more war, even more bombs, even more refugees in a region that has already been overwhelmed with misery for so many people. We have often made plenty of proposals here for much fairer trade around the world, to prevent that from being a cause, a reason for large refugee flows. At that point also the VVD does not give at home. Let us start with that. Then the question is, how do you organize that best? For example, you do this by putting hotspots in Europe. When we suggested that three or four years ago, everyone looked the other way. Don't blame me for not getting things in order while you're a co-causer of those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u120	The debate is taking a bit of a weird turn. You say that I am blaming you when I am merely asking a question, but that aside. It is well noted that the SP is for removing trade restrictions. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u121	We are in favour of fair trade, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u122	I think I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u123	Then you must tell the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u124	I'll take a look at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u126	I would like an answer to my question. Mr Roemer is right that there are many causes for refugee flows. We didn't take all of them tomorrow. Mr Roemer wants to bring more people to Europe through resettlement programmes. I understand that from the answer he gave to Mr Klaver. Fine, he can find that. But my question was: what does that mean for the people who come by illegal route, the people who simply cross a boat to Turkey or another country? According to Mr Roemer, can these people not apply for asylum, or does he think that both routes can be applied for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u127	I'd like to keep a lot of people from following a route like this. There goes a whole circus ahead of things that have to happen. The first is to remove the cause. We just talked about that. The second is safe and decent care in the region. There is no such thing at the moment. There aren't safe places everywhere. Let me give you the example of the Kurds in Turkey. That is why I have advocated hotspots at European borders to accommodate and assess people there. Then, in good European cooperation, we need to look at how we are going to redistribute these people. That's what we're here for. That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u128	Finally, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u129	That is a clear answer; hotspots in Europe. That means you accept both routes. This means that besides the current that is already there, you are introducing a large other current. I say to you that the defence of the welfare state in the Netherlands, everything we have built here, is in bad hands with the SP. That is an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u130	I have two objections to this comment. First of all, it was the VVD that broke down one supply after another in various cabinets, up to 50 billion in two Rutte Cabinets. That's one. Secondly, it has also been the VVD and it is still the VVD that is a strong supporter of continuing interventions in areas that can no longer have it. Apparently, the VVD has learned nothing from the interventions in Iraq, Afghanistan and now in Syria. It's just gonna go on. I wasn't allowed to say anything about fair trade in the world. At that point, the VVD has never been home. Mr Zijlstra must be careful with our accusations, while it is the VVD that helps with large refugee flows and the destruction of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u131	Mr Zijlstra must now respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u132	A brief reaction. Again, I note that both routes are opened by the SP, with far-reaching consequences for our welfare state. I say this to Mr Roemer. If the SP gets its way on that point, we will have to take further action to keep the Dutch welfare state affordable. The VVD never walks away from that. That should change Mr Roemer's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u133	I'm gonna end up with a conclusion, too. I think it is terrible that you first break down 50 billion of the provision in the Netherlands: pensions for the elderly, care for the elderly, care for the elderly, and then have the guts to blame the refugees for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u134	Mr. Chairman. The issue of refugees is undoubtedly the greatest challenge at the moment. There are no easy solutions. It starts with honesty about numbers. What are we talking about? It's about confidence-building measures and trustworthy leadership. But what do we see? On Sunday 10 January, Prime Minister Rutte said in Buitenhof: we must have tackled this before spring. Everything is aimed at bringing the current back to zero. We've been a month and it's just getting more stuck. It was just another empty promise from the Prime Minister. Only yesterday he claimed that only a few hundred refugees a day are coming to Greece. However, there are thousands of them, yesterday. The only promise that the Minister does honour is that of Turkey: view on visa freedom and EU membership. That doesn't inspire confidence. This prime minister doesn't show leadership. He's on Turkey's leash. Then the inflow estimate for 2016. An increase to 90,000 applications is conceivable at the moment. If the influx continues in this way, the Netherlands will have to be ready for never-seen numbers. The care of displaced persons on the run is a moral duty for which many people in the Netherlands are committed. With the current influx, and certainly with the estimated, the capacity of our society is overwhelmed. In the past, the CDA has made a number of proposals. An example is the "temporarily displaced" status, which allows people to return quickly and not to go through the endless treatment period. Another example is the adaptation of the UN Refugee Convention, so that the status no longer gives entitlement to a lifetime residence. The creation of safe ports in the region is a third example. As long as these aren't there, we'll have to row with the belts we have. The care of refugees is not independent of the responsibility for order and tranquility in our own society and the well-being of our people. I therefore have the following questions. How many shelters will be added this year if the 90,000 that we are talking about now becomes a reality? I assume that this is now known to the public. What are the costs involved? When will we be clear on how this reception will be dealt with? The waiting period has now risen to 15 months. What are the returns? We have received the figures of the incidents that have taken place; I appreciate that, because transparency is needed. How many people have actually been convicted and deported as a result? I'd like to hear an answer to this. The measures taken by the cabinet itself have so far been minimal: the reduction of the speed limit, a few additional engines at the border and the extension of the safe country list to Morocco, Ghana, India, Jamaica, Mongolia and Senegal. I think that most Dutch people were mainly surprised that those countries were not yet on it. Mr Samsom has made a proposal, and that is bold. While colleague Samsom presented that plan, the Prime Minister acted like he didn't know about it. What's true here? How does the Prime Minister see the possibilities for this plan? In the interview in Buitenhof, Prime Minister Rutte did not rule out the fact that the Netherlands will take alternative measures if the influx does not decrease. What did he mean by that? If that influx does not decrease within those six to eight weeks, what are alternative measures for the Netherlands? Three weeks have now passed without a solution! What alternatives does the Prime Minister have in mind? Does the Prime Minister think it would be conceivable to look at what Austria is doing now? Austria mentions the number of asylum seekers it wants to take up this year. Is the Prime Minister in contact and is he considering such a measure for the Netherlands? The Netherlands wants to know what the Prime Minister is doing. The Netherlands is not interested in the promises made by this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr. Chairman. Since 1 January, 75,000 refugees have crossed the sea and more than 400 people have drowned. I wish we could stop the war in Syria, that we could make peace tomorrow with magical powers. However, it is unrealistic to expect the violence to be resolved quickly. As long as the war continues in the region and as long as violence and despair increase, people will continue to flee. See the bombing on Aleppo. That's why I'm saying be realistic. No one can promise less refugees. Nevertheless, I see that the Prime Minister is doing so. He said the influx should be drastically reduced in six to eight weeks. The influx even needs to go to zero, that's how he finds it. Why does he promise something he can't do? Humanity is not free and responsibility is not luxury. It's our duty to take care of people in need. It is also our duty to do so so that our society can wear it. I am convinced that this can be done, as long as we organise it properly and as long as we prepare ourselves. This starts with the large-scale resettlement of refugees from Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. UHNCR has already requested 460,000 places and Europe has 11,000 places. That balance has to be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u136	Mr. Klaver is very clear. He says he wants to resettle 460,000 people in Europe. That's one point. What, then, should happen to those who choose to go on a boat to Europe? Is that a return ferry or is that also a route that can be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u137	That is a clear question that requires a clear answer from me. Moreover, I think that it is at least 460,000 people, to put a little bit on top of it in the direction of Mr Zijlstra. As far as I'm concerned, we're not sending people back by return ferry. I don't see myself standing on the beach yet or sending people there to say, like a child who has crossed,: go back. I think that if we give people who are now in a hopeless situation and who are taking the risk of walking with their children across the Balkans or going out to sea, people who are being driven away from there, the chance to go to Europe in a safe way will take away the need to finally get on such an unsafe boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u138	Now you're in such a camp and people are allowed to go to Europe, whether there's 200,000 or 460,000, via a legal resettlement route. All those people over there get tweets and text messages that say, "Hey, it's better here." 'Cause that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u139	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u140	What are the chances behind Mr. Klaver that they'll say, you know, I'm just gonna stay here? After all, if they cross, they still get asylum. How big does he think the chances are they're gonna stay if they still get to apply for asylum? Then they're just gonna make that crossing, aren't they? It's a utopia he sketches, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u141	I disagree. Let's say you're making a probability calculation. You know that Europe absorbs refugees every year and that you have the chance to come to Europe safely. The point is that that chance is big enough. That's why those numbers have to be so large. That is why I say at least 460,000, and I think that number will increase. If you succeed, I think people are gonna make a different assessment. Am I sure? No, I don't. However, I am sure that if you send them back by return ferry, people will look for other places. The core of the whole problem is that we are under the assumption that you can keep people away. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u142	Those people come from camps where it is safe in itself, so that is not the issue. I'm sorry, but when I hear this, there's a comparison in me. As a VVD, we are also in favour of resettlement when the asylum route is closed. We also see that you have a responsibility to relieve countries. Mr Klaver talks about 460,000 and perhaps even more through resettlement and says that people who simply cross can stay. It reminds me of that girl in Haren who announced a party on Facebook and said "you're all coming." And they all came. That was Project X. Mr Klaver sketches Project Y, but even more irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u143	Recently, many refugees have come to Europe, even without having a party. I find it cynical to think that people come here because we invite them, because it is so attractive here or because they want to go to Europe so badly. Their situation is hopeless. Mr Zijlstra is right about safety and the camps where people reside. Then they won't have to run from the bombs that fall there. People are also fleeing the hopeless situation, because children have not been educated there for years, because you have no food at your disposal, because you cannot work there and because women have to fear rape. People get driven away. I do not think that any measure to stop that flow will work in the end, not even the return of these people by ferry. It is not for nothing that Italy already takes into account that they simply choose a different route if we succeed on the Greek coast near Turkey. That is why I say that these people keep coming and that we should not force them into the hands of smugglers. That is the difference between Mr Zijlstra and me. I'll be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u144	For the first time, Mr Klaver acknowledges that these people do not come here because they are unsafe. Mr Klaver's criterion applies to a large part of the population of Africa. It also applies to a large part of the population of the Middle East. If that's the criterion, we've only just begun a terrible displacement of people. With these words, Mr Klaver takes responsibility for this in the wrong way. He must also make it clear to those people that this hopeful future is not here, that they should not try and that they should stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u145	What we have to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u146	A short response!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u147	I find it very cynical that the whole world community is talking about the need for people in the region to be taken care of. We all agree on that here. But in 2015, only 40% of the budget requested by the United Nations was available to enable that reception. The Netherlands did well. Let me be honest with you about that. The Netherlands paid for what it had to pay. But in the end, the international community is failing to better regulate the camps and the shelters. Like Mr Segers, I think that this year too, we should draw the wallet to better organise reception in the Netherlands and there in the region. If that doesn't work, people will keep coming. We have arrived at the Netherlands. I have already shown in the General Political Reviews that we are far too low and that in the past we have closed azc's from a political wish. I have had a debate on this with the Prime Minister. The picture is that the cabinet does not want to make adequate estimates, as if the cabinet did not want organisations and municipalities to be able to prepare themselves on time. Why not? Doesn't the cabinet want to tell you that the number of asylum seekers is increasing? Is that the difference between the expert estimates of officials and the political estimates of the cabinet, the difference between 93 000 and 58 000 refugees? Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that the number of refugees is now falling sharply. Not thousands, but hundreds a day. It would be Frontex's figures, according to a spokesperson on questions from the Justice Department. Frontex says that the Prime Minister is premature and that Frontex does not deal with daily numbers. The Prime Minister's got numbers on him. Who have we seen this from before? Yesterday, the Secretary of State announced that the maximum decision-making period for asylum applications would go from 16 to 15 months. Why does the Cabinet choose this? What is the background and meaning of that? I am also asking for new estimates from the cabinet. How much budget is needed if we're going to catch 93,000 people? How much should we invest in the IND to cope with these additional numbers of asylum applications? How much budget is needed for small-scale care, so that the lower limit for azc's is not around 300, but 150 or perhaps even less? We see the division in the Netherlands increasing. There are tensions and incidents, sometimes serious. I have three questions about that. First of all... According to the Prime Minister, do politicians play a role here in increasing social tensions? Second. Should politicians play a role in reducing these social tensions? Third. What role does the Prime Minister see for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u148	Mr. Chairman. The search for the best possible way to deal with the refugee issue is complex. A solution will certainly not be found if we stick to the extremes of barbed wire versus unlimited access. The solution is not going to be found if each of us continues to wallow in this Chamber in his own stall. PvdA and VVD were already willing to leave the shooter pits, as forced by this coalition. These two parties came to the outline of an approach six months ago. There are two key elements in this. The first is a generous legal asylum route from the region to Europe. The second key element is dismantling the human trafficking route and preventing people from drowning. Then on some parts that was still a dot on the horizon. In the meantime, it is a bitter necessity to realize it quickly. In order to achieve this quickly, more urgency must be felt at all levels, i.e. here, in Europe, in Turkey, in Greece and in all intermediate countries. Countries will have to be prepared to allow a large number of people entitled to international protection to come directly from Turkey to Europe in a safe and controlled manner. At the same time, migrants who do reach Greece via illegal and dangerous means will have to be reduced on the basis of that agreement between Greece and Turkey after the application has been assessed and declared inadmissible in Greece. Because only then, that's the only way you're gonna stop people smuggling. Only then will you stop the drownings. Anyone who wants to feel that must drive from Izmir 70 kilometers south to the beach of Çeşme. In the evening you can almost touch the lights of the island of Chios, so close it is promised Europe. People get into a very small boat and forget that the 6 kilometers that separates Chios from the Turkish beach are dominated by high waves and treacherous currents. If we want to stop that, there's still a lot to be done. Over the past few months, that has been slow, far too slow off the ground. There is now, carefully, only reason for more optimism. That 3 billion has finally come loose; now the money has to be spent properly. Legislation and conditions for Syrian refugees in Turkey are steadily improving. One and a half hotspots in Greece are now functioning. But more is needed, because reception in Greece needs to be improved. The legal route to Europe must now take shape, with as many European countries as possible participating in it. Next week's European Summit will be more than crucial for this. I look forward to the Prime Minister's assessment and analysis of this. Even if all this succeeds, the refugee issue will in the coming period require a lot from the Netherlands. A manageable flow also requires reception, needs work, needs integration. None of that is easy. Just look at the events surrounding the arrival of asylum seekers' centres in recent times. But let's not forget that between all the ugly screaming and sometimes even fighting, a very valuable piece of the Netherlands became visible. More volunteers than ever have applied to mean something to refugees. Initiatives are taking off all over the country. Council members, aldermen and mayors of all the parties here in the Chamber stood up for our values and sometimes managed to manage discussions. I'm proud of that. Nevertheless, we will be standing here often, because this issue will remain with us for years and people will continue to come. After all, as long as there is security, peace and prosperity here, and elsewhere there is war, oppression and hunger, people will continue to seek their fate here. That is the reality. It is up to us to give those who flee war and persecution a safe and new perspective and to give society here the assurance that we can keep that mission manageable and manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u149	My question is about controllability. The call from local administrators is: make it possible for us to shape it with small-scale reception rather than with large-scale reception. 3,000 people are housed in tents near Nijmegen in Heumensoord. Please let that end. Let's bet on small-scale care. When it comes to manageability, can't and shouldn't we really make that change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yes, we have been advocating this for some time, but from here on out calling for small-scale care to become the norm is one. I believe that this has already been done and that the COA has been given a clear mandate from here and from the government to look more closely at the possibilities for this. At the same time, I note that all sorts of strange practical circumstances, or sometimes very understandable practical circumstances, always bring that great reception back to life. That job is being done by the Secretary of State of V and J right now. We discussed this extensively with him last week, at least my spokesperson did. We see some progress, but it remains persistent. We do agree: small-scale care is better than large-scale care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u151	We can say that again and then go on again, but then we'll be back here in a couple of months and say exactly the same thing again, while municipalities say: we want to take responsibility, but we can't handle those large numbers. They say: we want to take responsibility with a number of municipalities, but it does not succeed; communication with the COA is extremely complicated and the COA is always committed to large-scale reception. With a view to being manageable and acceptable, it is important that we really move around the corner and that we really take a different turn, apart from the large-scale reception that puts such pressure on all these local communities and which leads to such exciting participation evenings. We really have to make a choice. We cannot wait and we cannot continue to congratulate each other on the fact that we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u152	No, but we're not. You and I are the controlling power and the executive power has a very complicated task here. I can give you an example. Suppose a municipality with a holiday camp with 1,000 homes or 1,000 places are for people, says: I actually want to keep it small; 200 is good enough for me. Then it is said to such a municipality: that is good, but then you have to rent all 1,000 places, because otherwise that camp will no longer be available for tourism. The municipality then says to us, to the parliament: help us, because we want this small-scale shelter. That story behind it, however, made it clear that it was not that simple. I have great admiration for what the Secretary of State has done on this dossier over the past few months. I think we all share that admiration. At this point, too, I see him fighting, just to use that PvdA term, to get this done. He gets all the support he needs from us for that, and then it's complicated from time to time. Every example that the MPs propose and which they think could have been "there," we bring to the Secretary of State and then we settle it, because the more small-scale reception, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u153	We have seen how exciting participation can be when it comes to large-scale reception. I went to Kollumerpump myself, in Northeast Friesland. There's small-scale shelter there. The volunteers walked in and out of there. It was a completely different situation due to a very good embedding at local level. Then we can as controlling power, because we are indeed, keep watching and saying: boy, those are wonderful examples, oh oh, how terrible, that Heumensoord. However, it also requires a ruling and a choice from us. In the second term, that might be the choice that the Labour Party itself might be faced with if, for example, we put such a statement to the Chamber. Let us therefore make a clear choice. Does the PvdA want to make that choice here and now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u154	Yes, I do, but I am threatening to fall into the call that Mr Segers just made, namely: let us not congratulate each other on that statement. We did; that's nice, but that doesn't mean we're here yet. It's really on a practical level. I also know many examples of small-scale care that succeeds, but I also know all those examples where an initiative started with small-scale care, but where it ended up in a place for 400 people, because sometimes you just want to have the right medical facilities on hand, because it's quite something to organize such a thing. However, Mr Segers knows better than I do the practical objections that stand between us and the ideals. But we are working on it, and if Mr Segers wants a ruling on it, he can have it, but I say that we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u155	That's right; we're far from there. I think everyone here agrees that we are not there yet and that we do not want children and adults drowning in the Mediterranean. That brings me to the next point. Mr Samsom launched a plan at the end of last month. I congratulate you on that, because if a Member takes an initiative, we should only encourage it. What does Mr Samsom think about the fact that Refugee Work then indicates that it is an unrealistic and unacceptable plan, that professors indicate that it is contrary to international law and that even Juncker indicates that it is illegal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u156	First of all, Juncker didn't say that. However, he indicated that in his press room something had been said about push-backs by the European Commission spokesperson, but that was not about our plan. That wasn't relevant. It has some connection with Amnesty International's reaction, but at least it did not respond to what I suggested. You can say that a proposal goes against international law. There are also many proposals that do so, but not our proposal. Our proposal does not go against international law. Our proposal complies with international and European law, provided that a number of conditions are met. These are precisely the points of action that I would like this government, like all governments in Europe, to work hard on: a good reception in Greece, registration, taking up an application for asylum, its assessment and in Turkey a situation that is'safe country' in accordance with the definition. If those conditions are met, it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u157	What I understand from the Samsom plan is that a limit is set: 150 000 to 250 000 people on the legal route to the European Union. The remaining people are being put on a ferry and sent back to Turkey, which is already suffering from more than 2 million refugees. Does this mean that Mr Samsom wants to set a quota for humanity? How does he react when we're on that 250,000 and someone washes up on the Greek coast with a baby in his arms? Does Mr Samsom say: no, we have agreed within Europe that there should only be 250 000, so go back? What's his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u158	That's a caricature of my plan. First of all, I shall deal with the quota. When you do resettlement, it's always a number. You can't resettle an unlimited number of people, even if it's just because you don't own an unlimited number of planes. So then it's a number. But that is not the quota that Mr Kuzu is referring to. Mr Kuzu says: then there is a limit to the number of asylum applications that you can make in Europe. No, absolutely not. When someone arrives at Schiphol and says: I am from Eritrea, I am threatened there and I am appealing to my right to international protection, that is just going to happen, no matter how many there are. But it is, between Greece and Turkey, about the deadliest and most criminal smuggling route ever after World War II. Children are drowning: 3,700 in total. I've been standing on that beach and I've spoken to those refugees. I can tell the Chamber that the all-encompassing ambition to reach Europe will not stop fences, will not stop coastguards and will not stop police cars. The only way to ensure that no more children drown is to make that journey unnecessary. That sounds hard, but in the end it's the only way that works. When people arrive at Lesbos, they can make an application for asylum. If they have made an application for asylum in Turkey, which is a safe third country in the situation I wish to work on, it is the same as when you arrive here from Norway, where you have made an application for asylum but have decided to move on to the Netherlands. We will send you by ferry then you can also go back to Norway in the case of Norway. The Netherlands, Europe and all other countries have been doing this for years. In this case, it is the only way to ensure that no more drowning of children on the way. It is a humane and just way of dealing with this issue. I'm talking 250,000 a year. It is then about a very large resettlement and it is also far above the figures mentioned in the last debate. But this is necessary in order to divide the refugee issue fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u159	I'm on that coast every year during the summer vacation. I have also seen what is happening there last summer; that is terrible. But it can't be that the Labour Party says that we have to include a number of people in Europe even if it's annual numbers, but that we're sending the rest back while we're throwing bombs on Syria and we don't have a political and diplomatic solution to what's happening with Assad and Daesh right now? Doesn't Mr Samsom set a limit to humanity and numbers, something that even the VVD doesn't do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u160	No, because I'm talking about this particular route. This has also been the breakthrough in the refugee issue. The fact that 53 islands are less than 10 kilometres from the Turkish coast has caused one and a half million people to wander around Europe in search of safety and shelter. This cannot be allowed by a continent like Europe, and we must make it manageable. Our prosperous society has that duty. Then there's no limit at all. When someone reports to Schiphol Airport who claims to be on the run because of the safety of body and members or for persecution because of religion or otherwise, they will, of course, receive the asylum treatment that everyone gets, no matter how many there are. But we are talking about a mass grave that is currently emerging in the Mediterranean. I want to stop that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u161	The IND recently announced that the decision-makers are going up due to the pressure, from six weeks to fifteen weeks, so more than a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u162	Months, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u163	Excuse me, months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u164	If only the deadline were fifteen weeks!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u165	That term goes up to 15 months. My party has insisted, often supported by the PvdA, that this does not mean that in that no-man's-land, until the decision-making time, in which these people cannot do anything, we should stop making sure that they can get language lessons, that they can prepare for a future anywhere. Could I have Mr Samsom's confirmation, just to be sure, that, where the other deadlines are being postponed, we will continue to take up these matters from day one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u166	Oh, yeah. It only gets more pragmatous as that term gets longer. I realize that the extension has a practical reason, but I am just as sorry about it. I want people to be clear quickly, even if they are not allowed to stay here. Unfortunately, the latter is more frequent, as we currently have no control over the flow of refugees and many people come here who do not deserve international protection. My answer was that we want to start integration and language as soon as possible. Working is always more complicated, because if you're not even allowed to be here or you don't know if you're allowed to be here, it's whether or not you're allowed to work. I'm sure there's a lot of intermediates to come up with. The mandate for the Secretary of State is becoming more pragmatous and therefore greater as the 15 month deadline increases again. I also assume that this time limit will be issued as a profit warning in order not to cause disappointment. I hope, however, that we will continue to strive for shorter mines, especially for those who are allowed to remain clear and those who are clearly not allowed to stay. Those seem to me to be two groups that you need to clarify quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u167	This means that we also need realistic figures. The fact that the IND can't handle it now probably has everything to do with being robbed by the numbers. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, together with Mr Samsom, that perhaps avoids a motion on how he intends to extend the decision-making period to the shared desire of D66 and PvdA to dress that period as useful as possible for everyone: not only for the refugee, but also for society. This must then be done in the form of language courses and so on. The question is therefore whether the Secretary of State sees opportunities to intensify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u168	That is a question through Mr Samsom to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u169	Yes. Of course, I still have to see the wording of the motion, but if Mr Pechtold uses the phrase 'as useful as possible', I think that is a good aim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u170	In order to avoid a motion, I thought: with a little support from the PvdA in the back, I'm sure I'll get an even more ambitious answer than if I only asked myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u171	You don't need me for that at all, but I will give you that support if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u172	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u173	I hear Mr Samsom arguing that, on the one hand, there must be generous protection in Europe itself for people on the run and, on the other hand, there must also be clear limits and enforcement. How does he view the return policy in this respect? Are we really getting on with this and are we getting on with getting people who are not allowed to stay here actually back to the countries of origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u174	No, I can't... well, when you look at it closely, it seems to be getting a little bit better, but it's not nearly good enough. That's true. That has everything to do with the fact that once you are here and stay here for a long time, the return is even more difficult. I therefore call for the procedure at the border of Europe, in this case Greece, to be followed carefully and quickly. At the moment, the asylum flow is tens of percent of the population. The figures are changing a little bit from people who do not apply for international protection at all, but who simply use the highway to get into Europe. I don't blame them, but they have to go back to Morocco, Algeria or the other countries they come from. Pakistan and Bangladesh are also being mentioned a lot at the moment. That's where a lot of people come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u175	Fine, but what are the possibilities of shaping that already, before that vision has to become reality? Does Mr Samsom also see that there are, for example, far more far-reaching actions in Sweden than in many other countries? These actions also go far beyond what we see in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u176	Yes, but in Sweden they also have to deal with much larger numbers. If we had been dealing with such numbers, we would probably have had to take similar measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u177	I have another question about Mr Samsom's proposals in the so-called 'Samsom Plan'. I was a little cynical about that the first day, because I found the reaction of the cabinet so surprising. However, we need to look at all the proposals on the content and see if anything is possible. In the interview, it seemed like it was tuned with the Prime Minister. It seemed as if the Prime Minister was working on it and so the plan would become something concrete in Europe too. Soon, however, we heard nothing of the Samsom plan. What is Mr Samsom's perception of this? Has he discussed with the Prime Minister what he is doing in Europe? So can we expect something concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u178	I think the Prime Minister will have to tell him what he's doing with this plan. I think that's the best part of the job. I understand yesterday that anything that threatens to fail will immediately be called "Samsom Plan' by the Prime Minister. So maybe he estimated the chances of success a few weeks ago a little less. But maybe that's changed now. We'll find out soon enough. I understand the plan will be called a different name, but I'd be happy to accept that. But all madness on a stick: this plan was devised by the European Stability Initiative. It's not mine, and it wasn't my idea. This plan has in any case been presented in parts by a party colleague of Mr Buma, namely Angela Merkel. Maybe it wasn't like this. I also understand that that's why it gets a name soon. But it can't have a name; it's just a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u179	I'll just get the interview. Maybe that got me on the wrong foot. In that interview, Mr Samsom's answer to the question of what Rutte is doing these weeks to lift the plan, that is to say, this plan. It says that Rutte, in his role as Prime Minister and President of the EU, is bringing together officials from the Member States for the legal and practical elaboration of the agreements, that Turkey is also part of them and that Rutte will present the plan in Brussels if he considers it appropriate. It's hard to be more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u180	Yeah, that's good. Those are the parts that are currently being worked on. What Mr Rutte wants to say about that, he should say himself in a moment. I'd better speak for myself; I think that's wiser. However, I am in contact with my fellow party members in Germany, Austria and Sweden, for example. Together with them I look at what elements of this plan could work and what should be done for that purpose. What should happen in Greece? What should happen in Turkey? However, I am only a representative of the people, nothing else. The executive is there in the ministerial field. Hopefully, he'll explain what the cabinet is doing. However, I am confident that we are indeed working on parts of this plan. If all parts succeed, the plan can also be implemented as a whole. Mr Buma himself said, perhaps a little disguised, that he would like that too. If it works, it's a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u181	That's right. That is why I would like to hear the Prime Minister about the moment when he will present the plan. However, I have one more question about the interview. Mr Samsom also said that Germany was convinced that there should be a leading group. In this way, the EU would make more progress. That is important, because a leading group can really help against the misery that may still be expected. What does Mr Samsom base on that Germany wants this to happen? And here too, I am asking how this will be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u182	I'm basing it on a statement Angela Merkel made a little after the interview. It was; I have to admit that. Yesterday, however, she spoke about the coalition of the willing, which must be prepared to receive people from Turkey, in order to create a legal migration route towards Europe. I have translated the term "coalition of the willing" into "a leading group." This leading group will consist of a number of countries. I hope that number will be large and not limited to two or three. At the moment, however, I have no reason to believe that the group will soon consist of more than ten countries. I hope the number ends somewhere between three and ten. The more countries are involved in this, the better it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u183	Let's talk about the breakaway. A coalition of the willing is about the question of who wants to take people in. I assume that this leading group will do its own border checks in your image, otherwise it will not make much sense. Then we can all make that coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u184	That could be part of another scenario. That is not necessary in this proposal. In this proposal there is only one very important border control and it is on Lesbos, Chios, Kos and Samos, the Greek islands. That is where the registration must take place and the application for asylum must be examined. That is also where the possible return must be shaped. If that works, all other border controls will be useful, but not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u185	I have another question for Mr Samsom. He was quite clear about the agreements with Turkey and almost the numbers for redistribution, but I will not pin him on that. I wonder how he looks at redistribution in countries such as Jordan and Lebanon. Does he agree that agreements should be made on this? Should substantial numbers be re-established in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u186	I'd really like to, but that's from a later order. Then we'll get to a scenario that you rightly outlined. I'm not naive. The moment you close the deadliest smuggling route there is, the smugglers or others will try to get new business. Trade in desire, trade in despair, that's what they do. Then they'll start looking for other routes. There are routes through Lebanon to Cyprus. There are routes through Libya to Italy. There are routes via Egypt to Crete or Cyprus. These routes can be dismantled in a similar way. That requires a lot more work and a lot more appointments. You can imagine what it means to make Libya a safe third country. That sounds very makable and thus the impossibility of that scenario is also outlined. If it comes to this, then of course it goes the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u187	Actually, it would be nice if we could be able to do that before it comes to that. I am very concerned about the pressure in a country such as Lebanon, because it has not become safer, but more unstable. One million people need to be taken into account for a population of four million, so it becomes more unstable. We can say that the need is high here and that we have many refugees to receive, but there are many more there. If we are not going to help Lebanon and if that little dominoes fall over in that region, then what is coming here will become very unmanageable. Should we not say, before these routes change, that we are also going to work on resettlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u188	Yeah, that's true. I would like to point out a bitter consequence of the fact that it is so easy in Turkey. The flight Beirut-Izmir, €70, is frequently done. At the moment, the number of refugees in Lebanon is falling because they are going to Turkey. The route to Europe has been found through Turkey. That is the wretched reality at the moment. I understand that people do so, but we are responsible for a manageable flow of refugees and we are mainly responsible for ensuring that no people drown in the Mediterranean. At the moment, Turkey is my biggest concern and has all the attention. What follows, we'll do it afterwards. This issue remains with us for years, as I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u189	Mr. Chairman. Last year almost 60,000 asylum seekers came to our country. This year, the number may even rise to 90 000, a completely unsustainable situation. I would like to point out the billion in reception costs, the pressure on social security, the cost of care, the 1,000 incidents of violence surrounding asylum seekers' centres and the enormous problems of integration that are going to get worse. The current situation is far beyond the absorption capacity of our country. From the start of the asylum crisis, VNL has been asking the government to set a maximum number of asylum seekers, as Austria, for example. When does the cabinet come up with an answer? According to this cabinet, how many asylum seekers can the Netherlands handle? In addition, our group presented an initiative paper to discourage asylum policy. This can be done, for example, by replacing the cash living money with a voucher system, as is happening in the United States, and by completely removing the preference system for housing. The numbers need to be drastically reduced. This must not be achieved by placing our fate in the hands of blackmailing Turkey, but by merely providing shelter in the region and a structural reintroduction of border controls. But the cabinet does not want and therefore puts the Netherlands at risk. I therefore ask the cabinet whether it is at least prepared to outsource the asylum procedure, following the Australian model. Make agreements with stable Maghreb countries such as Morocco so that we can set up asylum seekers' centres instead of here and we can settle the procedure instead of here. The British advocated this as early as 2003. At that time they talked about transit processing centres. It's a wonderful idea. In this way, we combat illegality in the Netherlands, we save huge costs, we remove social tensions in the Netherlands and we connect with the cultural background of asylum seekers. That's something that can make the Netherlands of the Left happy. I would like to hear a response to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u190	Mr. Chairman. The refugee drama is mainly a tragedy for the refugee himself. Let us never forget that. For the refugees, it's about life and death. Today we have heard him again a few times. The term "happiness seekers" is bullshit to us. 97% of asylum applications from people from Syria have been granted. That figure comes from the asylum note of the Ministry of Security and Justice of September 2015. Almost all refugees probably would have preferred to stay in a safe Syria. Even the PvdA'er Timmermans speaks of 60% lucky seekers who would all come here via or from Morocco. After Spekman and Samsom it no longer surprises the Moroccan Dutch when a PvdA criminalizes them. Then there is our colleague, Mr Wilders. He talks about happiness seekers, testosterone bombs, about locking up men and more of that kind of bullshit. We stick to the facts. We will not be ruled by fear. 40% of the people who came to the Netherlands from Syria in 2014 and 2015 are minors, according to CBS. On 1 January 2016, 1,800 Syrian children under the age of 4 lived in the Netherlands. In Wilders' fake world, these aren't 1,800 children. They're lucky seekers. What a humanity. In Wilders' bogus world, these are not 1,800 children, but potential testosterone bombs. What kind of world do you live in when you talk about children and try to organize political gain over children's backs? The people who come here are fleeing from Daesh and from the bombs of Assad, from Russia and the Western coalition and soon, unfortunately, unfortunately, also from the bombs of the Netherlands. That decision was taken by the House of Representatives yesterday. This also shows the government's double morale: encouraging rebels to fight Assad and throw bombs on Daesh, but trying to limit the influx of people fleeing these battles as much as possible. We of Thought will continue to fight this injustice, this double measure, this hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u191	Madam President. Being driven away from home and fireplace: you can see that happening again at the exodus from Aleppo. You see a procession of refugees against the backdrop of war violence. These people deserve a safe place, first and foremost in the region, but as long as reception in the region is not in order, many will seek refuge in Europe. So it remains the task to offer them innability here. The fine and big words about reception in the region will have to be fulfilled. What exactly did that end up in the past? At the same time, there is a political mandate to curb the uncontrolled influx towards Europe and towards the Netherlands. The capacity of our society to provide care is limited, especially when we are dealing with large numbers of newcomers with a great distance to our culture. These integration problems must be taken seriously. In addition, it is an extremely difficult task for the public authorities to carefully determine who is and who is not allowed to stay here. There is no doubt that in the wake of war refugees large flows of migrants from the Balkans and North Africa come along. How can it be established as soon as possible that they are not allowed to stay here? How's that going? How is the return policy implemented? How many people are waiting for another general? I'm gonna stop because I think it's rude to talk through the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u192	What is the outcome of the containment of the asylum flow towards Europe? The SGP does not need new European systems, but fast, adequate and targeted solutions. Europe must not take over the management of the external border, but rather close the breach in the external border. Greece's position as a gateway to the Schengen area is unsustainable. A recent evaluation shows that Greece is seriously failing. If Greece is to be able to stay on board, necessary improvements must be made in the short term. Is that also the cabinet's commitment? Reception within the Netherlands requires customization and flexibility. People keep asking for small scale every time. We hear this from administrators and citizens; a small azc or no azc, but more reception of status holders, which can also relieve the pressure on asylum seekers' centres. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State: is there room for customization? What is the outcome of the implementation of the splendid motions that we have previously adopted in the Chamber, which, for example, state that we need to make small scale more possible? Concerns in the Netherlands about the influx of asylum seekers also have to do with a feeling of unmanageability. With the feeling that there is a lot of talk about it in Europe, but that there is no real progress. How does the Prime Minister respond to what lives strongly among the population? Finally. We have now had a number of debates on asylum and reception. The pattern that comes back to it is that there are many emotions in the first term and many motions are tabled and adopted in the second term. But we need action, to show what the progress is. I am curious about the state of play and I would like to hear it from the rulers in ordinary people's language.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u193	Mr. Chairman. This morning, we read in the newspaper that the Prime Minister was pleased to announce that the influx of refugees is falling substantially. UNHCR and Frontex do not recognise this. According to them, there have been more days with fewer boat refugees in recent months, but there is still a long way to go. The PM says he based his data on Frontex. I don't get it right now. Apparently, Frontex has a different interpretation? Can the Prime Minister explain this? In his letter, the Secretary of State informs the Chamber about the preparations for increasing the capacity of the Border Security Team on the island of Chios. It is good that the Netherlands is going to make a greater contribution to monitoring the European, and thus our, external borders, for the time being. But what's in it for us? A few days ago, Nieuwsuur reported that these teams are checking for fake passports and that they have the perfect equipment for that, but also that the Greeks are not registering anyone with a fake pass. So they let everyone through. In the reportage a percentage of false adjustments of 30 was mentioned. That's frightening. Not everyone with a false pass will by definition have evil intentions, but if so little is done with this kind of data, why is the capacity of that Border Security Team so expanded? What's the point of that? Will the expansion of this team include an extension of the tasks? I'd like a response. It has just been announced that NATO ships in the east of the Aegean Sea, where many Syrians cross the border every day, are going to patrol to stop the flow of refugees. But what do they do? The boats are not stopped or towed back. According to NATO Chief Stoltenberg, information on human smugglers is being collected. How that happens on NATO ships is a mystery to me. Then you really have to invade Turkey or somewhere else and look at the smugglers, and then you don't have to sail around at sea. This information will then be passed on to Turkish and Greek authorities, but if they work with it as rapidly as with the information provided by the Border Security Team, will we really get results? Then what good is it gonna do us? How are the smugglers dealt with? It is precisely now that the Netherlands is President that this is the opportunity to do something important. That is why 50PLUS advocates a strict but fair, humane but realistic refugee policy. We call for strong and effective surveillance of the European external borders to curb refugee flows, for a decisive approach to smugglers with severe penalties, for a fair distribution of the number of refugees across all European countries, for reception as much as possible in the region and, finally, we do not want economic refugees. Finally. An adopted 50PLUS motion of October 2015 calls on the government to address all non-EU countries on all occasions their share in addressing this issue. How is this motion implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u194	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u195	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the many comments that have been made and for the exchange of views. I will try to do the best I can. Perhaps I can do that best by starting the farthest from home where the flow of refugees is concerned, namely the situation at Aleppo at the moment. I am talking about the terrible humanitarian situation that is now emerging on the Syrian side of the Syria-Turkey border. The situation is so serious that the Netherlands has offered to provide assistance on the Turkish side of the border in the form of water and sanitation, but also in the form of Search and Rescue capacity. We shall do so under the coordination of Germany. Germany has offered first aid and we will follow in that direction. We have offered to help the Turks to alleviate the need on the Turkish side of the conflict. It is my analysis that for quite some time we have accepted the situation of some millions of refugees in Turkey as a fact of life, without wondering what it means for Europe and what help we could provide. That didn't happen on purpose. That analysis is not new and many others have made it. I have said this a number of times in recent days, as in the press conference following Ahmet Davutoğlu's visit yesterday and in the press conference Friday after the Council of Ministers. I remember a visit to the Patriot Mission in southern Turkey in 2013. I had Mr Erdogan on the phone who was Prime Minister at the time. He outlined the situation with the refugees in the area where I was at the time. Then I thought: there are a lot of them and that is serious. But I have not really realised what it means for society and what impact that has had, not only on Turkey, but also on the region, and what huge task Turkey has had to deal with this for a very long time. The same applies to Jordan and Lebanon. I think the situation in Aleppo underlines that once again. Last Wednesday, at the Turkish Prime Minister's visit, I said that we will support the German-Turkish initiative to address it apparently in violation of UN Resolution 2254 at the UN. That has everything to do with Russia's action in that part of the conflict. I have also pledged to support the initiatives being taken, both to strengthen Frontex and to remove some administrative problems surrounding Frontex, and to see how we can use NATO to deal with the terrible situation in the Aegean Sea as well as possible. A few hundred people have died there this year, including children. This has become topical today in the NATO ministerial meeting. I see Mr Van Haersma Buma at the interrupting microphone. I am not ready, Mr President, to speak on all kinds of other aspects. I would like to answer some questions, but I can imagine that they are about a part that I still have to deal with. But then we're gonna find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u196	Absolutely. I can see very well ahead, so I'm definitely going to ask a question about the things you might be dealing with. My question concerns the talks with Turkey. If you'd like to finish that part first, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u197	I certainly have more to say about that. This is an important aspect, but certainly not everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u198	I would like to make a further comment on a point made by the Prime Minister between his nose and his lips. He said that he underestimated what it meant to the region and to the people there, when he saw that it was millions of refugees in appalling circumstances. He literally said: we saw it more as a fact of life. I can hardly imagine how it could have happened that the Prime Minister saw this as a fact of life, because for three years the Chamber has insisted that the situation in the region is bad. Last October we had a debate here together and then it seemed as if the Prime Minister was very much in agreement with me that the situation in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon was far from satisfactory. The Prime Minister then made it look like we were working hard on it and doing everything we could. I have tabled another motion to encourage the Prime Minister to do so. Then he said: yes, I do! But now I hear: well, it was a fact of life and I've only seen it a little bit like that. I think that is a very serious observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u199	I am sorry that Mr Roemer is taking my words out of context again. I'm trying to look back and reflect on the past three years. If he takes my words out of their context, I must correct them and say: I did not say that. I'm sorry, because that way you can never even talk to each other about what you've learned from the past few years. I think Mr Roemer is really misinterpreting my words. I am now forced to do so, of course, to repeat what I just said. I didn't talk at all about the quality of the shelter. That's another chapter. I have really only talked about the Burdens, the pressure, the enormous burden it is on the Turkish authorities and society if at the moment there are 2.6 million people in those days when more than 2 million people need to be taken care of, of which about 0.5 million in camps and others in communities in the southern part of Turkey. That's what I've been talking about. Of course, there is also a lot to be said about the quality of care. The Netherlands has always said that it wants to help and it has done so in the past year. Certainly as far as Lebanon is concerned, but also as far as Jordan is concerned, and to some extent also as far as Turkey is concerned. This element is paramount, along with the fact that people in the region receive the most logical approach, of course, because if the situation in the country of origin stabilizes, people can also return quickly. That's the whole cabinet thing. Nevertheless, we must be careful to point the finger at Turkey, which sometimes happens here and there. I am not talking about human rights and freedom of the press and all other aspects, but specifically about the pressure on Turkish society resulting from dealing with this flow of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u200	I didn't misunderstand the Prime Minister. This was also part of what has been held in the Chamber for three years. The pressure on society, not only in Turkey, but also in Jordan and Lebanon, is huge. That is why colleagues have said so many times that they are less and less able to cope with this pressure. This has always been somewhat neglected, not only here, but also in Europe. As a result, the problem has been so enormous in recent years. That is why I am not surprised to hear the Prime Minister say that, but I think it is serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u201	Again, this is magnifying what I just said. In this way it becomes very unattractive to reflect occasionally. Of course we have had those debates. We have all realised the pressure that this situation places on Turkish society. What I warn you about is pointing the finger at Turkey too easily and saying: now they have to do this at Aleppo and there they have to do it. Let us be aware for a moment that there is probably no country in the world that has to do with such large absolute numbers of refugees. 2.6 million, that is even more so than in Lebanon, although it is, of course, a relatively heavier burden for Lebanon, I realize that. In absolute numbers, there is probably no country in the world that is currently dealing with such a large stream of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u202	I think that is an honest reflection of the Prime Minister. We did not really move until the refugees came our way. Then we saw what was happening in Turkey. Then the question is indeed what we learn from it for the near future. If we know that the pressure in Turkey will not be lightened but will increase, and that the pressure in Lebanon and Jordan will continue to remain high, the question is quite simply what this means, for example, for the resources that we allocate in the spring note for reception in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u203	It was also mentioned in the cabinet letter of early September: if the aim of your policy is to have shelter in the region, to offer people the best they can, then you should also be willing to pay for it. The Netherlands has therefore immediately agreed to the contribution of nearly 100 million to the 3 billion set aside for the Turkish Refugee Facility, the TRF. That money does not go to the Turkish Government, but to projects in the camps, in the region, primarily aimed at education. I told my Turkish colleague yesterday and he also said it: it is crucial that we get away from that abstract concept of 3 billion. We must get to the first stones laid for schools as quickly as possible, for first training facilities to ensure that the hundreds of thousands of children involved are also educated. I think that shows how important it is that you're willing to do that. Our development aid policy has always been focused on this. We are among the top six donors to countries in the region in absolute amounts. Relatively we are even higher on the ranking. It is a question of money, but of course it is also a question of manpower, power of thought and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u204	It is fair to say that until recently the budget for development cooperation, from which that aid was paid, went down. It is also true that extra money has been promised. I think we're gonna need more money. The question is how we can help people get real perspective there, for example because the children can go to school. Refugees have no status there and cannot work. The situation in Lebanon is the same. Mr Samsom said that people from Lebanon go to Turkey via Cyprus or another island because they have no prospects in Lebanon. We must appeal to these countries to be able to work there and to have their children educated there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u205	Certainly, and that is why it is good that one of the elements of the EU Action Plan for Turkey, namely the possibility of work permits for refugees, has now been realised. That's important. People couldn't work there, but they can now. There is also a visa requirement for Syrians. The Turks have taken important steps on all these issues since the end of November and this is one of them. The 3 billion does not go to the government as some say, but really goes to projects, for example to education. That's crucial. They're working hard on it. It will be discussed in Brussels next week at a high level of administration. The Turks have made a whole list to be able to spend the first hundreds of millions on this type of shelter and activities. I got that list handed over yesterday, and it looks promising. We must, of course, look very closely at the list and make assessments of it, but at last we are moving from making the sum of 3 billion available to the question of how that amount can be spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u206	That's Turkey. However, it is also Lebanon and Jordan, where the relative pressure is much higher. If the dikes break there, the consequences are even greater. Can we understand the promises, whatever the Netherlands can do in those countries? They are countries where the need is high and where the pressure is relatively higher. We may not be able to gain this insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u207	Last Thursday I attended the Syria conference in London with Lilianne Ploumen, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I had talks there with the Prime Minister of Lebanon and the King of Jordan. The Netherlands is working very hard on the compacts that are now being made for Jordan and Lebanon. The Netherlands has made a lot of money available for the whole region. From my point of view, I say that this amounts to 125 million out of a total of 10 billion promised at the Syria conference. I was pleased that the conference not only discussed the situation in Syria vis-à-vis Turkey, but also that there was a great deal of attention to the situation in Jordan and, above all, in Lebanon. Lebanon is a country with a small population and I estimate that refugees now account for 30% to 40% of the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u209	Having said that, I come to the things we stand for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u210	I still have to get used to the PM not being in tuxedo tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u211	Neither do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u212	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u213	I was kind to you yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u214	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u215	You're mentioned!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u216	Certainly, and my colleague, Mr Omtzig, is still upset. The Prime Minister speaks warm words about Turkey. In itself, I can understand that, but it's a country with a sad face. The way in which Turkey is now acting against the Kurds goes beyond all limits. And don't forget that the Dutch still go up and down via Turkey to Syria to fight there. The Prime Minister says he respects Turkey. Yes, but we also demand something from Turkey, and that is understanding for us. I noticed that the Prime Minister of Turkey said yesterday that Turkey's accession to the European Union came a lot closer after the discussion with our Prime Minister. I'd like a reaction to that. How could this have been said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u217	That wasn't specifically focused on yesterday's conversation. The talks on Turkey's accession will take place within the framework that applies to them. We know that a number of chapters have been blocked, for example because of the situation in Cyprus. We did not make any statement yesterday. The agreements set out in the EU-Turkey Action Plan are in place. It says that we will give new energy to the accession process without affecting all the accession criteria. The same applies to visa liberalisation, for which there is a road map and a clear roadmap. Turkey will have to take all these steps. We are going to try to speed this up, but without abandoning the agreed criteria. Both for accession and for visa liberalisation, we are sticking to all the criteria. Perhaps yesterday the Turkish Prime Minister referred to part of the lunch talk that was about Cyprus. We talked about the situation in Cyprus for quite a long time because there are in itself hopeful developments in Cyprus in the reconciliation process, bringing the various parts of Cyprus back together again. Progress has been made in recent months. Further steps are expected to be visible in the first half of the year. A solution to the whole Cyprus issue could, of course, help a number of chapters that have been blocked because of this issue. The Turkish Prime Minister may have meant that in that sense, but I have to look into his head. Apart from the discussion on Cyprus, we have not had any specific cuts in accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u218	The concern of the CDA Group, which was also our concern about the deal with Turkey, is that, while there is a human rights situation that is getting worse rather than better, under pressure from the refugee problem, a country can suddenly open chapters. In today's debate on the General Affairs Council, Minister Koenders said that we are opening these chapters precisely because we hope that Turkey will improve the human rights situation. But that was never the deal. First meet the requirements and then open the chapters, that was the deal. Can the Prime Minister assure us that the way in which accession negotiations and the opening of chapters are started will not be affected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u219	The start of accession negotiations was in 2004. The accession process I understand Mr Buma is that all the criteria must be met, that we take the normal steps and that chapters can only be opened after an assessment of, for example, the Commission. That normal process is being followed. I have had a lot of discussion with the CDA about this in this Chamber and I do not think that the CDA and I have very different views. Agreements have been made with Turkey that we are prepared to consider whether accession negotiations can ever lead to a positive conclusion. We do not do this in a way where we speed things up at the expense of all the criteria. It can only be done if all the criteria are met. At the end of the process, however, an explicit decision on accession must also be taken by the European Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u220	Finally. It is now about the criteria for reopening chapters. As a deal, this came out April 1st. The latest human rights report on Turkey is bad and the situation has deteriorated rather than improved. So objectively, you can't start. I am going to remind the Prime Minister that we will not open chapters with a country until there is a reason for doing so in the area of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u221	That's not the deal. The normal accession process works in such a way that the whole issue of human rights is discussed separately. This is completely separate from the EU-Turkey action programme, which merely states that new energy is being given to the process. It does not say that criteria are being weakened or that things are being accelerated at the expense of the criteria. This was also my response yesterday to the NOS' question at the press conference: did you discuss human rights? We do it all the time. I've talked about it in a lot of conversations with the Turks. But not yesterday, when we only talked about the refugee issue. There is a normal dialogue with Turkey on human rights. It is independent of the accession process, although it does touch it, for example through Chapters 23 and 24. It is not the case that human rights should be at Swiss level before we can continue the accession process. These are separate trajectories that come together at certain times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u222	Human rights have not been discussed in the hours of conversation. The Prime Minister says here once again that it was only about refugees. How then is it that the Turkish Prime Minister at the press conference, which is being held jointly, says that great steps have been taken towards accession? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u223	I just answered that question. May I refer to the report? I have literally given Mr Buma the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u224	No. I'm not happy with it. I am not satisfied with the Prime Minister saying that it was only about refugees. I am struck by the fact that, as Europe, we now have the Turkish knife on our throats when it comes to accession requirements and visas. I do not think that is the situation in which you link the heavenly problems of refugees with Turkey's possible relationship with Europe. I find it at least confusing that the Turkish Prime Minister says that great steps have been taken in the discussion with the Dutch Prime Minister towards accession. So let me ask you again for an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u225	I have just explained it all to Mr Buma. I would like to repeat it briefly. Then I must begin to interpret what the Turkish Prime Minister may have meant. We discussed the situation in Cyprus at lunchtime in a broader context. We have noted with each other that positive steps are being taken there. The Turkish Prime Minister himself is very much involved in that process. There have been historical moments, where for the first time high-ranking Turks have also visited the Greek Cypriot part. We know all these images and stories. This leads to further steps in that process of bringing the different parts of Cyprus back together. In itself, of course, it is possible that the situation in Cyprus will lead to a lasting solution. It is not present immediately, then you really talk about a trial of months and perhaps longer. However, hopeful steps have been taken. If there is a lasting solution, it will have an impact on the accession process. Maybe that's what he meant. However, I am not obliged to interpret exactly what my guests say at a press conference. I know what I said myself, and I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u226	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u227	Last night, the Prime Minister told jokes, made important statements about freedom of the press. There are currently more journalists in Turkey than ever. Turkey's going the wrong way. There is someone here who is a representative of a pro-European party who is in favour of further integration, but not, as I say clearly, with this Turkey. I think that the Prime Minister should listen better at a press conference in which he himself attends, and should indicate here whether it should have been corrected if necessary yesterday. We must not give rise to the suggestion that the Turks should not do so over the back of the Dutch Presidency that important steps have been taken in relation to the refugee problem. I do not think it is surprising that, when asked about it in the Dutch Parliament, it should be asked about it. The Prime Minister cannot say at the first best question that he has already answered it. So I would like to assure you that if, in the course of this process, the Turks again hunt agreements or whatever, we will see that separately and that we will assess that in accordance with the criteria that were once agreed in Copenhagen. I would like to assure you that nothing is being done, speeded up or whatever, because the situation in Turkey is going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u228	I referred to the previous answer, but then, at Mr Pechtold's insistence, I literally repeated the same answer. That did not seem appropriate to me in the interests of the progress of the debate, but I did so on request. What the Turkish Prime Minister may have meant is an interpretation by Mr Pechtold. He may also have referred to the agreements in the EU-Turkey Action Programme on re-energising the accession process. Maybe he meant it in that context. We don't know. The only link I can make to the talks yesterday is with the discussion on Cyprus. There are, in itself, positive developments. It is precisely to a pro-European party such as D66 and certainly to the leader of that party that I would like to say: let us also be a reliable contractor. This means, firstly, that the debate on human rights with Turkey will be held on a separate table and will not be brought together until later with the accession process, except where it affects the relevant chapters, and secondly, that we will stick to all the criteria and will not negotiate anywhere, but that we, as a reliable contractor, are prepared to continue talking to the Turks to see if we can reach agreement. That will really be in the future, in the distant future. I will probably be the only one here who is still in active political service to see how these talks will ever be concluded!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u229	I will not repeat it for the third time, because I very much agree with it, especially in view of the war situation in the east and the human rights situation and the journalists. However, I have another question. The Prime Minister said that the Netherlands is going to provide assistance in the reception of refugees on the Turkish side of the Syrian-Turkish border. That triggered me, because what does that mean for the tens of thousands of people on the other side of the border, on Syrian territory, who come from Aleppo, who still have no access and live in wretched conditions? Has it also been agreed that the border will open for those people and that they will be taken care of, or are we talking about two different things here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u230	I think you should be very precise about that. My observation is that Turkey is trying to deal wisely with the terrible humanitarian situation on the Syrian side of the border with Turkey through the developments at Aleppo. As a result, there will undoubtedly be influx, but we need to see to what extent and exactly which groups this concerns. That's primarily up to the Turks. We have offered to be of service. We are aware that there is an additional problem there, on top of the many problems that Turkey already has with dealing with the refugees. Germany had offered to be helpful on Monday through the relevant Hilfsorganisation and we will offer help in the field of sanitation, water and capacity for Search and Rescue under their coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u231	I think it is quite right that the Netherlands, together with Germany, should offer this help. I appreciate that and embrace that and I totally agree with that. However, it is not an answer to my question. The Prime Minister's all about it. He says you have to look at it and leave it to the Turkish authorities, but he actually says that these tens of thousands of people are actually being abandoned on the Syrian side of the border in appalling circumstances. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Has the Prime Minister not agreed that aid is being offered, but in such a way that people are actually receiving humanitarian aid both on Syrian and Turkish territory, so that their conditions improve significantly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u232	I would like to avoid being too presumptuous about what Turkey should do. Turkey is currently catching 2.6 million Syrian refugees. I do not believe that we have much to reproach Turkey for receiving refugees. There is another special situation here. Turkey is trying to deal with it in a sensible way, and it seems to me that it is rather complicated to point out in detail from your chair in the House of Representatives or in the Tower what Turkey is going to do there. They have a track record that they are willing to help humanitarianally on a scale that is unprecedented, at this time and in recent history. At the same time, we must be prepared to help the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u233	I very much agree with the latter, but it is really incomprehensible. You do agree to throw bombs heavily in the area of Syria. Now these bombs are still coming from Russia, but the Netherlands will actively participate in it. You really can't do it to say from your lazy chair that you can't do anything for the people who are actually in trouble and who are running from all the violence, wherever it comes from. If we were to offer help, which I am very much in favour of, we could have agreed on how these people could be helped on the Turkish-Syrian border. If the Prime Minister did not manage to do that, I am very sorry, but then we will really abandon tens of thousands of people without providing them with proper reception in the region. Then we're gonna drop an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u234	Mr Roemer speaks very agitatedly, but I say something else. My analysis is that Turkey too is trying to deal with the situation as well as possible. They have also shown in the past that they are always willing to make huge humanitarian sacrifices. I would like to draw attention to the large number of refugees currently in Turkey. That is why I think it goes a long way to point the finger at you. I had the Turkish Prime Minister explain how they deal with this. I think they have chosen a sensible line here. I said that we are prepared to help on this issue at Aleppo on the Turkish side. The link made by Mr Roemer with the Dutch deployment of our air weapon in the fight against ISIS, also on the Syrian side, has nothing to do with this. That's in a whole different area of Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u235	Mr President, I really object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u236	You may make your point, Mr Roemer. Then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u237	It's not about pointing the finger. I am concerned that there are tens of thousands of people here, and perhaps some hundred thousand soon, in a humanitarian disaster situation. That's different than pointing the finger and wondering if a country is doing well enough. I am very much in favour of the Netherlands taking responsibility and offering humanitarian aid, and I am also very pleased that this is happening. However, there is a humanitarian disaster here. Of the people who are there, 80% are women or children. Then we cannot look the other way and we cannot say: we leave it to Turkey to decide whether or not to close the border there and whether or not to provide humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u238	I really think we're talking past each other right now. I think I have just said that it is my assessment that Turkey is doing everything possible to manage the situation there. We're following that closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u239	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u240	Having said that, the question is, of course, topical at the moment, how we can achieve two things as best we can. Firstly, the business model of the boats and the smugglers of human beings must be broken, and thus also the terrible fact that people die on the Aegean Sea, for example. Secondly, we must ensure that refugees are better spread across Europe. Of course, the many initiatives are aimed at the very first. In addition, it is important to look very closely at what is possible in the situation in which people reach Greece at some point. You want to return them as much as possible to Turkey in a safe way. That's what I mean by bringing the influx to zero. I do not mean that the influx into the Netherlands should be brought to zero. No, the Netherlands too will continue to take in refugees this year and also in the coming years. However, if you can reduce that flow from Turkey towards Greece to zero, it is possible to activate another part of the cabinet deployment in early September, namely from Turkey, from the camps to the lifts of people to Europe. Of course, we have to think of fewer numbers than the number of people who are now coming to Europe irregularly. This would also ease the pressure on the situation in Turkey. They're working hard on that. Of course, we have also talked about this. Then you're talking about reading mission and resettlement. Those conversations are still going on. Against this background, I also said something at the press conference on recent figures. The numbers from Frontex I had there, well, I wasn't allowed to make them public. But that is not a disaster, because I also have the UNHCR figures and I can make them public. This indeed shows that it has been possible for a few days to reduce that flow. I know one swallow doesn't make a summer. The number that came in after that was higher again. It's definitely not enough yet. I also discussed this with my Turkish colleague. The Turks have, however, taken many initiatives since this issue was discussed in detail in London to actually seize the flow of people from Turkey to Greece and the boats on the beaches. We know that. But it's not enough. A few days the influx has been slightly lower. I said that in itself is a good thing, because you can see that it can. You really need those lower numbers for a longer time to actually have the confidence that such a resolution program can fly. Indeed, the very latest figures show that the numbers are higher again. So that's certainly not enough. There are official consultations on this matter today, and tomorrow as well. Next Thursday there will be another meeting between some European countries particularly affected by the flow of asylum seekers and Turkey. That meeting is next Thursday, ahead of the European Council. So we are working very hard, even in the coming days, to get all these aspects of bringing the problem under control, all these filters that you have to build in to get the flow of refugees under control. That is also in Turkey's interest. After all, we have the 3 billion, and we are prepared to help groups of refugees from Syria to Europe if that stream really runs down. I would like to say once again that, of course, these numbers are lower than they are now in the case of irregular immigration. However, this is also important for Turkey for another reason. I have also outlined this and the Prime Minister agreed with it. It is also important because the situation on the west coast of Turkey has a clear effect on groups other than Syrians. They are now also through Turkey on their way to that west coast. This is also a major nuisance in Turkey itself. So it is really a common interest, both humanitarian and practical, to get this issue under control. I will continue to work hard on this in the coming period and many others will do so to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u241	The Prime Minister cannot wash away the fact that he said to the Dutch as Prime Minister in January: before spring the influx, especially from Turkey to Greece, must return to zero. He's putting that in a completely different context now, but he said that. He gave it six to eight weeks later in the European Parliament. To prove that he was right, he said yesterday: it has already gone back to several hundred. Yeah, every month there are a few days with several hundred, but what he said just wasn't true. It didn't go back to several hundred. The influx is way too high. There's no change at all with January. The big question, which the Prime Minister has to answer now, is: what is he going to do, so don't promise but do it, to get it within that period, it's still three to five weeks to go to zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u242	I give two reactions to that. First of all, it is necessary to move towards zero because you can only reset according to the September cabinet bet and because you can only lift people from Turkey to Europe, if the numbers actually go to zero. It must not be about thousands a day but about much lower numbers a day. That's one. That is why this is extremely important. Then I come to the second point. Mr Buma is right when he says that one swallow does not make summer, but there is a difference. We can see that they are indeed doing so, encouraged by the various discussions that have taken place, to intervene on the beaches, for example, and to break the model of those boat smugglers. We've literally seen the footage. The Turks have shown us, at least at official level, these images. Is it working enough yet? If the numbers are a few days lower, you can say that one swallow doesn't make a summer yet. I complimented my Turkish colleague, because it shows that the Turks are indeed able to reduce those numbers. The weather factor can always play a role. Then you saw those numbers rise again. So it's not under control yet. I am not here to explain that things are under control, but it does show that Turkey, if it so wishes, is in a position to intervene. I also think it is important to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u243	Then it remains that yesterday the Prime Minister said to the Netherlands that it is going well, that the decline is coming to zero and that there are several hundred, while it is simply not right. The Prime Minister said yesterday it's falling back. He said, "Go to sleep quietly," while the influx was ten times higher on that day. How does he look at that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u244	The figures for the last few days show that there are several hundred of them. So it turns out it's possible. As I just said, one swallow doesn't make summer. I did not say the words Mr Buma used to say to the Netherlands. I only said that to the Turkish colleague. The good news is that if Turkey wants to intervene, it is possible to reduce those numbers. They are also busy, but it is not enough, because you can see at the same time that those numbers are rising again. So much remains to be done. There will still be a lot of water flowing through the Aegean before we can really control this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u245	Yet this is difficult, because it just doesn't add up. Each month there are days with fewer, with several hundreds; there were also in January. Then neither did the Prime Minister: well, these two days Turkey is doing something. We all know that Turkey is an incredibly smart country, which plays with those numbers. It knows: the more we forward, the more the Netherlands will flatter, this Prime Minister does to Turkey by giving us what we want. I do not know if the Prime Minister knows, but the President of Turkey has already said: if the UN does not intervene in Aleppo, then the borders will open again to Europe. Nothing's closed! So on a completely different chessboard Turkey is already busy again and in the meantime this Prime Minister is telling the Dutch people the wrong stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u246	I think that's really unfair criticism. We are standing here to take each other's measure; that is quite right. Here's what I've outlined. The activities of the Turks since the last weekend, which they have also shared with us, do have an effect. Of course, you always have to weigh that against other factors such as weather conditions and so on. That's obvious. I said that I think that is a good thing and that I congratulate him on it, precisely to encourage him to continue with it. He knows that our political position is not just that of us but that of the countries in this part of Europe who want to think about a system of settlement that is only possible if those numbers actually go back to zero. Otherwise, it is not possible to start a resolution scheme. They're very attached to that. We attach ourselves to this because it actually breaks through that business model. So anything we can do to encourage Turkey to continue to intervene on those beaches, especially if that has an effect for a few days, I find positive. I'll keep doing that. So you will hear me say in the future when those figures go down because of Turkish intervention that I congratulate the Turks and that we want to see much more of that, because it is very important that those numbers fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u247	We need a Prime Minister who, when he comes up with figures or promises, tries to bring people into this difficult area, which reassures them and, if he can't, creates support. This Prime Minister has said that we are moving towards zero within six to eight weeks. This Prime Minister says this week that there are fewer, while the numbers say the opposite. I am now told in the answer that, if the Turks do their best, they are doing well. So the Turks did it soon if things don't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u248	First I want to talk about the numbers. I said that if the spring peak threatens again, when the weather improves and the numbers increase, it is my political and social assessment that this part of Europe is unable to do it again. So we must do everything we can to ensure that those numbers fall. Those numbers need to get back important. That is my goal, at least for the Netherlands, but if possible also for this part of Europe. So it can be relative in Europe, but preferably in this part of Europe. Question two is what instrument you have for that. One of the most important tools would be to send back people who cross the border. In return, you will then be prepared to lift the real refugees from Turkey to Europe, but of course in lower numbers than are currently irregularly coming here. This way you destroy the entire business model of the boat smugglers and you can also spread the people fairly across Europe. In order to do so, and to be able to take a first step at all in such a resolution scheme, it is important that there is the confidence that the Turks actually reduce those numbers. I would just like to say this to Mr Pechtold, because this is very closely listening. I am therefore pleased with every swallow that shows that they are actually intervening. I use it to encourage them to continue to do so, also in their interests. After all, they too want to control the flow of refugees through Turkey; they too want it eventually to be possible to reset groups of refugees. If there are a few days on which these figures get better, partly because of Turkish intervention, I congratulate them on that. And I will continue to do so. At the same time, it is not enough, because the next day you see the figures go up again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u249	No one here has talked so far about the importance of what the Turks are doing. No one is currently discussing what measures are needed for this. We are talking about the words of the Dutch Prime Minister, for weeks now, in a kind of pre-campaign mode: to indicate that it can be less, that it should be less and that the Turks should do so. In all of February 2015, 2,800 refugees arrived. In the first ten days of this month, February, there were 15,000. How can this Prime Minister take the Dutch people into a realistic picture when he claims to go back to zero in six to eight weeks and when he says on the first day that the crossing was probably a bit difficult, he says: look, it is falling again? No, we need realism and leadership, where you take people and reassure them where you can, and continue to create support if the figures show that it is difficult. The Prime Minister doesn't do that. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u250	I listened carefully to the first term. Mr Samsom and Mr Klaver have come up with proposals. I hear Mr Pechtold again about leadership, about bringing people into a movement, etc. At your service, that's my job. My job is also to outline what I consider politically and socially necessary. What I consider politically and socially necessary is that every effort should be made to prevent a new flow of refugees into this part of Europe in the spring, which, in my opinion, we cannot carry on with social and political life. Then you need to see what instruments you have for that. I have already outlined this in my previous answer. A very important instrument is the agreement we made with Turkey. That is not because I blame Turkey for the situation in Syria, but because Turkey is an important country on the route from Syria to Europe. Turkey is also the country where you can provide shelter for people in the region. We are also prepared to contribute to this. At the same time, Turkey is a country where the flow of refugees is too high. We must therefore ensure that all the instruments are put in place and that we use all the filters for this: from the situation at Alepppo to the situation at the camps in Turkey, to tackling the flow of refugees from the beaches, the role of NATO and Frontex in relation to the situation on the strait, the situation on the Greek islands and looking at what you can do to bring people back. We're working on that. That's a complicated political process. Mr Pechtold recognizes these processes, I think, from national politics. So this is also a complicated political process. When I see that the Turks manage to and prove that it is possible to actually intervene in that stream, I will encourage them to continue doing so. In fact, it is an important prerequisite for eventually achieving the ambition to go back to zero as much as possible and then to be able to start resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u251	Three times by Mr Buma and twice by myself there are questions about the Dutch Prime Minister's statements on the realism of refugee figures, namely 'back to zero in six to eight weeks' and, this week, 'look, it's already starting to decline'. And what does the Prime Minister do? He's starting to talk about what the Turks are doing, which is about Chamberwide, except for one box, supported here. Everyone thinks about it and plans are supported by each other. That's not what we're talking about. What we're talking about is the Prime Minister's statements. People just think they'll get $1,000 when you promise. People might just think that a prime minister who says it's gonna be zero in six to eight weeks, based on very important reports, experiences, conversations, etc. I asked the Prime Minister to respond. Buma asked three times and didn't get an answer. I've tried it three times now. Let's try it with an answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u252	My ambition was to give a real answer, but if Mr Pechtold does not feel served, I will try again. First of all, I have outlined what I think can be done politically and socially in the coming period. There is therefore an urgent need to tackle this problem. That's one. Then you have to look at the instruments and your goals. My objective is not that the flow of refugees to the Netherlands is zero. In the future, again this year and in the coming years, the Netherlands will continue to absorb serious numbers of refugees. We are a decent country, but not the numbers we have seen today. My view is that we cannot continue to do so. Then there is the question of how we can achieve that. "Back to zero" is needed for an instrument to get this under control, namely readmission, and in return for getting refugees out of Turkey. Of course, this is about lower numbers, in line with the cabinet's commitment at the beginning of September. That's an instrument. In addition, I was still working on my speech, of course, we are looking at other filters: in Greece, in Macedonia, in the Western Balkans and so on. Of course, there are many more filters, but we are about to talk about them. An important filter to control this problem is Turkey. Within Turkey there are four or five filters. One of them is the filter we're talking about right now. If you're talking about bringing the numbers back to zero, or as much as possible back to zero, in exchange for resolution, that's to get that instrument started. My central message to the Turkish Prime Minister yesterday was also: you want that, we want that, but that can only happen if those numbers actually fall significantly. That is not a message to the Netherlands, but to the Turkish colleague. The message to the Netherlands is that I realise that we have the task as a political one, which I consider to be a joint task, a task which is not only mine or this coalition's, in order to control the constant flow of refugees and thus also to provide decent, good reception and no longer overloading all kinds of services. That's our goal. I also believe that this is a common political and social objective. That's what I want and what I said. As far as yesterday's numbers are concerned, that is not a promise, but a statement that the Turks are able to intervene effectively. I will continue to encourage that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u253	In my view, it is also a common goal of all of us here, at least that is what it should be. When the Prime Minister speaks, it says something, unless it's at a nice dinner. If the Prime Minister says at a press conference that we already see the numbers going down, he gives the impression that the policy is already having an effect. If he takes the words 'we have to go back to zero' in his mouth, citizens take it as: that politics is doing well; that Rutte has a good whip in Europe; within a few weeks we are at zero. But what if we don't? This has implications for the credibility of the Prime Minister himself, but then we will all be defeated. I'm still upset about that red button in the election debate when it came to "no money to the Greeks." The reason why is not so much that it is about the reliability of the Prime Minister, but that it affects us all. That's promising something you can't live up to, but it's happening here. That is why I ask the Prime Minister whether he would like to deal with figures more carefully from now on and whether he will not do another French Timmerman, as our group now calls it, by conjuring up figures that are simply not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u254	Suddenly Frans Timmermans is brought in. I didn't see that coming. Let me go back to the figures Mr Klaver mentioned. Our goal is not to go back to zero. In the end, we want to control the numbers of refugees coming to Europe. An instrument for achieving this is the willingness to bring refugees from Turkey to Europe, even if it is in much less numbers than it is now irregular. Mr Klaver said it in a different way and without limitation, but in terms of instruments it is similar. We gave this in the letter of September that terrible term "overpressure valve." I'm sorry about that term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u255	The term-samsom was for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u256	Well, Mr. Samsom is a beta. If you work in a coalition with betas, you get that kind of beta term. However, it is one of the instruments to achieve this goal. But if it doesn't succeed in mapping that zero, it didn't all of a sudden fail. That is not the purpose. You need it to be able to use one instrument, besides a lot of other instruments. The aim is to ensure that the flow of refugees from the region flows into Europe. The aim is also to at least improve the relative Dutch position within it. If it is necessary in the extreme case, then we will get the number of bits we can handle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u257	Mr Rutte is very competent in constantly explaining his plans and purpose. However, I was concerned with his communication to the electorate. It was about communicating with all of our constituents. He always makes it clear, even yesterday, that the numbers are going down. Where is the link between the Turkish actions and the point that these numbers go down for a few days? He's acting like the policy is already having a real effect. By saying that the number has to go down within a few weeks, he puts a huge pressure on the operation the Turks are working on right now. The chances of that operation being successful are only getting smaller. You're organizing your own defeat. This Prime Minister is organising that in a few weeks' time the support will be reduced. The message will then be: you see, the politicians promise everything again, but they achieve nothing. I'm sorry the Prime Minister does that. That is why I ask him once again: will he please be more careful in the numbers he is using over the next few weeks? He says quite laconically, with his hands in his pockets, that they were Frontex figures he shouldn't have used. Now, however, he has other figures, this time from the UNHCR, which he is throwing something at. But those numbers matter. He's throwing people on the wrong foot with that, and it's harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u258	Yesterday I called Mr Klaver a great political talent, and he proves that again. He's capable of making it a giant soup. He says I've said all kinds of things, but I didn't say those things at all. I'm just gonna sort things out for a little while. My consistent message is that the aim of the policy is that the influx to the Netherlands will go to a level that we can all eat together. That's what I think. That's not a promise. I think that is necessary and I am working very hard to achieve it. Last year's influx was too large; you can't have continued it. In order to prevent this, a large range of instruments is available. One of the instruments is this instrument, resolution, whereby you transfer people from Turkey to Europe. The numbers are, of course, much lower than the numbers we're used to. However, if I find that the Turkish actions, which are necessary to gain confidence, work and if you can turn on that instrument, then confidence is needed that there will not be an irregular flow of electricity. I would like to point out that Mr Klaver had an interrupting debate with Mr Zijlstra. Then you have two streams and you don't break through the business model of the boats and the smugglers. If you see the Turks taking those actions this weekend, however, you get confidence that it can. I don't know if there's a link to those lower numbers, or if that's the effect of the weather. But I will encourage this, and I will continue to do so towards Turkey. I say, guys, look, here's what we need! We need numbers of several hundred a day, and preferably even less, and not the thousands we saw. That gives us confidence that we are on the right track. And that's terribly important. But if this doesn't work, not everything has failed. We're also working on all kinds of other filters. For this filter, however, this would help enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u259	Finally, Mr Klaver, and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u260	I'm sticking with it: isn't this a weird way to motivate your Turkish colleague? The Prime Minister himself has just said that he does not know whether this weekend's Turkish actions have really affected the lower figures and that it may have been on the weather. Yet he pretends that the Turkish actions already have a lot of impact. The Prime Minister would be well advised to wait for just a moment with the statements he makes about the declining influx. That is much better for the trust and ultimately for the support here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u261	I challenge Mr Klaver to let the follow-up questions have a small link with my answer next time. You'll have an even richer debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u262	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u263	The Prime Minister is challenging me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u264	Yes, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u265	He always does that when he doesn't come out completely and has already repeated the same answer 25 times. The question was quite simple, but at the end he didn't go into it either. I asked to be careful with numbers. He links things to each other that can't be linked. At the beginning of his speech, at the lower figures for crossing people, he pretended to be under the influence of the Turkish efforts, and at the end of his speech he said that he could not say that with certainty. All I'm asking of him is for you to be careful, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u266	I fully agree with Mr Klaver. I would like to repeat very carefully the figures I have been referring to for some time now. The influx must be very strong. In order to reset you need an influx from Turkey to Greece that goes towards zero. If that doesn't work, it's not a disaster. Then there are other filters that we can work with, but for that filter that would help enormously. If the Turks take targeted action this weekend and communicate with us about it, and if you see in the next few days that the influx is 10% of the period before that, then I find that reason to say to the Turkish colleague: you see, it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u267	The downside of that compliment is that when it goes up, it is also Turkey's fault. Is that what the Prime Minister says to his Turkish colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u268	That there can therefore be even harder work to get the problems under control and that you cannot start with a resolution scheme as long as those numbers are as they are, namely not in the hundreds but in the thousands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u269	If you ask what the Prime Minister said on 19 January, on this side of the House, he will answer in full terms about how, policy and what is going to be done. It's about what. The suggestion that has been raised, the promise that voters have heard, is that we are moving towards zero, within six to eight weeks. Surely that would be detrimental to the basis, if, after six to eight weeks, it became clear that nothing has changed at all and that the current will not be reduced, but will become more towards spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u270	Within six to eight weeks, counting from that moment, you'll be near the spring that's coming. Then you run the risk of having bigger numbers because of the better weather. I pointed that out. Then you need to control that power. Then you must have numbers that are manageable, also for this part of the world; at least for the Netherlands. Preferably, you do this regionally and with European solutions. One of these European solutions is indeed that you are prepared to tell Turkey that it is not alone and that we are prepared to invest. If that current is going down a lot, that zero has to be in the picture, otherwise you're gonna keep an irregular migration flow, with those dangerous crossings and people dying. We're gonna help with NATO so you can get that under control. We have agreed on the role of Frontex in this whole. We're going to simplify the bureaucracy in there very quickly. That's what the Germans agreed on Monday and I made yesterday. If that whole complex manages to get that zero in view, or to move towards that zero, you can also turn on the instrument of resettlement. That's my message. It's a good thing we're gonna have a couple more times together tonight. The aim of the policy is to control or significantly reduce that flow. One of the instruments is resolution. If you want to be able to turn on that instrument, you need that zero to come into view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u271	A previous election campaign has already talked about the fair story and I think we really need a fair story now. The suggestion that we can move fast to zero might not be such a fair story. That raises a great deal of scepticism when we see how long that coast is, how many islands are off the coast, how many boats are crossing now and how many people are still arriving every day. Then we'll have to think about plan B now. There's only five weeks left of those six to eight weeks to get that zero in sight. So what's plan B? There is a strong demand for the population, which is sometimes subject to heavy burdens. Then what's the honest story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u272	The story will be that moving towards zero is not the goal of the policy. That's what you need to be able to use an instrument, resetlement, to achieve another goal, to bring the power back importantly. That's one. I've told Mr. Klaver a few times. If you don't manage to visualize that zero, that's not an absolute disaster, provided all the other filters do the job. The aim of the policy is to control those numbers, that current, before that spring peak comes. That is the purpose and for that this is one instrument. I have just mentioned a number of others, including NATO's commitment. I'll be on Macedonia in a minute. So there are other instruments and this is just one of them, but it is a very effective one if you could use it. But it's not a disaster if it doesn't work. It's not the end in itself either. You only need that zero in the picture to be able to use that instrument, otherwise you keep two streams of refugees: regular and irregular. My message to the Netherlands is not: we are heading towards zero for the Netherlands. And not even: we are heading towards zero from Turkey to Greece. The message is: we are trying to achieve this, because it brings closer to the main objective, namely to control the flow of refugees, with a European approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u273	It's to be despondent. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to stop the Turkish route. What the Netherlands needs, what the Dutch citizen is screaming for, is that the influx stops. That's not gonna work with Turkey, no matter what he tries. While he visited the Turkish Prime Minister yesterday, who apparently spoke fine words, the Turkish President gave a speech on Turkish television today in which he said: 'the time has come for Turkey to open the gates to Europe again for migrants. In the past, we have stopped people at the gate of Europe. We're putting them in buses now. This happens once or twice and then the gates open to Europe." The President of Turkey simply says one day after Rutte received the Prime Minister: whether it is about the deal with Europe, about Aleppo, or about the UN, if we do not get what we want, we will send them all to Europe. That's not a partner to do business with, is it? Why do you still believe in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u274	I think we should try to get this problem under joint control. What Mr Wilders is doing is jumping directly to national solutions. In an interview in the Algemeen Dagblad he said, and I think he is right to quote him that technically it is not going to be possible to close the Dutch border. He admitted that in that interview. That is also very complex and it costs a lot of money. If you do not succeed in reaching a European solution, you must, of course, be prepared to find other solutions at regional level in that part of Europe. I told you to think about what if. Then they ask again: what are those what ifs? Then my answer is: I do not tell, because then everyone will talk about it. I want us now to focus all our energies on achieving a European solution. I think it's valuable to try. There is a common interest, it is not just an interest for us. It is also an interest for Turkey to control it, which is mutually recognised. I am not going to respond to every ruling that comes from Turkey. We all know that the President of Turkey always expresses himself in a rather firm way, but I am not going to comment on every statement from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u275	I understand the Prime Minister doesn't do that, because those statements won't come true to him. Our Prime Minister received the Turkish Prime Minister yesterday. He has spoken fine words, but the President has just embarrassed him; it is as simple as that. The day after the Prime Minister left here on the plane to Turkey, the President said: we are simply opening the gates. The Netherlands needs us to finally close our borders, to stop the influx of asylum. The Prime Minister stays but bets on a dead horse. To illustrate once more what kind of people we have to do, I read out a report on something that Erdogan said to Mr Tusk on 5 October last year. He also mentioned that in his TV speech today. He then told Mr. Tusk, so-called "retorical" according to the press agencies: what are you going to do with the refugees if you don't get a deal with us, are you going to kill them? Those were statements from the Turkish President. He's a mob boss. Mafia practices are these. A president who says: I open the gates; what are you gonna do, you gonna kill those refugees? You can't do business with someone like that, can you? I'm asking the government to stop doing that. The Turkish president is a mob boss. What the Prime Minister must do is to ensure that he takes responsibility in the Netherlands and closes the borders here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u276	The Netherlands is not an island, and Mr Wilders knows it. We are working in an international context and we are making a huge amount of money from it. We make a lot of money with our trade and our orientation abroad. It is precisely because of these great economic and social interests that I find it valuable to do my utmost to see whether it is possible to find a European solution to this problem. If that does not work, we will of course have to look at another solution, but I think it is valuable to make an extreme effort to achieve it. I've said this before. Sometimes things come to society that you don't want, that you didn't wish for in advance but they do happen. A society has to cope with that. We're doing that in a decent, but sober way right now. The procedures are necessarily lengthy, the reception is more sober and everything is less fat than it was, but we are trying to manage this asylum flow in a decent way. At the same time, we find that we cannot continue with these numbers in this way. So I think this is valuable and will continue to work in the coming weeks to try European first. If that doesn't work, you always have to look at alternatives, but I think this is valuable. As long as I see opportunities to do that, I'll fight with my colleagues for that. I think it would be unwise to strike the flag immediately and say: it does not work anyway, so close the borders. This would inevitably take economic risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u277	Can the Prime Minister also reflect on the words that Mr Wilders just used, that the Turkish President would be a mob boss?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u278	For years, I have been giving all Mr Wilders' comments to Mr Wilders. I'm not gonna keep commenting on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u279	I think that the Prime Minister has also noticed that he would achieve much more in his relations with the Netherlands, the commitment of the European Union and the challenge we face with the flow of refugees if he spoke out strongly against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u280	I do have the Turkish authorities so high that they also know about the various political parties here in the Netherlands in this dossier. I don't have to explain that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u281	I also saw Turkey's threat to open the gates in the international press. I understand that this is in relation to NATO's plans to patrol the area around Turkey. Is the Prime Minister aware of Turkey's reaction to these NATO plans? It is strange that it would be a reaction to that, because Turkey is also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u282	It's a common Greek/Turkish request. So I assume that's what's in Ankara. It is a joint Greek/Turkish/German request made today to NATO ministerial to help in the Aegean Sea. There are important preconditions for patrolling Turkish waters as well, and for bringing people back to Turkey when people are being taken out of the water. That's how the request is made. That is a joint Turkish/Greek/German request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u283	It is quite remarkable that this type of reaction will then occur. This raises the question to what extent it can't always be that you think you have agreements with Turkey, but that the Turks then think they have a key in their hands and yet come up with new demands again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u284	I do not regard this as a demand, but rather as an exclamation that has been made on the side of the presidency in Turkey. Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u285	I see you're being distracted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u286	That's right. I asked the messenger a few questions. The foraging here is so fantastic I look forward to another cappuccino. Since we're gonna be here for a while, I think that's wise. It was late yesterday, too. In any case, of course, there have been statements of the presidency. But again, I'm not gonna respond to all those statements. I understand Mr Van der Staaij's specific question. I did not make that in-depth analysis of President Erdogan's statements. I must believe Mr Van der Staaij and assume that this is a justified quote. The request to NATO to patrol the Aegean is a joint Turkish/Greek and German request, in which the German Defence Minister von der Leyen, our Defence Minister Jeanine Hennis and the Turkish colleague work closely together. I underline Turkish/Greek, and that is in itself historical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u287	I suggest that you answer those questions that have not yet been answered and that you conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u288	Certainly, and now the good news is that the many interruptions have already preceded the answer to almost all the questions. Then you also see the level of this debate. I shall go through the questions very quickly and think that we have actually dealt with everything, except for one point: the question of the numbers around Prince's Day. I would like to comment on that, unless there are other questions other than those.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u289	No, I would ask you to continue answering those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u290	I thought, from Mr Pechtold's reaction, that there were other questions as well. What's the situation? The General Political Reviews took place on 16 and 17 September 2015. At that time, a piece on the influx in 2015 was being worked on at Security and Justice. That was September 16th and 17th. On September 22nd the note was made about the influx in 2016 for the so-called Multi-Year Production Prognosis I didn't know at this time that it existed for the alien chain either. It said the number of 92,000. On November 18th this so-called Multi-Year Production Prognosis will be completed. In the meantime, the number has increased to 93,500 for 2016. I hear Mr Wilders saying "93,600." That's right, that's right. Always off the numbers! On 20 November, Secretary of State Dijkhoff sent a letter to the House of Representatives in which he informed the House of the decision on the number of seats. He explained that again in his letter of 21 January. Then of course come first the question: why didn't you share this Multi-Year Production Prognosis with the House of Representatives? I checked that immediately, of course. That never happened. That piece is never shared. It's an official piece that's used to build up those numbers. The second question is: why don't you take the number 93,600? Mr Dijkhoff explained this in the letter of 21 January. This has everything to do with the fact that this is the weighted scenario for unchanged policies. In the meantime, of course, there were all kinds of developments and also policies designed to reduce the numbers. I would like to say that the number of 58 000 is, of course, still very strong. Thirdly, it is already special that the number is adjusted by autumn note. That's what we did at the time. This is normally the case with spring notes, but the number from the budget and the millions note of 26 000 is thus increased to 58 000 in autumn notes. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u291	The General Political Reviews were about entirely about the refugee problem last September. Each group has paid great attention to this. We have asked about the fact that the cabinet took 26 000 asylum seekers into account. That number surprised everyone. Why? Because at that point, the numbers were already sky high. The expectation was that it could be twice as many for 2015. Mr Zijlstra said on TV: there will be as many as the entire city of Utrecht, namely 350,000. At that time, a calculation was made, and not just any; no, extended. I have that calculation here, with every population and percentage added, which adds up, not to a gross estimate, but to 93,600. That piece was dated September 16th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u292	The play is dated September 22nd. On page two, all of a sudden it's about September 16th. Of course, that is what we have been trying to find out. The question is whether you are really interested in the answer to that part, because it is a highly complicated answer, which has to do with a template that was used on September 22nd, with the date of September 16th on page 2. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u293	A phone call has been missed, there is a receipt missing, a floppy disk has not started and now we have the template...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u294	No, I object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u295	The template... I'm going to include it in my dictionary. Thanks to the Nieuwsuur news section I have here a note that says on all pages "September 16th," except on page, where "September 22nd." Anyway, it doesn't matter. In September, officials are working very precisely on numbers for the next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u296	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u297	May I ask my question? I get interrupted every time. What are we hearing? "Trust that it's 26,000 and we're gonna go down on it." At that time, it was well known in sub-groups and steering committees that other figures should be taken into account. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why numbers have been mentioned, again it is the same point, which is then taken down by the media and the hard-working opposition and turned out to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u298	I object to this. I just figured it out and I have no reason to doubt the explanation I'm getting. On 16 and 17 September a piece on the figures for 2015. It was not until September 22nd that the piece was finished in 2016. In fact, the people involved have been asked: when did you actually start working on that piece? So that's a very low level of public service. Since 17 September, work has started on this. This was completed on 22 September. Then comes the conclusion of that moment, that number of 92,000. Now Mr Pechtold says: but I have here a piece where on pages 2, 3 and 4 the date is 16 September. I'm pointing out what's on page one. It says September 22nd. That's the date of creation of that piece. So there's just a wrong date on pages 2, 3 and 4. You can be funny about that and refer to the receipt, but that's the way it is. That's just the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u299	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u300	That's what I've been told, and I have no reason to believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u301	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u302	Then we know that on Princess Day the discussion was already about a higher number. Because what was in the 2015 budget? 40,000. By then, we had predicted some 40,000 for 2015. Later, the estimate for 2015 was raised to 58.000. We saw at that moment that those numbers would go up. You remember that in the week of Princess Day we had a very high asylum influx, about 700 a day. I said in the discussion at the General Political Reviews that I could not rule out the fact that the numbers would really be higher and that we have our normal decision-making moments to do so. We have even, different from the normal decision-making process to do it in spring paper, adjusted the figures for 2016, partly based on that estimate. We then made our policy correction on the basis of all the actions that had been launched and the political objectives that had been expressed. That's how it happened. I didn't know those numbers. Even officials did not know these figures; they were still produced at that time. They finished on September 22nd. That's really how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u303	In the last hour, the Prime Minister will start every answer with: I take this offense, regardless of whether Buma, Klaver, Roemer or Pechtold asks the question. Do you know why that is? Because we're asking for numbers. Numbers that the Prime Minister calls, we're going back to the zero in six to eight weeks of figures he gives us on Prince's Day, official figures. Figures that all turn out to be wrong. We take offense at that! When this note was finished in September, and I don't care if it was the 16th, the 17th, when we were standing here, or the 22nd, or the 22nd, there was a number hanging above the market of almost 100,000, while here in the Chamber it was said: have faith, there are 26 000. Then I expect a cabinet to inform the Chamber that the picture of the week before that looks different. Then we were told, no, we don't do that in between. Then it was done in the middle of November. So it's possible. This whole debate is about refugee flows. This whole debate is about fragile support for the Dutch people, to stand for it all. What we need is a prime minister who doesn't magic with numbers. He makes predictions in January about the return flow, which he is already retiring today, and he tries to muffle away a note that was published in September, and it doesn't matter on what day, because he had mentioned other numbers here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u304	We're talking about hurricane strength here. Let's just say in peace for a moment that the piece was not known on Prince's Day. That is what was still being worked on at the time. That piece was completed on September 22nd. As far as we can tell, they started writing on the 17th or on the 18th, but it wasn't known. It wasn't established until the 22nd. The influx was still 92,000 then and then ran up. At the time of final adoption of the document, it was 93,600. These pieces have never been shared with the Chamber in history. Those are Unterlagen, underlords to come up with a decision on how to budget the asylum influx. We've been doing this for years. This is an important input. Then, of course, you can ask the question, why you deviate from that. In his letter of 21 January this year, Secretary of State Dijkhoff replied: we have good reasons for this, policy and also policy objectives. I just outlined that. Why do you change it to Navy Note? Partly because of the fact that we have of course established together on Prinsjesdag already that there was about 26,000 for 2016, while at that time there was an expectation in the 2015 Millions Note of 40,000, which was later raised to 58.000. At that time, we said that it would be wise to share with the Chamber now, simply openly, as we are used to, that we expect that the influx for 2016 will also be much higher than the 26 000 projected in the budget. That's how it happened. I sincerely believe that otherwise Mr Pechtold will have to tell me where he sees that it is not right that we have acted properly. At least we tried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u305	The image that the Minister paints over and over again is that he pretends to be able to keep up with statements like after six to eight weeks we are moving towards zero. At the moment when this does not turn out to be the case given the projected figures, he says: that was then and that was official. Imagine if the Central Planning Office says that next year there will be 50,000 job seekers; there will be no 600,000, but there will be 650,000. Then the cabinet says: this Asscher is doing a great job and it is going crazy, we are passing 500,000 to the Chamber because we think 100,000 are going down. That is quite similar to what is happening here. Thanks to Newsuur, thanks to journalists, we now have this note which goes into detail. It is not a battle in the air, but it has been calculated that 93 600 refugees are involved. In the same week, the Prime Minister is here telling us that there are 26,000. This removes the support base and makes the fragile confidence that the Netherlands has in the policy that is being pursued here with regard to refugees vulnerable. That's what we need to talk about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u306	The comparison between this Multi-annual Production Prognosis and the CPB is not valid. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice writes in his letter of 21 January that the number 93.600 is based on unchanged policies. However, the policy had been changed, both in terms of content and in terms of further objectives of complementary policies. I sincerely believe that we have dealt with the Chamber properly here. In fact, we have also succeeded in accelerating this adjustment of the forecast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u307	This was just about the numbers. I have a colleague in my group who is always very willing to help the cabinet with documents not to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u308	Would you please keep him out of sight tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u309	He's not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u310	I'd like to come back to that later. We talk very often about 'back to zero','six to eight weeks','some hundreds of refugees'. These are statements by the Prime Minister which we must understand later that they were meant to be different. I don't like it. A Prime Minister's statement must be clear at the moment. In Buitenhof, the Minister also said that if the Netherlands does not move towards zero in March, it must be prepared to take action itself. Now he's already taking an advance on that saying "I'm not gonna tell you." That is not wise, because it will be March soon and then we will hold the Prime Minister to it. Let me give you an example. Austria intends to set a ceiling. Has the Prime Minister taken note of this and is that one of the measures this cabinet is considering?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u311	The objective of policy is to a large extent to reduce the flow of asylum. "Back to zero" concerns the flow from Turkey to Greece, and that is necessary to enable an important filter, an important tool, namely resolution, to inform groups of refugees from Turkey to stop the irregular flow and to start the regular flow. The aim of policy is not that zero, but to a significant extent to reduce the influx. Then there is Mr Buma's question. There are many suggestions in many places about what you could do in the "what, if" scenario that it would not succeed in getting the flow under control with a European approach. Mr Buma makes a suggestion and I can mention another ten or fifteen suggestions or variants. I've already outlined why I'm not going into that. This will immediately become international news, especially since we are now President of the Council. With this, all energy goes to commenting on the following questions. What did Mr Rutte say there? Is that what they're up to? Well, we find A, B and C of that. The eyes will no longer be on the ball of Turkey, the ball of Macedonia and the ball of the Western Balkans, but then all eyes will be on what I have said about it. That is why I am not doing so, and that is really in our national interest. Mr Zijlstra said it very well: the European Union is a national interest. Europe is currently at an extremely difficult stage. I think it is valuable to try as long as possible to work towards a European solution to this problem. I'm gonna compromise that solution if I'm gonna talk about what ifs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u312	That makes it difficult for the Chamber. We are now debating with the President of the European Union, who in this Parliament has flour in his mouth because of his foreign functions. If, however, the Prime Minister says to the Dutch people in January that it must be settled before spring, otherwise the Netherlands will have to take its own measures, then the parliament must be able to debate with the Dutch Prime Minister more than halfway through the deadline on what will happen. I'll tell the Prime Minister again that we're not abroad. He speaks as Prime Minister against the Dutch Parliament. He started in January by saying that the Netherlands should do something itself if it does not work in Europe. He shouldn't look at us. If I ask a simple question or if I can take a measure, the Prime Minister does not talk about it. I think it has to be. What are the options? What's gonna happen in the middle of March?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u313	I just outlined why I don't. I believe that it is in the interests of the Netherlands not to do so, because it makes a European solution, on which all the energy is currently focused, more out of the picture. That's why I didn't respond to plan Samsom. Many elements of what we are doing now, re-admission and resolution, for example, are very similar to what Diederik Samsom describes in that interview in the Volkskrant. I didn't respond to that either. I do not do that because I do not allow myself to be distracted from my work: do everything in my power to achieve a European solution. Of course, if that doesn't work, I'm gonna think about the what ifs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u314	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u315	It was the Prime Minister who started in January about the what ifs, not the Chamber! Now he says: I am sorry, I am President of the European Union and unfortunately I cannot tell you. So it is there, I suppose, because if a prime minister looks ahead, it is there. In a few weeks it will be "six to eight weeks." On that day, the Prime Minister must have something. If these six to eight weeks are over and Europe does not deliver the what if it takes a while what will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u316	I hope that when that spring peak comes, we in Europe have managed to put together all these filters to get the flow of refugees to an acceptable level. This is a level at which we can deal with social and political issues, for example in this section. At least I hope that the position of the Netherlands within that total influx is such that we in the Netherlands are able to cope with that flow. That is the purpose of my policy. Everything I'm about to say about what to do if that doesn't work, pushes that target away from me. I don't mind that, personally. Well, I'm personally sorry if it doesn't work out what I'm working on, but it's bad for the Netherlands. I therefore believe that we should not ask each other to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u317	I would like to go back to the figures, to the estimates. I think that the Prime Minister is too easy to ignore. He says that the 93.000 was the weighted average and ultimately the policy options were not yet included. The impact of the policy has not yet been taken into account. That's what the Prime Minister just said. On 20 November, the Chamber shared the new number that the cabinet took into account for 2016: 58.000. The documents we have received contain an official document dated 18 November, which is two days before the Chamber has been informed, which states: "The various European policies have been discussed within the working group. It appears that the decision-making process is still ongoing. Moreover, the flow of refugees is to a large extent policy-resistant." I can go on like this for a while. This shows that it is true that we have looked at what agreements have been made or are still in the process of being reached within Europe. This shows that officials say that the flow of refugees is policy-resistant. On the basis of what advice has the cabinet then decided that this number can be reduced? This question is relevant, because I get the strong impression that the cabinet has not looked at what is a realistic influx for the coming year, but at what can be politically supported as a coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u318	No, what can the country wear? How do you prevent a permanent erosion of police capacity? How do you prevent people at the IND and COA from being able to deal with the flow of refugees in a decent way? How do you avoid being able to teach the people who come here? How do you avoid being able to provide people with proper care? That's what we don't want. We've been watching that. We have therefore taken measures, such as the EU-Turkey deal that has come about, but also the fact that deadlines need to be extended, not as a policy objective, but as an effect of the large asylum influx. As a result, people are going to say: don't go to the Netherlands, because it takes too long before you get asylum or you can let your family happen. This is not a policy objective, but a consequence of the fact that we are dealing with a large influx which will lead to longer deadlines. We have all taken this into account. What are these effects? How do we estimate them? Are we prepared to take further action together, if that is not enough? In addition to the deal with Turkey, we have now added what we are doing in Greece, Macedonia and the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u319	I understand the cabinet's desire to go to the 58.000, but it's wishful thinking. You can't say that's the prognosis. So this is what you're taking into account for next year. Based on these figures, you make money available to ensure that the COA is ready and that everyone here in the Netherlands can do their job, that you are prepared for those refugees. My question is what the Prime Minister is basing this on. On what advice does the Prime Minister base that we can really stay on the 58.000? That he wants to, I believe, but what is the reality of what he is proposing here? I believe that the Prime Minister should give realistic figures. If he manages to stay down there, at least that's a victory. Once again the defeat is actually orchestrated itself. That is detrimental to people's confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u320	It's worse. The common objective is to be lower than the 58.000. I've told you before that you can't have this high influx every year. In fact, Mr Klaver is asking the right question. We cannot pin point exactly where you come from and we do not want to discuss an upper limit. Mr Buma asked whether we would then like Austria to mention an upper limit. We don't want all these discussions right now. We are working on a European solution and we are trying to get this problem under control along a European route. We have said that it is then the most logical to go out and it is a policy starting point, not an objective; the objective is lower than the 2015 implementation as a starting point and to establish together that we are willing to do everything politically as well as politically to bring those numbers down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u321	Before I give Mr Klaver the floor again, I should like to point out that the Prime Minister has been working almost an hour and a half on interruptions. He's only spoken for about ten minutes. I appeal to you. We have not limited the number of interruptions to a maximum, but I would ask you to be more cautious. I see a number of questions coming back in different forms. Please be brief and in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u322	I'll be even shorter than that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u323	I'm glad to hear it, too. Mr. Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u324	I really don't understand. This confirms the darkest suspicion I had, namely that the number of 58.000 written down is just wishful thinking. There is no assumption whatsoever as to how you could achieve that number, especially since the officials themselves write that the flow of refugees is actually policy-resistant. Against these opinions, the cabinet nevertheless chooses to assume a lower influx. I think this is how you organize your own defeat. That's bad for trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u325	For the sake of clarity, I refer to my previous answer, because the question has been repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u326	Mr President, all of a sudden I hear you talking about interruptions in two. So far, all the interruptions have gone in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u327	Yes. I thought I'd leave that space, but I can see that too much use is being made of it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u328	I'm gonna try to do it in half, but I'm not gonna rule it out in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u329	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u330	We are talking about filters, policy areas and policy language. What we don't want is people drowning in the Mediterranean. What we do not want is for people to end up in degrading situations at the border and to crawl under barbed wire. The Prime Minister talks a lot about Turkey and about what is happening there. The next line is, of course, Greece. We have talked a lot about hotspots, about screening, about sending economic refugees back and about resetting refugees who do have everything to fear. What is the deadline that the Prime Minister envisages when it comes to achieving results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u331	Do I have a lot to want there? Of course, I'm trying to do everything as quickly as I can. I'm not just trying. That's what we're all trying to do. We're working on that. I have not gone into this in detail, also in view of the length of the debate. We have talked a long time about Turkey and I have briefly outlined the other filters, namely Greece, Macedonia, the Western Balkans, Slovenia and Austria. Of course, Greece is extremely important. We can have a whole debate, especially for the Commission, on whether Greece meets the Schengen criteria and whether it meets all its obligations. You can now see initiatives from the Visegrád 4 to build a fence in Macedonia. This, of course, raises questions about how to coordinate this more European. That's gonna be tough, but we're looking at it. We also look at what it means to the Greek side of such a fence, how you prevent people from ending up in the open air in terrible and degrading circumstances. Frontex should be given a role there. Bert Koenders goes to Macedonia and Greece on Sunday and Monday. Lilianne Ploumen visits the Western Balkans Tuesday and Wednesday. We had a meeting here last Saturday, just to try to manage this properly. The fact that the fence is being built, threatened with construction or partly built there also shows that there is too little confidence in Greece's ability to guard the border. You can find all kinds of things and I can take Greece forever, but we try to achieve as many results as possible before spring. We do not have the luxury of having a whole debate on this. We must do what we can to encourage Alexis Tsipras and his team in Greece and offer our help. We have done so many times, and we are ready to do so immediately. We are also trying to ensure that the next few weeks are still going to be speeded up, for example with the border security team on Chios. I don't know if I'm saying it right, because I'm not much of an islander.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u332	Schengen is unsustainable if both the front door and the back door remain open. We can't carry that together anymore if Greece doesn't take care of it properly. The Prime Minister himself mentioned six to eight weeks when it comes to Turkey. Then it cannot be that we have endless patience with Greece when the situation there does not improve and both the front door and the back door remain open. What is the deadline for settling matters in Greece, especially with spring approaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u333	Those six to eight weeks are not about Turkey, but are intended to reduce the flow to our part of Europe, that is to say to Germany, Austria, Sweden, which is the most affected, and to a lesser extent to the Benelux countries. That's what it's all about. In six to eight weeks we'll be more or less in the spring and when the weather improves, that peak threatens again. Before then, you want to achieve things, and Greece is one of them. I agree entirely with Mr Segers, by the way. We're working very hard on it, too. There are very intensive contacts. Again, Koenders is going back this weekend. Today our highest international diplomat in this field worked in Athens with the Turks and the Greeks. He will be in Berlin tomorrow to shape other aspects of cooperation. The Netherlands is pulling on all sides to work towards a European solution. However, considering Greece in or from Schengen and Article 26 et cetera is not very useful, because we must try to achieve as much practical results as possible in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u334	I had indeed asked the same question about Greece. I hear the Prime Minister saying as a chorus that European solutions are being worked on. I understand that, but at the same time other countries are becoming increasingly impatient. The Danish Prime Minister spoke again these days about a mini-Schengen. To what extent do other countries take all kinds of far-reaching measures if these European solutions do not come soon? Then we have a disproportionately high influx in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u335	Well, if you're being very honest, at the moment the influx to the Netherlands is the lowest, while it's one of the most affected countries. It's still too high in society. If you compare it to Austria, Sweden and Germany and even Belgium, we are quite low. With the numbers I have just mentioned, we have an influx which, in our opinion, is an excessive burden on the social security system up to and including the police. That's why you need to be able to reduce those numbers further. The 58.000 is not a goal for this year, because of course you want to get under it. We're working hard on that. So far, the initiatives of other countries are not so bad. For example, Sweden announces a lot of things, but you still see a very high influx. Denmark mostly had transition............................................................................................................................ People do not come to Denmark to lose their watch or not; they come to Denmark because of its high prosperity. What you have to achieve is that people there have perspective. You can see, however, the effects of the fact that procedures take longer. That is not because we want or choose to do so, but it is the effect of the fact that we are slowly having overloaded services, which means that the deadlines are longer. This leads to less influx, because it makes you relatively less attractive in the eyes of asylum seekers compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u336	I understand what the Prime Minister is saying and that in other countries it doesn't go as fast as it seems. On the other hand, it continues to convince people in the Netherlands that European solutions are being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u337	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u338	They'd like to see some results, too. When does the Prime Minister expect us to actually see a reduction in influx into Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u339	I'm not gonna promise anything about that. I can only say what the aim of the policy is, and that is to have a European solution before the spring peak comes. From the European approach, you can see, with all these filters, that the influx is declining. We're working very hard on that. I have also said to Mr Buma and other speakers that, of course, you should always think about what if that is not enough. If there remains a higher inflow, it is of course most important what the relative influx is in the Netherlands. We are, of course, primarily here for Dutch society, but as far as I am concerned, in a European context as long as that is possible. That's why I've been working on that for as long as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u340	I'll come back to those six to eight weeks. I understand very well what obstacles and difficulties the Prime Minister sets out. After all, you depend on so many factors. Is everyone sufficiently cooperative or not? However, the Prime Minister does not mention this time limit for nothing. The goal is to achieve that. My simple question is: what can we charge the Prime Minister in six weeks' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u341	I leave that entirely to Mr Roemer. I don't have the luxury of thinking about that at all. The problems are so terribly complex that I really leave the answer to that question to others. What I am trying to achieve... No, "I" sounds incredibly arrogant in this regard, because I do it together with Klaas Dijkhoff, the cabinet, Bert Koenders, Lilianne Ploumen. They're on a trip this weekend. An entire battery of civil servants is working on this day and night. Our diplomats are working on this day and night. Fortunately, a lot of people from other countries, such as Germany, Austria and the countries, are working very hard on this. We're all working very hard to make all these filters work. That is the aim of the policy, which can reduce its influx. If that doesn't work, you'll get to what ifs I don't want to specify. Then it will not be possible at European level. I'd hate to. I am trying to regulate it at European level, but if it does not succeed, you must also, of course, ensure that you do not lose sight of the Dutch interest. I understand that, too. However, I do not have the luxury of thinking about what I can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u342	I understand very well what the Prime Minister's objective is, because he has now explained this to the Chamber five times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u343	Yeah, that's the benefit of a debate like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u344	Yeah, but after one time, he could've quit on me, too. I'll leave it to me where I'll take care of the Prime Minister. However, he does not come forward with these statements for nothing. So he must also have a goal in mind. Where does he want to stand in six weeks to say: okay, given the circumstances this is the minimum I would be satisfied with? Doesn't he have to have at least an actual purpose? So not only the goal to use all the possibilities, but also the goal where he wants to be somewhere in six weeks. Let the Prime Minister share with us where he wants to stand and I will be lenient in the reckoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u345	I think I have said this a great many times. I do not want to be satisfied, because this is not a process to be satisfied. Mr. Roemer understands that, too. None of us will be satisfied. The aim of the policy is, however, the following. Soon it will improve again, and that is likely to lead you to know that never be sure to create a much larger stream of refugees from Turkey via Greece and across the Western Balkans to our part of Europe. The aim is to manage that power before then, preferably by making the filters work in Turkey, between Turkey and Greece, in Greece, in the Western Balkans, in Macedonia. That would be the best part. No, it's not pretty. That would still be the best outcome, with all the misery there is. If you can't do that, you have to look at what ifs to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u346	Let me ask you more specifically. What number is the prime minister going to think of the what ifs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u347	I do not mention numbers. I refer Mr Roemer to Mr Zijlstra's reply. We want to reduce this power to an important extent. We want to bring them back in such a way that the police, the IND and the COA can do the first reception right again. Others said the same thing. We never want to run the risk of having to drive buses at night because people can't get shelter. We saw the footage from the country in October and November. But the sequel is also important. People really need to be able to make a positive contribution in this society. This should not lead to an overload of our other systems. People need to be able to integrate into this country as best they can. We must work together to ensure that we do not make concessions in terms of our standards, our values and our way of life either now or in the future. For that, it will really be necessary to contain that flow of refugees. But also then the Netherlands will be open to refugees, to people who really flee bombs, grenades and the most terrible acts of war. Somehow we're gonna have to offer these people a safe passage. However, the current numbers are simply at a level that we cannot handle in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u348	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u349	Mr President, may I suggest that you give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u350	I call the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u351	Mr. Chairman. I really had a wonderful introduction of half an hour, but I will save it for the sake of time and because there are a number of substantive questions that need to be answered. Mr Klaver asked for the extension of the decision-making period, which I announced yesterday. How are we supposed to see it now? To put it bluntly, you should think of it mainly as an insurance policy. I have a six-month decision period, which starts to run immediately after registration. I have a seven-month waiting period between registration and the start of the procedure. So it's already gone wrong. Especially for this purpose, we have included an article in the law in order to extend the deadline to 15 months in such cases. So that is not a deadline I have chosen. It's just standard six and otherwise you have fifteen, so that's why we used that legal space to prevent us from getting all kinds of legal complications that cost even more work, regardless of being able to decide on matters. The delay is therefore a fact and it is better to make use of the possibility offered by the law to cover it legally. It is not the case that things take longer at once because I have made this decision. It's the other way around: things last longer and then you use that safety valve. Mr Klaver also asked: can we not better ensure that it goes down by investing in the IND? We have already increased the capacity of the IND several times in the past period, making the relationship between experienced employees and new employees fifty-fifty. If we were to hire new people, that balance would get really out of hand. You first get a collapse of your production capacity again because you have to train each other. There's no standard education for it. These deadlines would then start to rise again, and by the time the recruited people have entered the labour market, you will be further behind. Given the objective we have to reduce the influx, I do not think that this would be the best remedy for the people who are now influx. Mr Samsom asked: if it takes so long, can we have people do more than ping-pong, the classic image? It is an important aspect that there is a useful daily use. We'll start with basic Dutch as soon as we can. That is not right, except, of course, for minors, for children who should receive education. Starting with basic Dutch doesn't mean that the training is started immediately, but a start will be made. We also encourage volunteering. Mr Asscher is removing barriers which were mainly bureaucratic in nature. The COA also considers within the framework whether Dutch lessons can be offered in a more structural way. It is of course true that we now have a little more air for that because the inflow is clear. I don't want to say "low" because he's not. However, most of the pressure is still on the creation of shelter. Quality and quantity are not each other's friends here. So I have to temper the expectation a little bit, but the COA is also working on it itself. It also contributes to the manageability at the location itself. A lot of questions have been asked about small-scale care. I said it before: it would have been nicer if we, as a society, had discovered that we wanted small-scale shelter when we had an influx of 15,000 a year. We're figuring it out now while we have a very high influx. So it doesn't get any easier. Although I have no problems with small-scale care, I would like to point out once again that you cannot say that there are more problems with large-scale care. I also get calls from aldermen who say that I am now arranging a shelter for 600 and now I have to explain every time that this is not going to be a problem at all. No, I'd rather have 600. Last week I was happy in the AO because I thought I had clarified the difference between Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks and myself about what is small-scale. We actually came up with it then, but perhaps I should read back the Acts because I am now going to doubt that 300 is small-scale. But now I hear again that this is 150 and that 300 is too big again. Yeah, if we're gonna halve it a week, it's gonna be tough, especially with the influx that we wouldn't want to be that high. However, if you want to make that influx even bigger, as Mr Klaver argues, or because you want it or because you think there is nothing to do about it, then it's going to be a lot more small-scale reception per municipality, otherwise you don't have the total number of beds you need. But 300 is good to do. With smaller numbers you should also really look at status holders. There are still more than 15,000 people living in asylum seekers' centres who should be integrating in a municipality for a long time. They have a status. They must live there and make room for people who are supposed to be in an asylum-seekers' centre. I also really share what Mr Samsom said in his first term, namely that the Chamber should let me know if there is a specific problem. Often there turns out to be something else behind it and sometimes we find out that something did go wrong. I would prefer to know as soon as possible, because I have no luxury in refusing 300 beds of any kind that are just decent fit. So I repeat that call, in case there are concrete signals about it. Mr Roemer asked whether all the children in the centres are now receiving education. That's pretty much the case everywhere. In a few emergency shelters we are still organizing it. Even if you just opened a new emergency shelter, you're gonna have to take care of it. In some places we still do this with volunteers and that still needs to be dealt with. In Heumensoord it took longer than we all wanted, but there too education has been available since 11 January. Mr. Buma asked how many shelters are needed when you're around 90,000. That's gross 107,000, because of 17,000 places I have now, I know they'll cease to exist in the course of the year. Heumensoord is a well-known example of this. Next, the question is how many people are pouring out again. How many people can go to a place? How many people are rejected? By combining the results of the better efforts of municipalities in housing licence holders and the normal outflow, one might expect that it will be hard work, but all the numbers are hard work and 50,000 people are pouring out during the year. On balance, you have to realize 57,000 places in a year with an outflow of around 90,000. We can all make those spreadsheets, but the question is how we're gonna arrange it. However, that ignores the question or question. Everyone does their best, everyone works hard on it, but when I look at how things are going with the municipalities and with the support base, and when I look at the extra numbers to realize this year, I wouldn't bet on myself. Betting on yourself is called match fixing; I wouldn't do that. Then I come to the question about the incident figures. There are relatively many incidents, but relatively fewer prosecutions by the D.A. If there is a criminal offence, it will be reported to the police and reported to the police. If a COA member of staff saw it, he'd report it himself, otherwise we'd encourage it. It is, of course, true that these figures are always somewhat delayed, because a conviction always takes place a while after the incident. Asylum seekers must, of course, be punished if they have broken the law. Persecution also takes place in practice in the case of persecutable facts. Not every incident from the reports we have recently published can be traced back to follow-up facts. I have recently tightened asylum policy so that you can object to much lighter convictions than before in the asylum procedure. Last week, I promised the Chamber that I would also come forward with an answer to the question of whether, in addition to the six-month limit, you might have to say unconditional punishment for a particular type of crime: in that type of crime, we find a proven statement before a judge enough, regardless of the penalty imposed on it. I am now exploring the extent to which I can incorporate this into international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u352	I see Mr Segers and Mr Buma at the interrupting microphone, but I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the remaining questions. I think he's almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u353	Mr Van Klaveren asked whether we could not outsource the asylum procedure to third countries. If you look at the cabinet letter of 8 September, our vision is that we want as much shelter as possible in the region, and resettlement as the only route in the context of burden sharing. Of course, there are similarities. In the case of reception in the region, you can apply for protection there. Coming to Europe by a way other than resettlement leads to a rejection on the grounds that there was a safe alternative. I do not know if the Chamber knows the asylum procedure in third countries, but there is a protection procedure and there is protection in that third country, to replace here. Mr Krol asked why we are making even more border guards available if things aren't working out in locations where border guards of ours are active. Of course, that's a choice. We sent in the fire department, but the fire hasn't been put out yet. I'd rather send another car than bring back the ones that are there now. The fact that it is not going well enough underlines the importance that our aid is needed, and not only ours, but also that of other European countries. Only, of course, the first and final responsibility remains with the Member State itself. We in the Netherlands cannot guard the whole of Europe's external border, but instead of saying to Greece that it must do its best, by underlining our presence that we have that interest and helping it in practice. Some things can make one angry, for example because one Member State says that more needs to be done, and some things have no experience at all. It helps when you help, make resources available and explain how it works and makes people there better at doing their work at the external border. Finally, I come to the question of police capacity. Of course, it's a lot of work for the police to maintain public order. Right now she can handle it, but she can't be in two places at once. There's about 1,500 to 2,000 cops working on it now, which isn't very small. This also ensures that my colleague, the Minister for Security and Justice, of course keeps a close eye on whether it is still possible to act and whether the priority is not too much at the expense of other matters. As an organization, you must always be somewhat prepared for things that happen, such as displacement effects, and you must limit them as much as possible. At the moment, it doesn't lead to major problems, but you have to reprioritize. That is also a matter for local authority. The longer it takes, the more you'll feel and you'll have the discussion. My colleague has an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u354	My question is about what happened to those who have incidents on their consciences. Are we supposed to assume that these people are still in the process? Or are there people who have been told: it has been beautiful; you go away? For example, 55 sex crimes have been committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u355	I can't object until there's a conviction in our rule of law. Once prosecution is started, the procedure is suspended so that rights are not built up which, after a conviction, turn out to be a problem at once. I do need a conviction before I can really object to it. We can take other measures. I also think that we should be more strict on this and that we should tighten it up, for example in the case of the denial of reception. I undertook to inform the Chamber in March of what is still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u356	Thank you for that. I ask the Secretary of State to include as much as possible what happened after all these reports in those centres. In my opinion, receiving refugees is a lot harder for those who make a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u357	I will do so, because we fully agree on the content of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u358	You can only be merciful if you uphold peace, justice and freedom from others, so it really comes down to it. But we do need declarations and a prosecutor who is very active in prosecution policy. Now people come from cultures where people have suspicion of the police. What could be helpful is that today's plea has not been held for the first time, and is an independent confidant, so that people still have very low-threshold access, which means that incidents are reported much earlier when people are intimidated. Is there a visual on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u359	I believe that the COA employee himself should be accessible as a trusted person. In those cultures, there may be a little more suspicion to go to an authority, but I do not know if that is how the person's phenomenon is established. The COA employees, who are always there, must be available. They are, too. We train them in there. They must be approachable. They also need to know what is happening, preferably in order to ensure that a report is made and to maintain order and to do something about it immediately. Persecution of serious facts is one thing, but in the meantime it must also improve for those who have fallen victim to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u360	We have heard firsthand stories ourselves, but we have also read countless stories in the newspaper about incidents. They're stories of people who are intimidated. It is then extremely frustrating to see that there is a gap between, on the one hand, the amount of stories we read and hear and, on the other hand, the persecutions we are aware of. That hole's pretty big. The Secretary of State's right to say he needs a conviction. However, for a conviction, you need prosecution. So how come there's so little prosecution going on? This is extremely frustrating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u361	I understand that frustration. The gap is between the report and the prosecution, not between the incident and the report. So we do know. We also encourage people to press charges. However, once a registered incident remains with us, even if someone says after a week that it might have been a bit different. Then we don't cancel the incident report. But then it can be seen that there was actually no criminal and persecutable offence. There's a high threshold in society to report it anyway. Especially in the case of sexual offences, we also know more widely in society the difference between reporting and final reporting. However, we can only encourage reporting and we can only ensure that we have protection procedures, including in the case of, for example, signs of trafficking in human beings. And all we can do is make sure, pending the thought process, that people are taken apart and that the alleged perpetrator is transferred. Perhaps that will create more room for someone to press charges. But in the end, we can't force it. That's still a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u362	But for prosecution by the D.A., you're not dependent on a report. The D.A. can also prosecute on his own initiative. So this is also an encouragement for the public prosecutor to pick up these signals and, even without a declaration, to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u363	I'll see if there's any room there. But if someone doesn't want to press charges, it's usually a problem to put that person on the stand. The D.A. must have something to go on. The D.A. has a monopoly on prosecution, so I always have to be a little reluctant about this. However, I can see if my people experience a bottleneck in this aspect at the state's attorney's office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u364	We just got an answer to a question that we didn't actually ask. Our question was: what are the possibilities for spending the entire asylum procedure and asylum reception?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u365	I am a liberal party, but I had not yet received this privatisation. If another country offers protection and there is a protection title, it is de facto not necessary to offer that protection double. Within Schengen, of course, we have the Dublin agreements for that. That's also a form of outsourcing. But maybe I don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u366	A proposal was made in 2003 from England. That was about Transit Processing Units. It meant that the whole asylum procedure, for example in England at the time, was outsourced to Maghreb countries. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to outsource the asylum procedure, which we are now dealing with in the Netherlands, and also the asylum reception in asylum centres in the Netherlands, to countries in North Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u367	When I look at the letters from the government in September, I think it is enough to ensure safe reception in the region. Then I would rather not let my Dutch asylum procedure in Morocco go away. I would rather say that we should ensure that there is safe shelter in such a country. Of course, Turkey is also working on this. Someone who has a right of reception, but decides to come here and apply for asylum, can then be told that there is no right to asylum here, because there is safe reception available in the region. It would be good for the lawyers in such a country to transplant our asylum procedure, but I would particularly like to focus on safe reception there, so that the right of asylum here is made redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u368	Of course, that would be the best part. But what we really mean is that Dutch people handle the procedure there, so that we do not have asylum-seekers' centres, nuisances and illegality here. It's better to do that there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u369	If I put my IND in Casablanca, it would only be able to see that someone is entitled to asylum in the Netherlands. I'm afraid that has quite a sucking effect. With asylum in the posts, we have not stopped for nothing. So I would rather say: ensure safety and safe care in the region, and leave it there nicely. I wouldn't have my IND...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u370	The point is that this cabinet doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u371	Then I would read the cabinet letter of September 8th again. It is precisely this safe shelter that we want in the region. I say this with some modesty, because my will to do so does not make much impression that in a country like Morocco people explain directly the red carpet and organise it for us, even if we pay for it, but that is the stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u372	Thank you. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Speaking time is one third of that in the first term, that is to say for Mr Wilders a minute and twenty seconds, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u373	Mr. Chairman. I'll have to be brief. There's been a lot of talk and talk and talk and nothing changes. As I said in the first term, the Prime Minister should take the concerns of many Dutch people seriously, but the government has not wanted to for years. My group has been asking for years to find a national solution and to close our borders, and this is not happening. As I said in an interrupting debate, don't take a chance on that European route, because it's not gonna work. It never worked and it never will. We can see that, quite apart from objections of principle. We are a toy of the Turks, at least the Prime Minister is. The Greeks can't do it, no matter how annoying that sounds. I read an article in the Frankfurter Allgemeine the other day. When you see how that goes on those islands, that's really incredible. That's not a question of not wanting, but they just can't. Those refugees will therefore continue to come until we take our own responsibility and close our borders. That's what needs to be done. I find it incomprehensible that the Prime Minister should wait, wait and wait. That's why I'm filing this motion for the hundredth time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders and not to allow any more asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u374	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the first-term replies. I am indeed replacing Mr Pechtold, who has to go home early because of a sick child. The advantage is that I have been able to follow the first period fairly quietly and therefore I can probably draw some conclusions relatively independently. Yesterday, the Prime Minister was funny, but today, unfortunately, there was less laughing. Again, firm statements have been made: within six to eight weeks direction zero and the influx is rapidly decreasing. After critical questioning, these statements do not seem to be so harsh. The line of defense is a swallow doesn't make a summer. Those six to eight weeks suddenly do not sound like a result obligation anymore, but as an effort obligation. These kind of statements, and the backing back, are devastating for the support base. Local drivers work very hard to realize shelter. It's about people who want to know where they are and those people deserve to know where they are. That is why I am appealing to the Prime Minister tonight: be realistic about what awaits the Netherlands, don't make promises that you know you can't keep them and don't magic with numbers anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u375	With respect to Mr Pechtold, a sick child is simply force majeure, so no comment on that. But I do expect D66 to add some butter to the fish. I stood behind the chair and then Mr Pechtold said that he had confidential documents from General Affairs, which shows that the piece was there on 16 September. Now show me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u376	Mr Pechtold spoke about the knowledge of General Affairs officials on that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u377	We can bring in the Acts on confidential documents that prove it. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in D66 has not given this debate any opinion on what should happen with the asylum influx; no opinion, just commenting on other people's plans and throwing a hand mud into clean water, as I said, and saying, "Hey, look, cloudy water." Those accusations have been made. I waited for the second term, but nothing is being done. I ask that we now deliver that piece that Mr Pechtold indicated or withdraw that accusation he made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u378	A word about what Mr Zijlstra D66 is now calling for: no solutions of his own. I would like to remind him of the end of Mr Pechtold's first term, in which he said: hotspots, make them work; take care of capacity; redistribute systems, make it work. And so I can continue. Those are not proposals that my party made for the first time today. These are proposals that have been made for three years. My party, moreover, was that with Mr Ten Broeke himself after a working visit to Lebanon, was the first party to advocate that we should do more to support countries in the region in the reception, that we should do more to get the people who come there too. That was three years ago. I remember that well, because it was an opinion piece in the NRC of my hand. Mr van Broeke of the VVD drew a very different conclusion from that. He said it doesn't go that fast. I said at the time, it's moving so fast. That's where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u379	First of all this piece: then it is unusual that D66 threw away a plan of the VVD last year with which exactly that kind of thing was arranged. That is a very special twist, but let's move it aside for a moment. Then there is the accusation that Mr Sjoerdsma, I think, does not happen to respond to. A very clear accusation is being made by Mr Pechtold. In the second term, you will not return to it. Or D66 pulls in those harsh words and says they might not be entirely in place, or D66 makes it true. One of the two: what's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u380	First of all, about the reception in the region, which Mr Zijlstra is talking about and with which he started his first interruption. Mr Zijlstra pretends that his party has the exclusive right to emergency aid. Mr. Chairman, you're shaking a no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u381	I actually want to see whether this discussion can be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u382	I have already said that we are simply putting these discussions aside. The key question is: are you going to make up for that accusation, or are you going to nuance those words from the first term? It cannot stay in the middle when you speak such words. Mr Sjoerdsma, along with other colleagues in this House, sometimes tends to say that there are things wrong with other dossiers. If so, the VVD will be the first to acknowledge that we need to do something about it. But if D66 makes these accusations, you'll have to harden them. Harden or move in. Now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u383	Perhaps Mr Zijlstra, as he himself suggested, should read back in the Acts what exactly Mr Pechtold said. I think that's wise. I see Mr Zijlstra gestures that he is not going to do so, but I would advise him to do so. Then he can read exactly what Mr Pechtold said about what was known to officials of General Affairs. However, I would like to say a few words about the reception in the region. Mr Zijlstra claims it as his exclusive right, but I think that every party in the Chamber considers care in the region important. And it's not just that. At the end of this debate, I would also like to say that it was his cabinet that cut a billion dollars in development cooperation, which is precisely so crucial for reception in the region. Much has now been done, thanks to the opposition. That's good, but it's a question of whether it's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u384	I am very sorry, but I can only observe that D66 speaks very harsh words in the first term, but does not harden in the second period and then tries to get out of it. If things are true, you may tell them of me; that is right. But if you can't make these things hard, then at least be so big that you can nuance them or, if you can, withdraw them. But D66 doesn't have that greatness. That's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u385	I can only conclude that we did not find Mr Zijlstra on our side in order to find out exactly what was known to the cabinet. At the time of the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister insisted here that the estimate of 28 000 was good, whereas the entire opposition had its doubts. That was not so strange either, because the estimate was lower in the previous year. That was weird back then. I believe that Mr Zijlstra has done the same. Why didn't he join us in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u386	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet for its reply. I understand that the Prime Minister says he's so busy on that European route, so that's his main track. However, I have also heard the Prime Minister say clearly that the figures have to go down before that spring peak comes. That sounds clear to me. I must say that I really do not understand certain things in the contributions I have heard. Mr Klaver says, for example, that the number of 92,600 was in an official note; that is policy-resistant and that is the reality. Then we can go home! Politicians and drivers are here to act on that sort of thing, to react, to make sure that, if you don't want something, there is a policy to prevent it. It is incredible that we dare to say in this house that we simply accept that an official note states that 92,600 refugees are coming and saying: let it go. The VVD will never do that. Compliments for the cabinet that it didn't either. Then Turkey. Turkey is a country where much is wrong. We shouldn't put that under the seats or sofas. The human rights situation there can and must be improved. Moreover, this will never allow Turkey to join the European Union, as far as I am concerned. We need Turkey, even if it is about stopping the flow of refugees. But not at all costs, let that be clear. I say again to the cabinet, but also to the European Union: not only use the root. The root is good, fine, but the European Union is the largest economic power in the world. If Turkey does not fulfil its duty to guard its own borders and control the outflow, then we in Europe must also be prepared to use the stick. The greatest economic power also has that kind of means. Use them!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u387	Mr Klaver, you may respond briefly. I'm really trying to get to a conclusion. I do not want another debate to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u388	Definitely not. Maybe there's something else I need to clarify. Mr Pechtold did make a nice comparison with the CPB in the debate when it comes to the unemployed. If forecasts are made by officials, I just want them in the Chamber. Then I think it is important for the cabinet to say: "We expect this to be the amount of people that will come in. We must also prepare ourselves for this and, at the same time, we are taking measures that we believe will bring in fewer people." I understand that ambition. However, I have pointed out the danger that you are now sitting so low, almost half lower than the number predicted, on which, in my opinion, good arguments were also underlying, that you are creating your own defeat. This is ultimately detrimental to citizens' confidence in what we, as politicians, can achieve. That was my criticism, not the fact that the cabinet is going to try and stop this flow. Whatever I think of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u389	I am glad that Mr Klaver nuances his earlier words. I thought it might be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u390	I have not yet been able to read the short-term report, but did I hear correctly that Mr Zijlstra said that Turkey will never be able to be a member of the European Union, that accession will never be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u391	There's no way we're gonna negotiate human rights. Turkey is far from the accession criteria. So I do not see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u392	Does it make sense to talk to Turkey if that prospect of accession looks so obvious? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, Turkey can never join the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u393	As far as the VVD is concerned, Turkey should not join the European Union. Let that be clear. But it is very sensible to talk to Turkey. To be honest, I think that is the cheapest part of the whole deal with Turkey. Talking doesn't hurt. Fine! But Turkey must meet all the conditions. Well, they're miles away from that. And after that, we have to decide for ourselves. And if it's up to me, we'll say no, but I'm not alone about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u394	Madam President. I thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers given. I would like to make three observations to the Chamber. The first is about reception in the region and support for it. The VVD Group has already spoken very warmly about this. I am therefore very curious to see how this will work in terms of voting behaviour. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the flow of refugees to Europe is partly caused by the hopelessness of refugees in countries such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey;]] [[calls on the Government not only to use emergency aid but to support and encourage these reception countries to offer refugee prospects by improving access to the labour market, health care and education;]] [[calls on the Government to reserve additional resources for this purpose in the spring note and to inform the Court shortly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u395	My next motion is about small-scale care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large-scale reception, as in Heumensoord, leads to insecurity and nuisance;]] [[noting that the government has already been requested to commit to small-scale reception by means of an approved Voortman motion, while the government repeatedly indicates that large-scale reception sites should not be excluded partly because of financial considerations;]] [[calls on the Government to reserve additional financial resources for the deployment of small-scale reception in the Spring Paper, thus eliminating the need for large-scale reception,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Prime Minister announced a few weeks ago that the flow of migration to Europe should be drastically reduced within six to eight weeks;]] [[noting that it is not expected that the flow of refugees, including the bombings at Aleppo, will decrease in the short term;]] [[noting that Greece's hotspots are still not functioning due to lack of cooperation, which means that many migrants are not yet registered or screened and that migrants enter Europe uncontrolled;]] [[calls on the government, Greece, to cooperate within six weeks, so that the hotspots can be fully operational, and otherwise bet on a mini-Schengen without Greece,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer, Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2127]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u396	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. The discussion was not always easy, especially for the Prime Minister when he spoke about figures and objectives. No firm commitments, no real clear targets, but they are falling back in many areas. As far as I am concerned, the Prime Minister has a far too rosy story about Turkey, for example. He pretends that in no time less or no more refugees will come to Turkey and from there to Europe. In doing so, he deliberately throws a lot of sand into the eyes of the Dutch, because he knows how bad the conditions for refugees in the region are. He also knows that, especially when more bombs are about to fall, even more refugees are looking for a safe region, not only there but also in Europe. Some of the people are fleeing Aleppo now. That's where there's going to be a humiliating situation. The Prime Minister kept looking away from that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that tens of thousands of Syrian refugees, estimated to be 80% women and children, are currently stranded in the northern Syrian city of Azaz, but that the Turkish border is closed to them;]] [[noting also that there is a well-founded fear that the Aleppo bombing will bring hundreds of thousands of refugees to the city;]] [[Considers that, as aid organisations report degrading situations in which children and mothers with babies exhausted on the side of the road wait for aid, a humanitarian disaster should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the promised aid for the reception of refugees on the Turkish side of the Syrian border, to provide emergency aid to refugees on the Syrian side and to inform the Chamber next week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u397	Mr. Chairman. While the rulers are still watching last night's footage... oh, just now? I don't know about that. I've seen the footage, too. Nevertheless, it is a good thing that the Prime Minister has been here today to debate with the Chamber the subject at present, namely the influx of refugees from the terrible war zone of Syria and around it. What surprised us today in an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister about what Turkey is doing was the extremely friendly, apparently for the international media, words addressed to Turkey. I said to the Prime Minister, and I repeat that here: this is the parliament in which the Prime Minister of the Netherlands is debating with the Dutch Parliament. If the Chamber asks what measures the cabinet is going to take, as the Prime Minister himself said on Dutch television, then the Dutch Prime Minister responds and does not refer to the President of the European Union. Secondly, since January, the Prime Minister has been constantly magical with figures. When he's on TV, it's rosy numbers. When he's in the room, he's nuanced again. It can't be. A prime minister must communicate the same thing everywhere. That's the leadership that comes with a crisis like this. The Prime Minister said that six to eight weeks after January, the influx to Europe must return to zero. That was a statement, and that is a statement, and so we hold the Prime Minister to it. If that doesn't work, the question is what the cabinet will do. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Prime Minister said in January 2016 that the flow of refugees to Europe should be reduced to zero within six to eight weeks;]] [[Whereas this deadline expires in mid-March;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of 15 March of the concrete measures taken by the Cabinet if the decline is insufficient,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Segers and Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u398	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for answering the questions raised. The most important point from my speech was that we must realise that refugees are not coming here because it is so nice here, but that people are being pushed away by the terrible situation where they come from, and that I am concerned about the tone of 'less, less, less refugees' and also about the promise or suggestion made by the Prime Minister. We have had a whole debate on the figures. How many there will be this year and whether the policy of the Turkish authorities is already having an effect. I hope it has become clear to the Prime Minister that he must be wary of his expectations. I have one motion, which deals with an important point that I have made: resettlement. I believe that we should do much more in this area and make a greater effort. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the pressure of the number of refugees in the region has become unsustainable;]] [[noting that refugees do not have a safe route to flee to Europe;]] [[noting that UNHCR calls for 460,000 places per year for relocation of the most vulnerable refugees from the region;]] [[noting that Europe only provides 22,000 places in two years and the Netherlands only 500 per year;]] [[Calls on the Government, within the framework of the European Presidency, to work with the European Commission in consultation with UNHCR to significantly increase the number of resettlement places in Europe;]] [[calls on the government to increase significantly the number of places in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31637-2131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u399	Mr. Chairman. A remarkable part of this debate was about the figures for the last weekend. They really illustrate how uncomfortable this debate is. When I was there, I saw how fanatical and motivated the police are to stop refugees and catch human smugglers, but how impotent she is to cut a dent in a pack of butter in a dark night. So I understand the Prime Minister very well when he seizes every opportunity to compliment Turkey on its efforts, but the uncomfortable truth is that the wave height determines how many people cross, and that will remain so for a while if we do nothing. There are more uncomfortable truths that have been ignored in this debate by others. The uncomfortable truth is, of course, that you can never solve this on your own, nationally. The uncomfortable truth that putting a fence around the Netherlands technically, financially, let alone politically and humanitarianly, is impossible. The uncomfortable truth that a large resettlement programme will never prevent people from getting into a boat and drowning on the way, that you can still be so generous with resettlement from any country, but that the urge to go to Europe really needs to be made manageable in a different way, in order to prevent photos of that boy from ever popping up again in that red T-shirt. The uncomfortable truth that there isn't something like first going to zero and then resettle, but that things really have to happen at the same time. And so the uncomfortable task of doing everything from now on to make sure that we make the flow of refugees manageable for those who come here and for those who are already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u400	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet for its attempt to answer the questions raised. Unfortunately, that has not always been possible. For example, we do not have an answer to our legitimate demand for the maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands can handle. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also did not answer this question. We do believe that an answer is necessary, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the asylum influx remains unprecedentedly high;]] [[Whereas this has and will have a major social and economic impact on society;]] [[Whereas the Dutch absorption capacity is not infinite;]] [[calls on the Government to state the maximum number of asylum seekers that it considers the Netherlands can handle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u401	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I had two motions, but I won't file them. This debate shows that something is fundamentally wrong. I will return to Mr Zijlstra in a moment, whom I see responding. I am concerned about the attitude of this Chamber towards the greatest challenge we face in spring and summer. The flow of refugees will not decrease if the European Union does not stop the Russian bombing of Syria, if the international community does not find a political solution for Syria, if the Netherlands throws bombs on Syria and if the attitude towards Turkey does not improve. Because whether you like it or not, you really need Turkey if you want a solution. Wilders will file hundreds more motions. Pechtold will be on the Interrupt Microphone for another thousand hours. Zijlstra will make great efforts to defend the Prime Minister. Buma will question the Prime Minister's reliability for a year and Samsom may still have time to submit one little plan. But this flow of refugees, dear people, will not be reduced if we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u402	Madam President. I thank the rulers for their reply. For the SGP Group, the commitment remains more and better reception of refugees in the region and less influx to Europe and the Netherlands. This evening's chorus is that we are working on a European solution, but it is slowly becoming increasingly impatient to see if we will actually see the effects of it. I look forward to a debate in a few weeks' time on whether we have actually managed to move forward at European level or whether we will have to move forward with plans B and national measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u403	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. Too bad the impression lingers that there is a lot of magic with numbers. 50PLUS always hammers on the following points. Try to stop the crossing. Let us guard Europe's borders. I hope this will happen now. Trafficking in human beings must be punished more severely. There is a need for clearer information in the countries of origin on the limited possibilities in the Netherlands. We opt for care in the region as much as possible. The Netherlands must then be prepared to provide additional support to these countries. There is no room for economic refugees. In the first term, I referred to the 50PLUS motion adopted in October, which called on the government to contribute to a fairer distribution of refugees across the continent of Europe, which is greater than the countries of the European Union. I have asked for a response to this and hope that I will have it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u404	I see the Prime Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u405	Can Mr Krol repeat the last question at the interrupting microphone, because I really did not understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u406	Yes. Mr. Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u407	A motion was adopted in October in which the Chamber called on the government to ensure that not only the EU countries but all the countries of Europe are taking part in the reception of refugees. It would be nice to hear what the government has done with this motion. For reporting, it's motion-Krol in part no. 1020 (21501-20).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u408	The Secretary of State was there, maybe he could say something about it? He's also handling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u409	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u410	Secretary of State Dijkhoff is discussing a motion and I'm discussing a few. First of all, I would like to say something about Mr Roemer. I am not positive or non-positive about Turkey, I am realistic. I think it is our joint task to seek a European solution for as long as possible. For a European solution, Turkey's cooperation on all fronts is extremely helpful, so to speak. It is not that I am positive about that, because I am losing a lot of energy. I'll be hating myself to make an assessment of that. I think it is up to me and all of us to try for as long as possible to complete this obvious route as well as possible. I hope that he will work and that we will otherwise be able to take other European measures. If not, you'll come up with alternatives. I'll be on the motions after I've pointed out John van der Tol's Twitter account. We were just looking at that when Mr Buma asked me a question. He sees himself back there. The motion in part No. 2125, referring to the debate. I will continue with the motion on part No. 2126. We in the European Union are prepared to spend a great deal of money on projects in Turkey by means of standing policies. It is 1 billion from the Commission's budget and 2 billion from the Member States. We support Lebanon and Jordan in humanitarian terms. This year an additional EUR 125 million has been made available for all humanitarian aid to Syria and neighbouring countries. I do not want to anticipate the decision-making process in the spring paper. We still have enough nuts to crack. In short, I would advise against this motion. The Secretary of State discusses the motion in part No. 2127. For the motion in part No. 2128 It's about Greece. We're doing everything we can to get those hotspots to work. I think it's unwise to talk about what ifs already. I have already said during the debate that this is not helping. It will also reduce the chances of a successful approach. The motion in part No. 2129 I find sympathetic, but on balance I dissuade her, because I sincerely believe that she is superfluous. We're doing this. We are working on all sides to help on the Syrian side. To focus precisely on the situation around Aleppo, that is too much to ask at the moment. As I said, we are releasing an additional 125 million for aid to the Syrian problem and neighbouring countries. In that sense, I consider this motion to support policy, but also to be superfluous, and that is why I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u411	I am very sorry about the latter. I'm really asking the Prime Minister to at least make it Chamber of Justice. After all, there is now a humanitarian disaster on the Syrian-Turkish border. The only thing I am asking the Prime Minister is an effort, to try as widely as possible to get people to come, to bring countries along, to provide humanitarian aid on the Syrian side as well. We do not want to see all kinds of images on television next week, when the Prime Minister said that he was not even worth an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u412	My position is another, namely that we are already doing this with all the help, including financial, for Syria and neighbouring countries. I am referring to what we have previously made available and what has now been added by the London conference. It is too much to ask to say that we are going to target this kind of issue very precisely. That will really have to be looked at further in the operation now. I don't think we have a disagreement about this. I just think the motion is unnecessary. That's actually my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u413	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u414	No, we disagree. This really is a very specific place, following the bombings by Russia and the regime of Assad at Aleppo. They have brought an enormous flow of refugees with mainly women and children to the northern Syriac city of Azaz. According to Amnesty International and many other organisations there is now a humanitarian disaster. So that's a specific place where something plays. Please don't look away and give the Chamber a positive opinion. The international community will have to do something there in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u415	We all agree on that. My position is that with the resources we have available to Syria, which we have had and which we have been given, and with all the initiatives that are under way, this type of humanitarian misery must be combated, as far as it is possible to actually provide aid in that war zone on the ground. We are one of the two countries throughout the European Union, together with Germany, which have offered concrete help to the Turkish side of the problem. We are also among the top donors on the Syrian side. I really believe that Mr Roemer and I agree on this. I also think that the motion could lead to confusion, as if there would be extra money or things would not happen. That's why I'm maintaining the advice. The motion in part No. 2130 assumes some sort of moment. What we need to do is to get that influx under control in the near future. To this end, we must make a success of the European rail network. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 2130. Then I come to the motion on part No. 2131. We are doing everything we can to make the existing initiatives a success. This also includes making, if possible, a success of a resolution scheme when the influx from Turkey to Greece goes to zero. On top of that, I believe that this motion calls for an increase in the number of places for refugees entering the UNHCR alongside them. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 2131. As regards the motion in part No. 2132 by Mr Van Klaveren, I refer to the debate. With that referral, I advise against this motion. I think the Secretary of State can still respond to the remaining motion and answer some questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u416	Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent the Prime Minister from dissuading all motions, I will take the motion in part no. 2127 dissuade. This motion calls on the government to allow for additional small-scale reception, which states that large-scale reception is no longer necessary. That's not how it works. If it is not enough, then we should also have not been able to accommodate people. That's why I wouldn't advise her, because I don't think that's a wise plan. I'm open to small-scale care. It's not like I have a lot of offers and we keep saying we don't do it because it's too expensive. That is not the factor. It's good to organize. However, as requested in the motion, I am not going to exclude large-scale reception now. If I can get it, why not? We've had shelters over 600 years ago. It's been going well for years. When a city says it's a good place to go, I don't see why I should refuse that shelter. I'm working on small-scale care. That's possible, too. I do not see what the motion adds. Mr Krol had a question about European countries which are not members of the EU. In the Western Balkans, a major meeting took place in the autumn, at the end of last year, which also addressed the need to have reception capacity. It has been extended and improved since then, and there are opportunities for that. Unfortunately, these countries are not yet ready to offer permanent reception in large numbers, but it regulates the flow better. In that sense, therefore, they take responsibility. During the last informal JHA Council, we discussed in detail the fact that we must also help Macedonia to cope with the influx into the Greek-Macedonian border. It should not go through this, because it is primarily Greece's responsibility to regulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u417	You're gonna come to a point of principle. The majority of the Chamber has adopted a motion and then we do not hear about it. This seems to be happening more and more recently. Motions are accepted, but then we don't hear from them anymore. It can't be. In that case, the cabinet does not take the Chamber seriously. Why doesn't the Secretary of State send a comprehensive letter in which he goes into exactly what he did or didn't do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u418	Because I already provide that information in reports and annotated agendas of JHA Councils. It is wise to concentrate and provide information where it is in place and not create another flow of information per motion that has ever been tabled. The things I mention now, I provide as a service. It's not news, but I'm just going to sum them up. The Court has previously been informed of this in the JHA reports and agendas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u419	However, I recognize Mr Krol's point that it is sometimes difficult to find out what action is being taken on a motion. Sometimes there's something hidden in something else. Would it not be an idea to indicate what has now been done with the various motions that have been adopted in the course of a subsequent progress report, or whatever else such a letter may be called?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u420	I'm having second thoughts. The motion calls for this to be addressed in all discussions with the partners from those countries. I have even indicated what the results have been. I think it is a rather bureaucratic undertaking to report on such motions, which call for contact reports, especially after each contact. If there are specific motions which have the impression that the content is not met in collection letters or other information flows, I am very prepared to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u421	Perhaps we can come back to the committee on how we wish to receive the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u422	Exactly. That's what I was gonna suggest. There is also a record of which motions are carried out and which are not. I would also like to refer to that. Mr Segers, it was about your motion in part No. 2127.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u423	Exactly. Thank you, Madam President. The bottom line is that in choosing between large-scale and small-scale care, financial considerations should not be decisive, precisely because the Court has so often put the emphasis on small-scale care. I am prepared to adapt considerations, and if we could approach each other on that point, we could move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-11-tweedekamer-12.u424	I keep repeating myself here, too. I do not have those financially decisive considerations. I don't see them either. As Mr Samsom outlined in the first term, you sometimes get an offer where you have to pay large-scale, but use small-scale. I'm not gonna make a reservation for that either, because tomorrow's prices are gonna go up. I don't have any examples of how it all worked out, but COA didn't. We also have small-scale reception and we also have a variety of sizes. That is where we were able to fit it financially. Then I should also know when the COA refused to do so. Then I'd rather hear it right away, so we can act on it right away, because extra shelter is extra shelter.
