ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u1	Eight speakers have spoken for this debate. It is a four-minute debate, so everyone has four minutes to speak. We've just been able to practice that for a while. I would like to welcome an extensive delegation from the cabinet: the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs. Welcome, also to the officials and the public who are following this debate. I give the floor to Mr Azmani as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. People in this country are rightly concerned about the large numbers of migrants who have reached our country last year. The question is whether these people will eventually feel more Dutch, or whether they will continue to feel especially connected to their homeland and therefore turn their backs on the Netherlands. Experience shows that this is a legitimate concern, and it is also right that this frustrates many Dutch people: they want to make use of our hospitality, but they do not want to go full for our society. One of the largest groups of newcomers is people from Eritrea, a country with a totalitarian regime. A country is not without danger, especially when one avoids compulsory service or leaves illegally. In the Eritrean community in the Netherlands there is still the same fear for that country and for the regime that these people have not left behind for nothing, but that they are haunted here. The regime is putting pressure on Eritreans to give up 2% income tax, which they have to pay abroad through embassies and consulates. In addition, Eritreans are forbidden to criticize their homeland. At the beginning of this year we even got reports that the threats would spread to people outside the Eritrean community, such as journalists and scientists. The only way for this regime to continue to oppress the people is to have those people watched by accomplices in our country. Do they support the government? If it turns out they do not want to sign a declaration, they are immediately regarded as enemies of the state, they no longer have to count on the support of the embassy, and even consequences for the family left behind in Eritrea are not excluded. It cannot be that people flee a regime and then become victims of the same regime here. Sometimes I even get the feeling that the Eritrean Government willfully let its own nationals flee, in order to obtain more financial resources. That's how the flow of refugees stays. It is quite impossible for people here to commit extortion, threat and intimidation on behalf of the Eritrean Government. This also applies to people who apply for asylum here, but are at the same time supporters of the regime. Nor can it be explained that people here apply for asylum, pay to the regime and even go on vacation to Eritrea. They don't belong here either. It's either one of two: either you're a refugee and you're calling for protection from the Netherlands, even if you're still under pressure from Eritrea, or you're not a refugee, but a follower. For the last group of people, as far as the VVD is concerned, there is no place in our country. The VVD finds it remarkable, to say the least, that development funds are being spent on these countries, as recently 200 million from the European Development Fund. Does the Foreign Minister intend to stop this? In addition, diplomatic relations with this regime are farce. The embassy has a deputy charger, with every indication that he was cooperating in the payment of extortion money to the regime. That's not an embassy. It's an Eritrean tax office. We do not need to facilitate this. Is the Minister prepared to summon the defendant to stop these practices, to expel him from the country or to exclude this tax office? This problem is not limited to the Netherlands. Other countries in Europe are also facing this. Is the Minister prepared to join forces to put an end to these shady practices? A few more questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who is responsible for integration. How will the Minister promote that Eritreans no longer feel connected to their homeland but to our country? What does the Minister think about the fact that more than 50% of the Eritreans in the Netherlands depend on the assistance and that, therefore, a totalitarian regime is financed through the 2% tax? Can we make that impossible? Is the Minister aware of the fact that there is a lot of black work among Eritreans to pay the tax? Is the Minister prepared to consider the Eritreans as a risk group in enforcement policy? Finally, I ask the Minister for Social Affairs whether he can rule out government subsidies to Eritrean organisations in the Netherlands that support these practices. Finally, my questions on asylum. In the assessment of asylum applications, the VVD wants an explicit assessment of whether someone is a supporter of the regime or not. It is also important that people report when they are threatened. They do not ask for a protected status for nothing. What does the Secretary of State think of this notification? They also travel to Eritrea. People go on vacation. To what extent does the government indicate that? Does that lead to the withdrawal of status? What is the government doing to signal this phenomenon? We must do everything we can to ensure that this dictatorship does not have the opportunity to extend its long arm to our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr Azmani spoke very quickly because he had a lot to say. Maybe he just ran out of time to ask the question I want to ask him. He rightly made a point of Eritrean organisations that maintain ties with the regime and put pressure on people here. What does Mr Azmani think about an independent investigation into these organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u4	I have spoken about this in the media before and I have spoken about it in a broadcast of Nieuwsuur. I think it is right that there should be careful investigation into organisations involved in the regime. I had a question for the Minister of Social Affairs about subsidies. To what extent do public subsidies go to these organisations? I can imagine that some municipalities in this country are not aware of the existence of these organisations and do not know that they actually facilitate that it remains a closed community. It keeps people feeling the long arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr Azmani and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u6	I am pleased to note that I am very much in agreement with Mr Azmani. I have a specific question for him. Mr Azmani briefly mentioned the 200 million European money that goes to Eritrea. Does the VVD believe that this should continue or should we do something else with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u7	That is also a question for the Foreign Minister. I find it impossible for money to go to that country, given the situation there. I also wonder to what extent this money reaches the people, as it is said. I don't believe that at all. I believe this sticks to the henchmen's bow. As an intergovernmental organisation, you have no mandate to do anything there. So I actually think that this is not possible and that this money can be put to much better use. I think I can agree with Mr Sjoerdsma on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr Sjoerdsma, are you going to give the same answer as Mrs Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u9	I won't, even if I agree with Mrs Voortman. I also very much agree with Mr Azmani's reply. He fears that this money will stick to the regime's stranglehold. That's the worst possible scenario. Is it an idea to use the 200 million for sheltering Eritreans in the region, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr Sjoerdsma is well aware that, in relation to asylum and migration policy, we believe that we should do much more to help refugees in the region. I myself think that the 200 million is better spent if the money is used for the reception of Eritrean refugees in the region, than when you transfer it to a country with a totalitarian regime and without freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. Eritrea is one of the most repressive regimes in the world. No national elections have been held for 23 years, political opposition is prohibited, freedom of the press does not exist, criticism of the government is not allowed and leaving the country legally is virtually impossible. For those who try to cross the border, a "shoot to kill" policy applies. There is a suffocating conscription which often amounts to ten years of forced labour. Let me conclude briefly that I am not surprised that the Eritrean population is fleeing massively. In the Netherlands alone, thousands of Eritreans have applied for asylum in recent years. I think it makes sense that they got that. Asylum in the Netherlands does not have to mean that these people have been released from the repressive regime of President Afewerki. In the Eritrean community in the Netherlands there is a culture of fear. People get double victims. The regime, through supporters in the diaspora, exerts pressure to give Eritrean money. Moreover, money that even seems to go to the terrorist group Al-Shabaab, if we should believe an ex-minister of Eritrean rule. Unfortunately, the harassment practices of supporters of the dictatorial regime are not limited to Eritreans alone. Scientists and a UN rapporteur say they are being chased and intimidated. That is totally unacceptable! We all know Turkey's long arm, but Eritrea's long arm is much worse. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet has tolerated these practices for too long and has been silent for too long. I want the defendant summoned on duty. I want Eritreans to be protected in the Netherlands. I want an end to the diasporataks. I want clarity on the financing of terror through the diasporataks. I would prefer to see the recipient of that terrorist tax, Al-Shabaab, which surprises me the most on the terrorist list. Why isn't that group on the list? It is completely crazy, I was just talking to Mr Azmani about the fact that 200 million will soon be going to Eritrea. According to Minister Koenders, this benefits, among other things, the socio-economic prospects of the Eritrean population. This is a country where people instead of studying and building careers perform forced labour for the regime. This is a country where every critical sound is immediately smothered. In that country we are going to work on'social and economic perspectives', I repeat. Those people are not fleeing from a lack of jobs, but from total oppression. Does the Minister really think that a new road and an extra well mean that the ten-year military service is suddenly going to be okay with it? Does the Minister think that renewable energy projects are going to tempt people to have a good life in Eritrea, I do not know what I mean by that? I don't think so. Minister Koenders says we're busy with military service. He writes that this is a step forward in the implementation of the reform of compulsory service. That sounds like President Afewerki is about to abolish military service. Add a few more millions from Europe and we're done. I have already asked several times whether the cabinet can guarantee that no money would go to Eritrea. Secretary of State Dijkhoff even reported that we weren't going to bring help like a crazy Henkie. Is the cabinet prepared to make the 200 million European money for Eritrea available for reception in the region? At least it'll end up with people who need it badly. The UN Human Rights Council has concluded that Eritrea is guilty of crimes against humanity. He ruled that Eritrea should come before the International Criminal Court. Is the Minister prepared to argue in the Security Council to refer the situation in Eritrea to the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. Around 5,000 people flee Eritrea every month. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights came up with a shocking report at the beginning of this month. The Eritrean regime is guilty of crimes against humanity, including torture, murder, disappearance, slavery, rape and persecution. That's why people run away makes sense. What a hellish sensation it must be if you as Eritrean refugee arrive here in the Netherlands and you are confronted with an interpreter who has ties to the regime for which you have fled. How painful it must be to find out that the regime you fled from finds you here, to be forced to come to so-called Eritrean celebrations with so-called musicians from Eritrea who are in fact Eritrean soldiers and to pay taxes to the regime because otherwise they will find your family in Eritrea. GroenLinks expects the cabinet to tackle the intimidation from the Eritrean regime. Today's letter doesn't match that. The cabinet is addressing the Eritrean regime with velvet gloves. The reverend seems to be falling apart from the merchant. Prior to this, Eritrean interpreters at the IND who had links with the regime were not put into action until after repeated parliamentary questions from GroenLinks. The cabinet letter now states that investigations have started into several Eritrean interpreters. How many interpreters are we talking about? Why has there been a wide-ranging review of all Eritrean interpreters? When will the investigations be completed? Will the House be informed of the results immediately? I'd like to hear a response. In Vrij Nederland of 25 May you can read that the Eritrean Association Amsterdam and Surroundings (EVAO) has a role in the organisation of the Eritrean celebrations. According to a directive in the hands of Vrij Nederland, the organising committee of these parties is accountable to the office of the Eritrean people and civil society organisations of the Eritrean Embassy, or an extension of the regime. If you don't go, you'll get a call, according to an anonymous source. You have to join in, otherwise your relatives in Eritrea will have problems with the regime. According to Vrij Nederland, the EFTAO receives a subsidy from the municipality of Amsterdam. Is that right? Isn't that unintentionally financing Eritrea's long arm? Shouldn't there be an investigation into Eritrean organisations in the Netherlands anyway? The indications that the consulate actively cooperates on matters such as extortion and intimidation are sufficient grounds for GroenLinks to conduct a specific investigation into the role of that consulate. We want to know if these allegations are correct. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, if it is true, this is a reason to close this consulate. The former president of the Young People's Front for Democracy and Justice (YPFDJ), the youth movement of the only party in Eritrea, was finally turned into inactive as an IND interpreter after repeated inquiries. However, I understand that the current chairman of YPFDJ Holland is now a volunteer at the COA, at a foundation that provides training in azc's. What is the screening of COA volunteers? What measures will be taken if a volunteer is associated with the Eritrean regime? I find this surprising, to say the least, and I would like to know how such a person can get through the screening of the COA. How does the Cabinet feel about this? Then there's the international component. The situation in Eritrea is more than worrying. Is the cabinet prepared to argue within the UN to refer the report of the Human Rights Commission on Eritrea to the UN Security Council? How can there be 200 million development aid from the European Union to Eritrea in the framework of agreements to stop refugees? If, through the European Union, we finance a dictatorial regime to stop refugees, do we not precisely feed the cause of these people's fleeing? Do we just indirectly finance the shoot-to-kill policy implemented by President Afewerki's regime to prevent people from fleeing the country? Does the cabinet believe that this is morally acceptable and, if not, why does it allow it to do so? Why continue this contribution to the Eritrean regime, even though the European Parliament has unanimously opposed it? I do not read in the letter anything about mediation in the border conflict with Ethiopia, which is precisely the breeding ground of the Eritrean regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u13	Would you like to finish, Mrs. Voortman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u14	I will. Is the cabinet prepared to steer UN mediation in the border conflict? GroenLinks wants Eritrean refugees, researchers and experts to be safe in the Netherlands. Above all, the EU must not become part of the crimes committed by the Eritrean regime here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. Having heard the previous speakers, I come to the conclusion that the Chamber is reasonably united on this issue, it seems. Anyway, I've prepared my input and I think I should let it be heard in this Chamber anyway. I could say that I agree with previous spokesmen, but that is a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u16	The President has no objection to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u17	It is an important issue, because as early as 2012 MP Timmermans called for tough measures, such as closing the Eritrean Embassy. Now, four years later, we can see that Eritrea's intimidation practices continue. In fact, it extends beyond the Eritrean community. Scientists, journalists and the UN rapporteur have been haunted and intimidated. The regime would also have infiltrated the IND. This requires a strong attitude from the Netherlands. Unfortunately, the cabinet is doing too little. Let me begin with the brutal dictatorship under President Afewerki's regime. Recently, a UN Committee of Inquiry presented a hard report. The regime oppresses its own population so systematically and widely that there are crimes against humanity. The case should be referred to the International Criminal Court. How does the Cabinet feel about this? More and more Eritreans are asking for asylum in the Netherlands and then being chased here by agents of the dictatorial regime they fled. In the Netherlands, that regime controls the refugees from the embassy and also imposes an income tax of at least 2%. Those who refuse must fear, among other things, the fate of the family left behind. It is crazy for words that such a thing happens in the Netherlands! The diasporatax is not illegal in itself, according to the cabinet. Is the cabinet prepared to examine the possibilities of restricting the collection of the tax in the Netherlands? What legal possibilities exist to prohibit the financing of this regime and indirectly the terrorist organisation Al-Shabaab? The letter from the cabinet and the answers to the parliamentary questions are disappointing. The cabinet opts for commitment through a political dialogue and actually knows little. There are cabinet reports by Eritreans known, there is no overview of the number of incidents related to the Eritrean regime, it is unknown how often critics of the regime have been harassed or threatened and yet the cabinet claims that the situation has not changed since 2014. Where does the cabinet base this statement when a Dutch scientist and journalists are now intimidated? It doesn't make sense what the police and the D.A. have done. How many Eritreans have been arrested? How many criminal investigations have taken place? How many diplomats have been declared a persona non grata? How many Eritreans have been expelled from this country for intimidation, threat and extortion? How many business permits have been revoked from Eritreans associated with the regime? The Civilian Court in Amsterdam ruled that the Eritrean youth movement can be regarded as an extended arm of the dictatorial regime and that information is provided from that organisation to the regime. What's the Cabinet gonna do with this? Is the Cabinet prepared to allow the AIVD to investigate Eritrea's long arm? This is linked to the question: does the AIVD have the capacity, after the cuts of the cabinet? The same applies to the prosecution and the police. The whole safety chain is under pressure. Two years ago, Minister Timmermans indicated that the Netherlands wanted to take appropriate measures at EU level where necessary. The issue was then raised at a high level of administration. On 21 March last, the Minister of V and J replied: there is no cooperation at diplomatic level with other European countries on harassment against Eritreans fleeing to Europe. How is that possible? What has happened since 2014? Has the EU done research? Have measures been taken or are being taken? Has it been discussed at ministerial level? What has the Netherlands done in its role as chairman? Why is the EU not doing anything? However, the EU is drawing a EUR 200 million check for development aid to address the roots of migration, said Commissioner Mimica. But isn't the regime itself the main cause of migratory flows? The EU wants deals with African countries, like the Turkey deal. The EU would also support the criminal, genocidal regime of Al-Bashir in Sudan. Our group is quite stunned about this. The cabinet says that dialogue or rapprochement must be prevented from strengthening the regime, but that is exactly what is already happening, albeit indirectly. That is an encouragement to continue with the practices in the Netherlands, including the brutal repression in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. The UN Human Rights Commission has issued another tough report. Colleagues have already pointed it out. That report mentions a total dictatorship in which people disappear and are raped, tortured and shot. That's as bad as it gets. For those of you who think that Eritrea's long arm is now a masse in the public gallery, I can say that it is not. Eritrean Dutch people who have just offered us a petition, including the signatures of 10,000 people who say that the Dutch government should act, as the SP has been saying for years. Despite the intimidation and threat of fled Eritreans, sometimes even by interpreters working for the IND, despite the fact that Eritrean Dutch people are forced to hand over money to the regime via embassies every month, despite the fact that women of childbearing age are raped and unwantedly pregnant, and despite the fact that a Dutch scientist is threatened, the regime can simply continue to operate in the Netherlands. Does the government agree with us that the Afewerki regime should come before the International Criminal Court in The Hague? Does the cabinet support this view? How is it that a total dictatorship of 200 million is supported by the European Commission? That's total insanity. Is Europe so desperate that it thinks that a dictatorship that is the cause of refugee flows is going to protect the same refugees? Stop it! Is the Cabinet prepared to make efforts to ensure that this money simply goes to the refugees through the UNHCR? They suffer from immense shortages and live under inhumane conditions. We have already asked the cabinet, or rather asked the cabinet, to examine the diaspora tax in an international context. Two years ago, the cabinet made a commitment on that point, but I have to say, two years later, that nothing has happened. Is the cabinet gonna do that now? The cabinet's gonna lead the way? Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate quickly the involvement of the Eritrean Embassy in collecting the diasporataks through coercion, urge and intimidation? If it turns out that this is the case, is the cabinet prepared to declare the persons responsible for this to be persona non grata in the Netherlands? Is this cabinet with Minister Asscher in the lead, willing to map those networks, that long arm of Eritrea in the Netherlands? Is it prepared to stop subsidies and to go out with those who oppose them? These are important questions, also for the people in the public gallery, who want answers to these questions in particular. Can't the D.A. and the police just start an investigation? I ask that in view of all the signals received in the reception centres and at the IND about harassment practices and other developments, and in view of all the facts that have been raised by Argos, for example. Ensure that the accomplices are tracked down and deported, if necessary, so that the victims can be protected and given perspective. It cannot be the case that people who are fleeing this regime to seek protection are being harassed by the minions of that same regime in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. The speakers before me have already highlighted many points. In part, I want to sum it up. From an international perspective, we are deeply concerned about the European Commission's 200 million committed to Eritrea. Result obligations must be respected, but there is no signal, not even in the UN report, that these performance obligations are actually achieved. What makes it possible for us to trust that the money does not flow directly into the pockets of the long arm of the regime, but ends up with the people who need it? It is precisely the military regime and the existence of military service that are the main reasons for people to flee. What can the European Commission do to bring to light the border conflict with Ethiopia, which is still going on, and to refer it to the UN Security Council, with which we, as a community, really take seriously this situation, which arose and continues in 1993? Colleagues have already said that the practice of the Eritrean regime continues in the Netherlands. Many people feel intimidated and do not feel safe. They're done. They are also in large numbers here in this Chamber. They make the sound that they no longer accept it, but that they often feel compelled to do so, because they still have relatives in Eritrea, or because intimidation practices continue in the Netherlands. Like my colleagues, I am asking for a comprehensive study of the role of the consulate and the organisations in Eritrea and of the traces of money. If I sum it up correctly, we will go from 8 million diaspora to 30 million diaspora in a very short time. That is a very substantial amount of money that directly supports the Eritrean regime. All kinds of other questions have already been asked in detail, including questions about the azc's. I would like to stress one more point, namely the integration of the Eritrean Dutch into the Netherlands. They form a separate group because of their origin and culture. This requires a different approach to make everyone feel welcome in the Netherlands and integrate in a nice and pleasant way. It has been said that we need to investigate how we are going to shape this, but in my view there is a particular need for tailor-made and rapid action, taking more account of the fact that people who have been raised for twenty years in a regime that is oppressed do not so easily put their heads above the ground. It will not be as easy for them as perhaps Syrian refugees to stand up for themselves. I think the customization helps with that. I am pleased that we are now having this debate on Eritrea. At the same time, I realise that Frans Timmermans called in 2012 that it was a disgrace and that it was said in 2014 that an investigation should be carried out. We are now in 2016. The signals have become stronger and the community is moving, but we are not yet a step further towards a solution. I hope that we will be able to take the first important steps with the help of the cabinet today. We are here in the Netherlands and do not live under the long arm of Eritrea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u20	Let me get this straight. It is indeed a great shame that the European Commission, which is part of the Netherlands, is providing 200 million in aid through the Eritrean regime. Does Mrs. Kuik share the view that this should stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u21	Yeah, I'm questioning that. I want to take a final position on this after the cabinet has spoken. I understand that sometimes you have to work with regimes that are not always pleasant, but I do not think that the path chosen by the European Commission is the right one. For example, the suggestion made by the D66 colleague seems to me to be a better step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u22	Excuse me? Collaboration with a total dictatorship, on which another report has been published today, which talks about torture practices, disappearances and the shooting off of people at the border? Why? If we say here at the same time that we are not working with such a regime and are going to help the victims through, for example, the UNHCR, how seriously can Europe and the Netherlands take themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u23	It is just as good to confirm that: no, I am not in favour of cooperation with a dictatorship. That's why I asked my questions. I do not believe that the path now chosen is right, also because it is contrary to the UN report. At the same time, I sometimes realize that we are also giving emergency aid to countries with which we are not always entirely happy. That's the only nuance I wanted to put in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u24	Finally, in the first term of the Chamber, Mr De Roon of the PVV Group will have the floor. The cabinet has indicated that it can reply immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u25	Mr. Chairman. Eritrea has been a dictatorship of the worst kind for decades, including persecution of Christians and including slavery. In name Eritrea is socialist, but in reality it is a great kleptocracy. The reign of terror has also economically ruined the country. It is not excessive to say that Eritrea is the North Korea of Africa. Many Eritreans want to flee the country, but once in the safe Netherlands they are not left alone by the Eritrean government. Moreover, they should not be here at all. This is the result of worthless policies by the EU and the Netherlands, but they are there. For years, there have been indications that Eritrean inhabitants of our country are being manipulated and blackmailed by the embassy. This appears to be the case, among other things, with the diaspora tax. The Minister states in a letter that the levy is not punishable in itself, only if it is carried out under coercion or intimidation. This, of course, puts the horse behind the cart again, because you have to ask the people to report it. Well, they don't, because they're scared. And so nothing happens. So that's not the way. The way is to make the lifting of that diaspora tax criminal. Why doesn't the government do that? With these extortion funds, the Eritrean government finances, among other things, Al-Shabaab in Somalia. The Dutch government is just making all this happen. There are also indications that Eritrean interpreters working at the IND are playing under the umbrella of the Eritrean Embassy. The Minister indicated that the code of conduct for interpreters had been amended and that research had been carried out in a number of cases. But I haven't seen or heard any results of that. I wonder if anything can be said about that now. If that is not the case, then I say again that all this is pointless. Just clean up the mess. In the letter to the Chamber, the Minister indicated that he was cautious about the limited opening of dialogue. What the hell does that mean? I would like an explanation of that. There is no evidence that the government is prepared to investigate and take action against the diaspora tax and intimidation. Eritrea must be made clear once and for all that such practices are not and are not tolerated in the Netherlands. What the government is doing is endlessly wanting to engage in dialogue in the hope that the regime will eventually change something. That's an illusion. Why does the Netherlands have diplomatic ties with Eritrea? What good is that gonna do us? What good is that country to us? What do we have to gain from that chaotic country? By maintaining these ties, we give egard to that reign of terror and maintain the long arm of it in the Netherlands. I think that that long arm should just be cut off and that we should break those ties. Insofar as it appears that there are non-diplomatic minions of the regime in our country, they must be tracked down and addressed. If they have committed offences, they must be punished and then expelled. If there is no evidence of criminal offences, then those supporters, those accomplices of that regime, must also be expelled from our country. Finally. For development aid to Eritrea, I have only one word left: it is insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u26	Madam President. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their initial contribution. In the division of labour we agreed on this evening, I am focusing on the situation in Eritrea itself. I will also comment on the report of the Commission of Inquiry. I will then make a number of comments on the European Union's financial support to Eritrea and on the embassy. Of course, this response must be seen in conjunction with the answers given by my colleagues. Let me say a few words about the situation in Eritrea itself. Let me begin by saying that I share the great concerns about the situation in Eritrea with all the spokesmen. It is not the first time that the government has brought this forward. When I was Minister for Development Cooperation in 2009, I stopped development cooperation with Eritrea myself. We then tried to put pressure on the Eritrean regime in many areas. There was also a conversation with President Afewerki, who is still there. The Dutch Government decided at that time to maintain diplomatic relations, because diplomatic relations are often needed with regimes that are not very happy, to put a clear line in Dutch development cooperation and to make it clear that we had major problems with the functioning of the regime. Let me go back to the long history that the Netherlands has with regard to the aforementioned conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. We supported a peace operation there in 2001-2002, which was incredibly important, because hundreds of thousands of people were killed in that conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. I would like to mention this because Mrs Voortman and others have asked us to do something about this border conflict. It is right that the failure to resolve that border conflict has led to the further isolation of the regime in Eritrea. In Asmara this is used, and also abused, for the autocratic tendencies and totalitarian nature of the regime in Eritrea. I would point out that there was arbitration from the Court in The Hague and that Eritrea was right at the time. The big problem was that the international community did not act like one at the time. This has also led to the great isolation of Eritrea, both on the African continent and in the rest of the world. It is important to say this, to clarify the history of the situation in Eritrea. I share the concerns of the Chamber about the nature of the regime. We are faced with an extremely harsh report on the situation in Eritrea. Dutch relations with that country have more or less ceased, in particular when it comes to development cooperation. I would also point out to the Chamber that the policy of isolation has not produced much for human rights and for the reduction of refugee flows. I am not saying that commitment is the right solution, but it is important to keep an eye on it. What is the most effective way to see exactly what happens when a regime digs in, becomes increasingly isolated and oppresses people more and more? I think it is important to say this, because whoever wrote this report on the violation of human rights, who even talks about crimes against humanity, and that is not small, also calls for dialogue and cooperation with Eritrea. I would like to report this because the report was rightly mentioned by all the spokesmen. The conclusion of those who wrote that report is that the situation is so serious that isolation alone does not work either. It is not about who is morally right, but above all about the effectiveness of what we can achieve with Eritrea. It will be clear that this does not mean a broad commitment, with large financial flows, and pretend that nothing is going on. I would point out, however, that in this very serious report on Eritrea, the chairman of the committee has also said: try to keep these channels open and not completely isolate the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u27	No, no isolation. Indeed, the report says that you should focus on improving the legal position, the apparatus and human rights. It does not say that you have to implement all kinds of projects such as energy renewal projects or think that development aid can improve the human rights situation. It says that things have to be done in full. However, this is what is happening now through the EU. In other words, the regime is going to continue, the European Commission is going to pay 200 million and we are not seeing any improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u28	Maybe I can come back to the issue of development cooperation. I was just quoting the chairman of the UN Committee of Inquiry. He said: do not isolate the country; do not just stand at a distance waiting for a number of very radical Gulf states to tighten up relations with that country, which could exacerbate the situation even further. Let me come back to the issue of the European Union. I wasn't ready for that yet, but I'd like to discuss it with Mrs Karabulut. In any case, we agree on the seriousness of the report. I will come back to the reference to the International Criminal Court. Let us be clear about this, because I would like to agree with Mrs Karabulut. Eritrea has committed crimes against humanity. That's confirmed in that report. I merely noted that the President said that the conclusion should not be that the dialogue with Eritrea should be completely closed. Then you ask: what do you actually do? That is Mrs Karabulut's question. She rightly criticises the European Union's policy. The Netherlands agrees. The Netherlands was therefore an opponent of making this 200 million available. I've resisted that, too. In particular, I refer to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. By far the majority of countries did not. That was not because they had great economic interests there, because they are virtually zero, but because they had the impression that in a number of areas through local authorities and, for example, through international organisations, opportunities could be created to improve the perspective of a number of people. The Netherlands does not think so. I was in a debate before about the situation in Venezuela. In that debate, I was asked to ensure that humanitarian aid is being dealt with in that difficult regime and that there are opportunities for helping a number of people. The Dutch Government and Parliament will soon agree on this. We were not in favour of the 200 million programme. However, that has now been approved. That doesn't mean we're suddenly out of control. The House is right to ask how this can still be done in a country that is so totalitarian. However, it has been decided and I cannot reverse that decision. That's how it works. A vast majority of Member States felt that this was a better way of creating a perspective for the people there. Could you not try to do the most through a number of UN organisations, for example in cases where poverty is increasing dramatically? By the way, in spite of the regime, Eritrea is making progress in a number of areas of sustainable development goals. Shouldn't you be very critical about that? That's all I can promise the Chamber. That is the position in which the Netherlands is now in. In the committees which discuss the projects, we can approve or reject them. We will do this very critically to ensure that the money does not go to the regime. However, the decision was taken by the EDF Committee on 17 November. I was very critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u29	I've allowed you to answer for so long because it fits in with a lot of questions. Mrs Karabulut has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u30	That is true, but we make daily decisions and then the world goes crazy. There's a new report now. In 2009, for example, the journalist Dawit Isaak was tried to get free through help. He's still stuck. There is therefore every reason to discuss this again and, given the 200 million, to raise it with UNHCR through the European Commission. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u31	Here's what I'm prepared to do. That decision will not be reversed. This was simply decided by the European Union and there was a great awareness of the poor human rights situation there. It is important to support the local population in a number of areas, such as health care, education and related issues. The Netherlands will support this when it comes to international organisations. You yourself mentioned the UNHCR, but it could also be other organisations. The international political reality is that this has now been approved. I think it would be wise to choose the second best solution and to be as critical of these projects as possible. However, I do not think it is entirely impossible to improve the situation in any case on a number of issues that are important to the population. I just mentioned some of them. I would like to say that there is no illusion in my mind that the problem of the totalitarian regime there could be reduced by money. Hence the opposition of the Netherlands to this subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u32	It's very simple: the 200 million is, of course, really crazy for words. The Minister says that the Netherlands was against it. I hope that is really the case. The letter sent by the Minister himself to the Chamber states that this 200 million has been decided unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u33	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u34	Maybe the Minister can explain how that turned out and why it says "unanimous"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u35	That was the only way not to run it through the government. Otherwise, we would have lost everything. Now we still have a method through which these projects can be screened by the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u36	I don't understand. We really have reservations of principle. Let me say first of all that this applies to my party, but after the first term of the Chamber it seems to me to apply to all parties. And those objections have been expressed not only in this debate, but also in all previous debates, and also against your colleague, Mr Dijkhoff. In that case, the question arises as to why the Netherlands finally agreed to this package. That's what happened, because it says "unanimous."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u37	I've just brought up the trade-off. We couldn't stop it anymore. Since it will be a blocking majority, we can now ensure that these projects do not lead to direct support for Eritrea's government. That's what you want. The approval of the projects must then be clearly linked to the progress of the human rights situation. Since Mr Sjoerdsma asked me something like this earlier in the other debate on Venezuela, I would like to add the following. In international traffic, you have to look at how to operate as effectively as possible. In this case, we wanted to ensure that the money did not go to the regime. There is therefore no budget support; we have all been able to stop this. I think that's really preferable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u38	In any case, I am pleased to hear from the Minister himself that the government was not, in principle, content with this transfer, but that the process has gone that way. So we're about to be monitored. I'm very curious about that. I really do not believe that these resources will end up with those people; there will be a lot of sticking to the government there. But what will it be like in the future? I heard the minister say that the government is digging in there a little bit. If that government remains intact, will the Dutch Government's position in the future be that no additional resources should go there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u39	Yes. So I'm not going to. I was just talking about the decision-making of the programmes financed by the trust fund. That's for the whole region. The Netherlands has an important voice in its implementation committees. So we can influence these projects. There are also certain majorities and so on. I do not think there is any difference of opinion with the Chamber on this point. Indeed, authoritarian regimes have a huge risk of financing development. I have already indicated why the Dutch Government has acted in this way. I should now like to make every effort to achieve in these projects what is still possible within the limits of the functioning of international organisations, such as the UN organisations. The SP Group has already pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u40	In conclusion, I welcome this reply from the Minister. So there is actually a commitment that the Dutch Government is not prepared to send extra money to that country as long as that regime is put there, it is digging in and there are terrible violations of human rights taking place. I have one more question on monitoring those projects. Could the Minister explain a little more about when the border for the Netherlands was reached? When are things really going the wrong way and we're gonna stop giving more tranches within that 200 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u41	That's a very reasonable request. I'd be happy to involve the Chamber in that. It is difficult for me to do this in advance according to the regulations, but I am prepared to inform the Chamber about the Dutch position. I will strive as much as possible to do so before decision-making. In order to reassure the Chamber, I would like to point out the following. Everyone's critical about this. Of course, we're not alone in that. It is a consideration that has been made in the light of the dramatic situation of the people there. There is no European country that says: we are going to finance the Eritrean regime. That is totally out of the question. There are also no economic interests of any order. For these reasons, for example, no projects have yet been approved and the programme has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr President, may I make this interruption in three, very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u43	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u44	I was triggered by the Minister's reaction. He says that no country in Europe wants to finance that regime. But I find it special to note that there are results. In the end, there is unanimity, so I find that strange anyway. However, results are reached with the Eritrean regime. Well, with all due respect, that's actually a farce. In the past, results agreements have also been reached that have not been complied with. One of the results that is now being made is not to shoot at the border. We all know that this is not being respected. Does Europe really mean that? Are we not kidding ourselves when we make results agreements with such a regime as is currently in power in Eritrea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u45	I do not know if Mr Azmani is talking to me, but I think we agree on this, on the understanding that there is no obligation to achieve results with the Eritrean government. They're just trying not to let this go to the Eritrean government. Efforts are being made to ensure that work is carried out through international organisations. I do not want to say that the risk is zero, but that is quite different from an obligation to achieve results with an authoritarian regime. Of course, we are not naive, not even the other countries in Europe. This choice, I think, has also been made from the frustration of a lot of European countries that the existing policy of isolation is not working at all. It leads to large migratory flows and makes it worse for the people there. So it has been considered whether it could be through a number of projects that create perspective for the people on the ground. This could also create a dynamic in politics. So there is no feeling that we are somehow going to finance a dictatorial regime. That's not the point. I really did not see that with colleagues in Europe. However, the Netherlands is different in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u46	The Netherlands is in a different way when it comes to these funds. However, the Netherlands has agreed, because it is a unanimous decision. Next, it is said that we are going to look at what we are doing if these results are not met. What's that supposed to mean? I want to know what happens to this money now. If we're sure it's not coming to the regime, where is it going? Can the Minister say a little more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u47	Maybe I should go back to Mrs. Voortman's premise first. Firstly, the Netherlands did not agree. The Netherlands has not stopped it, for the reasons I have just mentioned. We want to avoid at all times that this would become a form of financing or budget support in the hands of the Eritrean government. That's now confirmed in black and white. That is important in itself. They are therefore not half-measures, but an adequate balance. Secondly, it is not a question of performance obligations with the Eritrean government. Thirdly, there is the possibility of a blocking minority in the committee on this subject, which has not yet approved any of the projects. That means that the Netherlands now has that opportunity. So that gives us an additional instrument to influence precisely that funding. In any case, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation assumes that this cannot be aid through the government. It can't be budget support. It must be aid that directly benefits the population, as we do in other countries with authoritarian regimes through international organisations. This has just been mentioned by the SP Group. Those are the directions we're talking about. The issue of energy supply is now being discussed. I haven't seen a project program yet. I have just said that because of the critical attitude of the Chamber, which I share, I would like to involve it wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u48	It is therefore still unclear who the money is to be provided to, all of which still has to be looked at, but it is then decided not to stop at least making the money available. I think that is a very strange way of making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u49	Maybe I can tell you one more time why that happened. Because of the lack of success of the policy of isolation and the great risks for the people in development, it has actually been said by most colleagues that we should at least consider whether we could work on projects that could directly benefit the population. That is a very real point. The Chamber has sometimes asked me to do so in other debates. Can you not get around a government, especially when it comes to development cooperation and ensuring that the money ends up with people themselves? We are sceptical about this. So we did not have the opportunity to influence that differently than to say precisely that we want these funds to come into the hands of the Eritrean government, that budget support cannot be discussed, that there must be confirmation of this and that the Netherlands can also organise a blocking minority to be against projects. I think that's the right balance. The result would have been otherwise that you simply have risks of budget support to a government that we do not like. I therefore share the view of the Chamber. There is hardly any difference in content when it comes to doing what is possible. I will continue my speech. I'm almost done. I have said that I also have great respect for the work done by the committee, with the conclusions I have just mentioned: not total isolation but a very serious situation with regard to the UN Human Rights Council and crimes against humanity. These conclusions are now being discussed in the Human Rights Council. We will also look at what we do with it. I have not yet decided whether or not it should be referred to the UN. A number of considerations play a role in this. There is also the risk of a referral leading to a subsequent veto by one of the Security Council members. Then we are even further away from home, because then the Eritrean regime will only benefit. Nevertheless, I do not consider that to be out of the question either. I will, of course, keep the Chamber informed about the treatment in the Human Rights Council. So we also share the great criticism of the Eritrean regime. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Then I was asked whether I would be prepared to raise the whole point of the long arm as well. My colleagues are particularly concerned about this. I do not want to say much about this at the moment. I just want to say that, in the Netherlands, the situation we described in the letter is such that I agree with your permission to raise this again with Eritrea's temporary agent here. So I'm willing to do that. I'll do the same. I would point out, however, that this has happened before and at least has not had sufficient results. I'll just say that I'm against ending diplomatic relations. That's not a good thing. In general, I do not do that when it is difficult with a regime. It is precisely then that it is important to have diplomatic relations, even if they are at a low level. It is also a method of conveying the criticism you have. Despite all the signals we have, I don't have any criminal evidence at the moment. This will also be the subject of discussion by colleagues. So that also means I can't tell anyone. I am prepared, even at your request, to speak to the temporary agent on this matter again as a matter of urgency. This brings me to the end of the answer to questions from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u50	On that last point, do I understand that there is an investigation into whether there is or could be criminal offences in relation to the embassy? I also asked about the European research project on the disporataks, which was promised in 2014. How's that going? Will we have that next year, or perhaps in 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u51	For the answer to the first question, please refer to my colleagues. They will deal with any criminal or other investigations. I am happy to answer the question about diaspora and European cooperation in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u52	At the beginning of his speech, the Minister briefly referred to the border dispute. There would have been arbitration. I think that was already in the letter he wrote to us. But it's not solved. This is an important breeding ground for the regime. I was wondering if the Minister would see any possibility of considering, within the UN framework, whether something could be done about it. I believe that this is an important breeding ground and also the main cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u53	I do not know if it is the main cause, but it is one of the reasons why the Eritrean regime is strongly opposed to the rest of Africa and a large number of European countries, and so it has actually dug itself in. As you know, there was a border dispute at the time about a very small town between Ethiopia and Eritrea, Badme. There's been a terrible war over that. We have to make sure that we don't ever start another war like this again. There have also been Dutch peacekeeping operations. Luckily, things were settled at that time. There are no UN blue helmets anymore, but there was a ruling from the Court in The Hague, in which Eritrea was actually right. It is therefore wrong that there has been insufficient follow-up. For this reason, the Dutch Government considers it important to remain in contact with Eritrea to see how this frustration could be removed. We find many countries on our way. A country like Ethiopia is very different in this respect, and so is a large number of African countries, especially the majority of the African Union countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u54	What does that mean right now? What can the Cabinet do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u55	I will give you an honest answer: little or nothing. We've been pulling it for a long time. I raised it myself as a Minister for Development Cooperation once. I find it unsatisfactory and I would like to try it again, but I would point out that, for example, in the African Union, but also in the UN Security Council and in Europe, it is not thought that you should make a gesture against Eritrea at the moment, when I think it is an international judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u56	There is one outstanding question, which I believe can be answered in the first period. That question was a bit related to the diasporataks. A former Eritrean minister had said that this tax was used by Eritrea to finance Al-Shabaab. That brought me back to the question of why Al-Shabaab is not on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u57	I have to come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr. Chairman. Mr Azmani asked if the IND would pay attention during the hearing to sympathy towards the regime. Hearing is part of the procedure and, of course, intended to determine whether or not the person concerned is actually entitled to asylum. The position of the foreigner in his country of origin and in relation to the regime that causes people to flee plays an important role in this. Any sympathy may be requested if it is justified by the reason for the asylum or other information provided by the alien or otherwise entered the IND. That is, in fact, taken into account. Mr Azmani also asked for an obligation to report to Eritreans who are under pressure from the regime. I agree with Mr Azmani and I share his wish that they should report this. If people under pressure don't report that to us, then we can't do anything with it either. A duty, of course, sounds like "at least you know," but I fear that it would also create side effects. Someone's already under pressure. If that person is afraid to report it, even if there is a duty, then that person was already a victim and is now under pressure again, which can have consequences for that person. Furthermore, we do not have any other reporting obligations in our society. I am trying to get those signals out and make declarations, but a notification requirement seems to me to be a step too rigorous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u59	I hear the Secretary of State. Let me be clear that I am trying to find tools to make more known that people under duress pay that 2% tax. Now it's stuck under the surface very much. People don't dare press charges. I understand that, too, if there is coercion and pressure and if there are family members in Eritrea. I am trying in another way for us, for the Cabinet and for the Chamber, to understand how big this phenomenon is and how big this problem is. That is why my proposal was to at least have those people report it. That's less heavy than reporting to the police. If it is reported that under pressure you pay that 2% tax, the scale of the problem becomes more insightful for us. If you ask for protection from the Dutch government, the Dutch government, and suffer from a regime that you have to fear, I honestly think it is also your duty to report it, because otherwise the Netherlands will not be able to offer these people the optimal protection either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u60	I can go along with this reasoning, but then the question is how do you encourage or tempt people who come from a regime in which the government is not directly a reliable partner and works with all kinds of coercive measures, resulting in oppression, or incriminate them to report or report. Apart from the fact that I don't know how to maintain a reporting obligation, I also think that such a duty is just the wrong tone. I do agree with Mr Azmani that as soon as they receive these signals, people at the COA should encourage people to make the most of their claims. That can be anonymously, under number, or one can report it via Report Crime Anonymous. Then it's not a report, but it's reported, completely anonymous. I agree that these channels should be brought to our attention so that we can get those signals and know about them. Then we can act on that. When people see that we are doing the same thing, I think there is growing confidence to come out more, to let them know more or even to press charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u61	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning, but you want to break the system whereby people in this country are held captive by a regime they fear. Well, at least it's desirable that there's some kind of contact. I'm not sure exactly how that should be organized by the government. In case of a police report, we immediately know who's going to report it. It may also be that these notifications remain confidential, but then there is contact and there can be help. Maybe eventually people can be encouraged to report it. This will not be possible in all cases, but perhaps a number of people can be reached. The government must have a dialogue with these people in order to make a declaration. Because that's always the bottleneck. This is always apparent from the answer given to Parliament's questions, even from years ago. I'm trying to find out if the Secretary of State wants to think more in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u62	I would ask Members to put it in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'm willing to think along, but a reporting obligation goes a long way. At Meld Crime Anonymous there can be a language barrier that cannot be immediately broken. Even when people are still in an asylum-seekers' centre, they are encouraged to report it. If no report is made, the collective agreement itself will give the signal. That is a step less far, but we have made a broader commitment to this in the past year. There are possibilities to report something anonymous. One can leave it at that or move on to a declaration. I think this is the way after all. We must encourage this and lower the threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u64	Let me compare it with the radicalisation approach. This often involves soft signals. There is not always a question of crossing the borders of crime, but something is fundamentally wrong. In this case, this concerns a community. I would like to look at the treatment experienced by the Eritrean Dutch. That treatment is disruptive because people are not able to integrate properly. Can the Secretary of State respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u65	I agree that it is better for us to know. We need to have a report, otherwise we can't act. The D.A. and the police can't do anything without a report. Let us not pretend that nothing is reported. The past year has been acting in cases where it was not immediately clear what was going on. COA, Nidos and D.A. have taken immediate action and an investigation has been initiated. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. If you are part of Dutch society, you should also report it if something is not right, even if it is someone who comes from the same country from which you fled. Our standards and values apply. You should also report this if it's someone with the same background as yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u66	I understand that, but I don't feel the urgency with the cabinet to go for soft signals. There's a lot going on on Facebook and at parties. There are payments that also involve black money. You can also look at the problem in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u67	The three of us are here on behalf of the cabinet, and I'm not the last one to answer. Part of this lies with the Minister of SZW. I can only say something about the judicial part. Then you must have more than a soft signal. You either need a targeted method to harden soft signals or to focus on a bundling of signals. You can't just intervene after a post. I just mentioned an example where COA and Nidos immediately acted and called in the DA. In reply to questions from Mrs Voortman, I also refer to the IND. The IND has also conducted investigations on the basis of these kinds of signals, which also have consequences. After the occasional investigations on the basis of soft signals, it has been decided to examine the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u69	I'm coming up on another soft signal. Mr Azmani asked me if I was familiar with this, and there are often signs on social media that someone with refugee status is going on vacation to the country of which he himself claims to be no longer safe. I got those signals, too, and that didn't cheer me up. I have spoken with colleagues about it in other countries where Eritrean refugees are being received in order to find out together what exactly is going on so that we can act accordingly. We are working with various countries and with various parties, such as the IND and the KMar, to first assess the scale on which it is taking place and then to take action to find out what is going on. If a person is able to return safely to Eritrea, there is no reason to grant a residence permit because it cannot be safe in Eritrea. Mrs Voortman asked a question about the interpreters. In four cases, there has been a manifestation of involvement. I have to be careful, because I have no proof that they have done anything wrong in their actions. However, we think that the appearance is enough to stop hiring someone. These interpreters are no longer deployed by the IND. There are 10 more investigations that are almost complete. I'll certainly inform the Chamber about the outcome when they're finished. Mrs Voortman also asked about the screening of volunteers at the COA. In principle, we use the explanation of behavior for that. This is a first filter. If we receive signals from outside, they may be a reason for further investigation. If Mrs Voortman has received such a signal, I would also like to receive it, so that we can look into the situation and take action if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u70	The Secretary of State is right to say that a statement on behaviour cannot be the only one. What else does a screening of COA volunteers consist of? What measures are being taken when a volunteer turns out to be associated with the Eritrean regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u71	"Being connected" is of course a broad concept, but let us take the interpreters as the starting point. If you think that, even in appearance, an unpleasant and undesirable situation arises, it is not appropriate for the person concerned to be used as a volunteer. "Screening" sounds heavy, but of course it's about the vog and the conversation people have with each other when someone says they want to do something. In addition, many volunteers are also active in asylum seekers' centres that have not been deployed through the COA. RefugeesWork also has many volunteers who are helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u72	That's after. I read the letter and it says that a screening of COA volunteers will also take place in advance. The Secretary of State states that it is difficult to indicate "related" concretely. The YPFDJ is the youth organisation of the only political party permitted in Eritrea. You do not want someone who is active within such an organisation as a volunteer at the COA, nor an interpreter at the IND. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u73	Something like that doesn't come out of the vog screening. You're gonna have to deal with that in a different way. If that signal is there, I'd be happy to get a look at it as soon as possible. If we have the idea that it is not occasional, but that there are specific things going on, then we must act on it. I can also imagine that someone who has fled Eritrea and has a status would very much like to return as a volunteer and work with new refugees in a positive way. I don't want to put a whole bone axe in there right away. Mr De Roon asked about criminalising the diasporataks. If there is voluntary payment then that is a choice we can think of, but there is no reason to criminalize it. If people are put under pressure for undue payment, pressure can be punishable under circumstances. So I think we already have a provision for that. The time Knops and Mrs. Karabulut asked about the police and prosecutor's office side. Mr Knops asked for figures. We don't record ethnicity in the systems. I've talked to the Chamber about that a lot. If we did, we could have a registration of a case of two people who have been put on the fist with each other, both of whom have an Eritrean background, for something that could happen between us. Even if we didn't go on the fist, of course. Then you'd have two incidents, so that doesn't mean much. The D.A.'s gonna decide if it's gonna start a criminal investigation. I can't say anything about ongoing investigations. I have just referred to an example of this: I have already shared it with the Chamber, in which there were soft signals and not waiting for the prosecution to investigate, but Nidos and the COA themselves have taken measures and have also asked the Public Prosecutor to investigate what the prosecutor did at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mrs Karabulut with a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u75	I hadn't even started, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u76	That's the wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u77	Always. I would like to come back to the previous point. The inning of the diasporataks goes very secretly, of course. They don't say, "I'm gonna intimidate you, give me that money." It goes through parties. That's about whether you're loyal or not. If you hand it off, you'll get services from the embassy, or your family might get in trouble. That's the way it works. Have anyone been identified who is an accomplice of the regime and who collects those funds and, if so, has any steps been taken from the authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u78	This would then fall within the scope of the OM investigations which are being carried out or which are not being carried out. Apart from the question of whether I can say anything about it, I just don't know at the moment. I don't think all these investigations are shared with the Minister, let alone with me. I cannot give Mrs Karabulut any assurance on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u79	It's a little tricky, isn't it? There are parties. We've had that on hand a number of times. We then get signals that another party is being organized where the regime's accomplices are present to drain money. People report this happening. Then there's often, like my experience, some kind of procedural embarrassment with the local authorities and perhaps with the D.A. and the police. Is there some kind of method to agree on, or can the cabinet draw up a hand-out, so that at least there is an act when those signals are there? If there are signals that stop in the vicinity of azc's cars and then collect money, then act immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u80	It's easier to say something about the latter, because that's about the COA. In another context, I have already said that COA people may see something that they think is wrong. That's what we trained COA personnel on. We have also done so even though that is an incomparable framework around recruitment. Of course, there are parallels in that. If they signal something, for example, that someone is depressed when they have participated in an activity, or think something is wrong, they must indeed pass it on. In the example I have referred to a few times, it has also happened. There were signals and the COA thought: I can't write a report with evidence, but this just doesn't add up, so let's act and report it to the D.A. There has been talk of legal embarrassment that could possibly be in the police and the prosecutor's office. I'd like to point out that there shouldn't be one. The prosecution must decide whether the investigation and prosecution is appropriate and the police and the local triangle must simply consider it. There is no reason from the cabinet why they should consider not doing so. On the question of whether we should make a hand-out, I really need to talk to Minister Van der Steur. I can't see if that would work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u81	I'd be delighted if the Secretary of State could undertake that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yeah, I'll run into him somewhere, so I'll talk to him about it. Mr Knops also asked whether it is possible to withdraw the licence of an Eritrean who is a licence holder, but from whom we find that he is loyal to the regime while claiming that he had to flee that regime. It is therefore a matter of the regime that is also responsible for the fact that so many people really have to flee. Of course, the essence of our policy is that we are trying to distinguish these groups as much as possible. We are, of course, trying to ensure that we do not reward the people who contribute to the fact that others really have to flee with a permit status. That's possible. Now, of course, an adhesion statement or a like on Facebook is not enough. However, if it builds up, it is certainly a possibility for the IND to withdraw a permit on that basis. I told you before, if anyone goes back to that country, it could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. Rightful concerns, legitimate questions. I shall begin with Mr Azmani's contribution. He says it is very important that the Eritreans who come to our country actually integrate. They're subject to integration. They're gonna have to sign a participation statement. They must therefore also choose the Dutch standards and values. In addition, there are, of course, the generic provisions that should contribute to this. The new group is of course subject to a number of additional measures. There is more money for social support and the declarations of participation have been added. What do I think of these high welfare rates? Of course, they're wrong. Eventually, you want people who live here to stand on their own two feet. These people are supposed to go to work and be able to make a contribution, rather than remain in the assistance. One of the things that we are now trying to do with the Task Force Work and Integration is to ensure that we get there much earlier, and that there is matching and screening. People should also be pushed earlier towards appropriate training or work if necessary. It is also a question of ensuring that people start participating immediately. It used to be all put together in a row. First one had to learn the language, then a house had to be provided, et cetera. Now we say, start with that right now. It's also being investigated. There's been a cohort investigation since January. It looks at how these groups are doing and whether we are doing better than we have done in the past. However, some realism is needed here, because these people are generally not exactly the most promising. We have to take that into account. So there is still an obligation to make sure that we do better than in the past, but I do not expect it to come close to how this would go with the ordinary Dutch groups. We need to be realistic about that. What do I think about working black as well? Of course, that's wrong. Even if that happens because people have another reason, there is no excuse for it. So if there are signals, there will be action. This lies first and foremost with the municipalities. They have a responsibility for this and they will maintain it seriously. I think that's right. We cannot justify undeclared work within the welfare system because people do so because of their oppression. This would lead to a blurring of the standards applicable to assistance. What has to be done then is to press charges, prosecute, search and what more they are. Now I understand very well that people are taking personal risks and so I also understand the objections they feel about making such a report. However, the answer cannot be that we no longer apply the legal provisions that apply to everyone here for this group. Those provisions apply to everyone, wherever you come from. Can I rule out subsidies going to organisations that actually contribute to supporting the regime or stopping the integration of Eritreans? Yes, I can rule that out for the government. Of course, I do not have a perfect list of all the subsidies that municipalities provide. I would be surprised if there were municipal subsidies for this, but I am prepared to discuss this issue with the VNG. I cannot, of course, enforce matters here. The room knows that, too. Municipalities can choose independently. But precisely in the light of the concerns expressed in this debate, I am prepared to discuss this with the UNG. Mr President, I see Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u84	That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u85	Maybe it's not always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u86	No, that's always nice, especially if we haven't heard...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u87	At least the other way around, Mr. President. The question of whether or not that organisation receives a subsidy is a different question, namely: does the Minister have any insight into what networks there are, what organisations there are, what accomplices the regime has here in the Netherlands? In short, what does this long arm look like in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u88	I thank Mrs Karabulut for this question. It's not only good to see her, it's good to hear her. That's a perfect little bridge to the research section. The answer is: no, we have a very limited view of this. Where criminal offences are concerned, the previous speaker, the Secretary of State of V and J, has indicated how limited the signals we have. I indicated in the letter that we are building up knowledge for a reason, including through the Social Stability Expertise Unit. We want to have more visibility and also more control over this phenomenon. I was actually about to comment on the suggestion made by several Members of Parliament to investigate this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u89	Can you do that very quickly? When can we get that? It's crucial. The Minister needs to know that this is not the first time we have talked about this. He's heard how complex it is. It's not comparable to other communities. It's completely segregated. We are dealing with a total dictatorial regime. This is an important task, especially for the Minister of Integration. Can we do this fast? Can we get a plan from the minister? I think he made it very easy about the welfare rates, like "we do a little here and a little there, and a task force." It requires specific effort to solve those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u90	Not only me, but also Mr Koenders and Mr Dijkhoff have indeed expressed great concern about the regime and its impact on people who have fled to the Netherlands. I am very pleased that Mrs Karabulut indicates that it is very complex. I think we all recognize that, too. It's precisely because people are under pressure that we know that you don't see a lot of declarations and few people step forward. That doesn't make it any less important, but the more perilous it is to try to figure out what's going on. We have to try, no misunderstanding about that. I mentioned the Social Stability Expertise Unit. This is in line with Mrs Kuik's question to Mr Dijkhoff whether we are also applying elements that we have developed, precisely in the fight against radicalisation. The answer is yes. These elements are on the repressive side and also on the preventive side in the fight against radicalisation. One of the things that we think is important is trying to get into the networks, having key figures, knowing what's going on in a community, no matter how difficult that may be. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut: this is a very closed community. People often, with reason, are very suspicious of each other and of the government. Nevertheless, we are trying to get a better grip on it. In short, like the Chamber, I find the improper pressure on Eritreans completely unacceptable. Like the Chamber, I am looking for the right tools to do something about it, instruments that the Eritrean community in the Netherlands really needs. These instruments must fit in with the legal possibilities we have. That also includes the complexity of this search. Many instruments can only be used if there is a specific suspicion or a declaration. For example, we have all kinds of criminal procedure-like powers, but they cannot be used if there is no suspicion or declaration. In the absence of a report, the trail is rapidly dead. That is why I fully understand the call from the Chamber for an independent investigation. I am in favour of this. That is the most important thing for now, but I think it is fair to talk about the expectations we may have. They have to do with the complexity. So I'll order the execution...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u91	I see some Members are trying to interrupt. Let the Minister finish the answer. I think that's so convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u92	... of a qualitative research in which Eritreans themselves will be questioned, with the aim of finding out how they experience any pressure and what the machinations and mechanisms behind it are. Other aspects related to the integration of Eritreans are included in the research of the KIS and the cohort study that I mentioned earlier and to which I referred in the letter. Of course, respondents will be questioned about financial matters, the diasporataks, the way in which they are collected and the role of various organisations and bodies. However, as the Chamber knows, I cannot map the financial transactions myself; I do not have the powers to do so. So it is going to be a qualitative study, and we are going to do our utmost to ensure that we get the relevant things up. It will be a very difficult task for the researchers to get the truth out of the table. We know it's hard for outsiders to access the community. Moreover, you have to bear in mind that not everyone will dare to talk, however much we will do to make that possible and to create a safe setting for it. It is precisely because of the seriousness of the problem and what the Court said about it in the first term that I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u93	The Minister gives his answer with a lot of ifs and buts, but this is a network investigation. Is this going to take a very long time, as we know from other studies; do we have experience with this or are we going to make it easier? I'd like to give the Minister one tip. The public gallery is full of people and representatives of organizations who are very willing to cooperate and who have an enormous amount of knowledge. That's a very important entrance. I'm not saying that's the end of the investigation, but these people are an important partner in cooperation. The Minister could use their information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm sure Mrs Karabulut didn't mean that as catty as it seemed to sound. I agree with her that we need to do this quickly and properly. In response to statements from the Chamber, I said that I would like to do so, but we still need to formulate the research questions. I will certainly use the existing networks and people who are willing to talk and help. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut. I want to do it as soon as possible, but carefully. I just promised, and now I have to sit down with my officials to properly formulate the research questions. The Chamber doesn't want an independent investigation for nothing. We're gonna have to shape that up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u95	Then can we set a target date? Perhaps for all kinds of reasons it is not possible to achieve this, but could the Minister seek to ensure that the Court receives the results for the budgetary treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u96	Let me do it this way: it will be for the budget debate, unless I find a different target date more real after the discussion with the officials. I'll let the Chamber know in writing. I didn't get a chance to talk right now. If I come to the conclusion that we need more time to do so, I will report it to the Chamber and otherwise we will keep it as a target date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u97	I understand Mrs Karabulut's impatience very well. Actually, I do. I would like to add that I do not mean that catty. In my opinion, there is already a judicial ruling on the youth association as an extension and, as is also said here, the long arm of PFDJ in the Netherlands. I think we already know that organization. Mrs Voortman spoke in the debate on the Eritrean Association Amsterdam and Environment. You can make a connection between the members of the YPFDJ and the EFTA. The Minister says no when it comes to subsidies from the Empire. About municipal subsidies, he says he doesn't know that. I get that, but we're not gonna wait for that investigation first, and then we're gonna go to the VNG? I know that Amsterdam, for example, grants to the EFTA countries. I looked it up: in 2012 it was still about €18,000 to €19,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u98	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Azmani for his suggestions on how we could organise this efficiently. It's kind of a tricky job, so I just appreciate it. I do not want to place conditionality or order in my commitments. I said I wanted to talk to the VNG about that. I will. Also in municipalities there are of course concerns about how integration is going and whether people feel free in the Netherlands, which is the intention of the cabinet. So I will do that, and I will come back to the Chamber to see how we can shape the investigation. Mr Knops asked if there was sufficient capacity at AIVD and police. Mr Dijkhoff has not yet gone into this, so I shall say something about it. At the time of reporting, we will be able to get to work on this and then there will be sufficient capacity to do so, and priority will be given to this. The problem is that one often does not take that step, probably because of fear of consequences for family who are still in Eritrea or perhaps even for family who are here. It would be very helpful if we were to take that step, because that would give us an opportunity to carry out research. We will certainly do the same. The shoe doesn't wring at insufficient capacity, but at the fear of the Eritreans in the Netherlands because of the ties with family there or because of fear or distrust of Eritreans here. We will have to break through that, but that is not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u99	In the whole debate, you feel the unsatisfactory feeling about not knowing what we don't know. I understand the answers of the rulers that this is a result of the closeness of the community and the fear there is from the country where one comes from. At the same time, these answers are unsatisfactory, because I feel that the cabinet too would like to know what the situation is, so that it can act on them. In my contribution in the first term, I asked whether the cabinet is prepared to have the AIVD carry out an investigation into this. I do not see a member of the government who is directly responsible for this, but the question is whether the cabinet is prepared to do so, because it could help to identify the problem and the seriousness of the matter. After all, we are all in agreement on the fact that this matter must finally be dealt with in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u100	Unfortunately, I have to say no to that, not only because the person concerned is not present at the moment, but also because it is not customary to give public orders to the AIVD, especially if there is no link to a legal authority or task of the AIVD. I assume that Mr Knops has understood correctly that if there are declarations or signals, we will not hesitate to do research. We are talking about the police and the security services, which are appropriate to that end on the basis of the relevant legislation. However, I share Mr Knops' analysis that it is by definition an unsatisfactory debate because you feel that people are not showing the back of their tongues. We do not want this in a country where freedom prevails. In addition to what Mr Koenders and Mr Dijkhoff have said about this, we will have to consider, step by step, how we can proceed by conducting research, mapping the networks and using the Expertise unit. With this Expertise unit we sometimes achieve results, even in closed communities, which we had not previously thought possible. We must try to counter and also become more effective. Finally, Mrs Kuik's question also referred to Mrs Karabulut in her speech whether we should use more specific tailor-made work for this group. This was also reflected in the remark that my response to the Task Force on Work and Integration may have been too easy. I think there is certainly a need for more in this area. In general, people come here with fewer opportunities, because their level of education or literacy is on average less good. Often more is needed to guide these people, also because of their sometimes traumatic experiences and their flight history. That is why I am pleased that we have been able to agree with the municipalities on a higher budget, precisely for that guidance. That budget has almost tripled. This enables the municipalities to deliver more customization. This does not affect the more generic integration policy, which is based on what we want to achieve for everyone who settles here, but the higher budget allows the municipalities to do more tailor-made work for these people, for example through the language course, through additional guidance, or through what else is needed to increase the opportunities for these people. Again, please, let us remain realistic. Because of the extra budget, it is not all good at once, but the need for customisation is also expressed by municipalities and that is now possible under the current conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u101	I thought we would proceed immediately with the second term, but Mr Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u102	I have one last question. The Minister writes in his letter that the integration of Eritreans is lagging behind because of illiteracy. I was sitting in my bench wondering what would be a good solution for combating illiteracy and then I came to language courses. Then I wondered if the Minister would also find language courses for Eritreans an interesting idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u103	I think that Mr Sjoerdsma's insight is almost inexhaustible on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u104	Then I wonder why a motion from my hand that was tabled last year and received a majority in which the government is called upon to give language courses from day one to people in the shelter is not carried out from day one, in fact it is not even carried out. We are talking about a group which has real difficulty in integrating, which we could do something about and which we could help on the way by at least removing illiteracy. The minister's talking about customization, but he doesn't actually do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u105	I understand that question very well. It may be a little bit of a side-step in this debate, which is very much about intimidation of Eritreans, but it certainly has to do with their chance of success in Dutch society. The cabinet has, precisely in the agreements with the municipalities, allocated more money, for example to intensify pre-accession. It is crucial for this group that not only after the status has been granted and one has been allocated to a municipality, intensive language courses are given.In fact, you should not talk about language courses, but also about literacy courses. In addition, the cabinet trains volunteers who can start language and literacy even at the stage before they are told whether they can stay here and whether they get a status. In other words, I understand very well that there is always a difference of opinion as to whether the motion has been properly carried out or whether this could be done more or less, but I have a very strong feeling that I am pulling on the same side of the rope as Mr Sjoerdsma, precisely by investing extra in the pre-integration, which is more intensive in nature, and more hours of language training, more professionals and more NT2-trainers who have been adopted. On top of that, even before it's been established that people are allowed to stay here, we need to train volunteers to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u106	Well, pulling on the same rope? I have the idea that if that is so, I would very much like to see one pull a little bit harder than the other. I would very much like the Minister to honour his earlier commitment, which he now undertakes, that before the recess there would be a letter on the implementation of the motion. That is a standing promise. The Minister is now acting as if it has already been implemented, but he is not. The Minister has admitted that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u107	If Mr Sjoerdsma agrees with me that we are pulling on the same side of the rope, but he feels that he is pulling harder than I am, then I would give him a great deal of credit. Especially if I have made commitments on this, I will keep it. If there's another letter expected at that point, I'll check it out. I must honestly confess that this is the phenomenon of commitment: for a certain moment. Somehow it always works that way. Then "before the summer recess" is really such a dividing line. I'm wrestling through a mountain of letters and promises. I see Mr Sjoerdsma looking disappointed again at the pulling power of the rope, but I am going to do my utmost to do just what I promised him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u108	I would like to start that memory, also because the promise was first March, then April and then May. In the meantime, it's June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u109	You have made your point very clear, Mr Sjoerdsma. I don't think anyone's missed that. We'll continue with the second term. At least I assume, no, I see the spokesmen are ready for that right away. I call Mr Azmani of the VVD Group. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u110	Not two minutes, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u111	No, not two minutes. One minute and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u112	The motions are still being distributed in text, so we can read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna go real fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas everything points out that the Eritrean Embassy plays a pivotal role in taxation for the Eritrean regime;]] [[Whereas there are persistent signs that the Embassy threatens and intimidates Eritreans in the Netherlands if they do not give up 2% of their income on a monthly basis;]] [[calls on the government, the defendant, to call on it to stop this tax and the abuses surrounding it and, as a result, to remain out of the embassy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas holders of asylum status should not be able to be put under pressure here in the Netherlands by the regime for which they fled;]] [[Whereas the fight against crimes such as extortion and threat, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is largely dependent on the reporting and reporting of the victims;]] [[Whereas a person who is loyal to a regime and therefore has no fear of the regime does not (longer) fulfil the condition under which the asylum authorisation was granted;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a reporting obligation on asylum holders for this blackmail by the regime for which they fled and to consider whether infringement of this obligation of notification should have an effect on the right of residence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-109]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yeah, they'll be understood. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 50% of Eritreans in the Netherlands depend on the assistance;]] [[Considers that we do not want to finance the regime in Eritrea indirectly through the 2% tax with our Community money;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to consider how to prevent our Community money being paid to foreign powers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azmani and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u115	Finally, I would like to thank the government for its first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you. You will receive a price for quick reading. I thought I'd give a compliment at this time of night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mr. Chairman. I won't try to do it faster. Thank you to the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the first-term response. First of all, I have a motion on the 200 million for Eritrea, which I do not think needs further clarification. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Eritrea's regime is one of the most repressive in the world;]] [[whereas Eritreans flee for compression rather than for the lack of socio-economic development;]] [[calls on the government, the European Union's plan not to deploy 200 million in Eritrea, but to take care of Eritrean refugees in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u118	Then there's Al-Shabaab and the terrorist list. If it is true that Dutch diaspora money goes to Al-Shabaab, we need to see if we can stop it through terrorist legislation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, Al-Shabaab, to place them on the national and European terrorist list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that, according to a recent report by the UN Human Rights Commission, crimes against humanity take place in Eritrea, including torture, slavery and murder;]] [[Whereas the image of this report is shocking and alarming, and this report shows that no progress has been made in the field of human rights last year;]] [[Considers that it is now up to the UN Security Council to take appropriate measures to stop crimes against humanity in Eritrea;]] [[calls on the Government, within the UN, to call for the report of the UN Human Rights Commission on the situation in Eritrea to be referred to the UN Security Council in order to take action to combat crimes against humanity in Eritrea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Eritrean refugees in the Netherlands should be protected as much as possible from the Eritrean regime and its supporters;]] [[calls on the government, the screening of COA volunteers and people admitted by the COA through organisations in azc's to at least extend research into whether candidates are active for organisations involved in the Eritrean regime, such as the YPFDJ Holland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Eritrean Consulate in The Hague is associated with extortion and intimidation practices;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into the involvement of the Eritrean Consulate in criminal practices in The Hague,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-114]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-115]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u120	I have one more question about the border conflict. The Minister said that he cannot do much about this, but that his colleagues are also aware of the seriousness of the situation. Can he, together with his colleagues, see if there is any possibility of mediation in this context at UN level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u121	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. Mrs. Kuik said it very strikingly in her contribution. In 2012 MP Timmermans was here at the time. In 2014 he made appeals as Minister, with the support of the Chamber. Now we are in 2016, and we all note that the problem is just as big and that not so much has actually happened yet. That is why I think it is right for action to be taken. Several motions have already been tabled for this. Some of them will certainly have our support. I have a motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to a UN investigation committee, Eritrea's dictatorial regime is guilty of crimes against humanity and is also accused of supporting the terrorist organisation Al-Shabaab;]] [[whereas Eritrea's so-called diaspora tax finances this criminal regime and possibly indirectly the terrorist organisation Al-Shabaab;]] [[Whereas Eritrea's collection of diasporataks in the Netherlands and other countries is accompanied by extortion and intimidation;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of prohibiting Eritrea's diaspora tax in the Netherlands and to seek advice from the international advisor;]] [[calls on the Government, at EU level, to press for action against Eritrea's long arm, including the diasporataks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr. Chairman. All madness on a stick, but it is indeed an uncomfortable fact that we have been working on this for years. Fortunately, the Eritrean-Dutch community is farther ahead and forces us to press that government further. I would like to see more action from our government in the coming months. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the network, the representatives and the money flows of the Eritrean regime in the Netherlands to identify and inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to launch a European investigation into the nature and extent of the diaspora tax of the Eritrean regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-118]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u123	We do not agree, but we have said yes. The Foreign Minister's explanation of the 200 million is simply not in my mind. If we don't say no to a regime like this, when will we? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, with the responsible European Commissioner, to call for the contribution to Eritrea to be frozen and made available to UNHCR and/or other NGOs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22831-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u124	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their reply. I have heard a number of important commitments. There will be a broad investigation among the Eritreans themselves, also into their integration. Furthermore, I felt that the concerns were shared. At the same time, I still miss urgency. Mr Knops said the same thing I said in my first term: we are now a few years ahead, so when can we expect concrete steps? And do we hold on to the problem now, so that we prevent the segregation of this group of Eritreans in our society? It is now larger in size, it remains in the Netherlands, but we do want these people to be fully integrated. I hope we can hear a very clear timetable. I also hope that in the second term I will feel a little more urgency and that we will all continue to feel that way. I don't have any motions right now. I have seen some interesting motions come along and I am sure I will be able to support some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u125	Mr. Chairman. All the abuses the government wants to fight through consultations, conversations, investigations and diplomatic blah. It's, in short, daddy and wet. That is not decisive action. The PVV would like that. The diaspora tax should simply be punishable. The Secretary of State said he doesn't see any reason to. I can see that reason. The money goes to a criminal reign of terror, and the government makes itself an accessory to it by not stopping it. That is my first point. The second bold proposal I have is simply to cut off that long arm through Eritrea's diplomats. Break diplomatic ties. The Foreign Minister says that he will no longer be able to tell the capital of Eritrea how sorry we all are. However, he does not have to state that at all. He has to tell the diplomats here to represent a bunch of criminals and get out of here. My third point concerns accomplices of that reign of terror who are not diplomats. If they are guilty of criminal offences, we must prosecute them, punish them and expel them. If they commit conduct that is not punishable but does a service to the regime, they are a threat to public order and they must also leave the country. Finally, I would like to mention the EUR 200 million in development aid from the European Union. All the parties here are against that money going there, and the government doesn't want it either. But the government then votes in favour, because it hopes to avoid something else bad. That actually shows what a crazy palace the European Union is playing with taxpayers' money roulette.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you for this last contribution in the second term from the Chamber. A large number of motions have been tabled, so I can imagine that there should be some discussion. We will continue at 10.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u127	We need the government's second term with a response to the motions tabled and the answer to a single question. We are still waiting for the Foreign Minister, whom I would like to speak first. The Minister's coming in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u128	Mr. Chairman. I would like to give an opinion on a number of motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 911 and wants to give a little clarification. There is now a bit of a suggestion that the Netherlands has been sidelined and wrong decision-making has taken place in the European Union. I was just trying to point out that we actually agree with the Chamber. We are opposed to giving money to somehow buy off human rights violations or stop migrants. It also gives the impression that the European Union is no longer capable of being influenced. I have already indicated that the Netherlands is on the EDF Committee. The situation is next. Eritrea can formally claim, on the basis of the Cotonou Treaty, which has been adopted in the Chamber, to allow funds to benefit the basic needs of the population rather than the government. I have just indicated that for a further adjustment of the aid to Eritrea, the Netherlands did not obtain a blocking majority. It is therefore a question of money that is entitled under a previous treaty. The committee's custom is that Member States should then try to agree to the best possible proposal. That is what the Netherlands has done. Nor have I heard from the Chamber that we would have come closer to what we all think with a different procedure. I would like to promise that the Netherlands will ask the Commission to report on the progress of the EDF projects within the EDF Committee. I will therefore be committed to getting enough countries along with the Commission's proposal for enhanced reporting. A number of motions have been tabled in this area. One of the motions calls on the government to work at European level to ensure that no more EU funds are provided to Eritrea and that joint measures are taken to put an end to practices such as extortion, threat and intimidation of Eritreans. I'm going almost as fast as Mr Azmani. I would like to ask Mr Azmani if he would like to hold this motion or if he would consider agreeing to the motion on item No. 120 by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Smaling. That motion is in line with what I have just said. I can't change the $200 million now. I said that it was a treaty obligation that we tried to adapt. Subsequently, a number of important judgments of the Chamber were passed by the Netherlands, which means that we will not be providing budget support and that all European countries agree that it should not be through the government. In the motion in part No. Mrs Karabulut and Mr Smaling asked whether we would like to call on the responsible Commissioner to freeze the contribution to Eritrea and make it available to UNHCR and NGOs. I can live with that. In any case, Mr Azmani's motion on item No. 109 as it is now drafted, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u129	You mean the motion in part No. 911. I've been looking for him for a while, and I've found the right motion. It is the motion by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Azmani. You say of that: should it logically be inserted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u130	Yes, because I can't reverse the 200 million at all, because it's now approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u131	So you are dissuading the motion in part No. 911? And then you say at the motion in part No. 120 that you'll pass judgment on to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u132	That's right. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u133	What's the difference? Both motions call for the 200 million not to be used in Eritrea, but for reception in the region. In the motion in part No. 120 is clarified in the sense that UNHCR should do so. I'll leave it in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u134	There's a difference. In the motion in part No. 120 states:... calls on the Government, with the responsible European Commissioner, to call for the contribution to Eritrea to be frozen and made available to UNHCR, which is a UN institution or NGOs. They can also work in Eritrea, but do so outside the government. I think that's wise. Let me now turn to the other motions relating to my wallet. Firstly, that is the Azmani/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 109, the operative part of which is: calls on the Government to summon the defendant to stop this tax and the abuses surrounding it and, as a result, to exclude the embassy. I have no problem with the motion as far as it is concerned, to address the defendant and the Eritrean ambassador, to invite them to my ministry and to inform them of our concerns about taxation. I will say to Mr Azmani that I will do so soon. However, I do not recommend the motion when it comes to taxation. An investigation has been promised by the Minister of Social Affairs. Nor do I want to anticipate what I am not yet sure about criminal offences. So I am not going to go so far as to have to report it to the ambassador by now and then, if the outcome is not forthcoming, I should close the embassy. I would suggest that Mr Azmani withdraw the motion and first give me the opportunity to speak with the Ambassador.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u135	I can think about it, but at some point it's end of practice. I'll give you that. So I'm thinking about it, but I can't say right now that I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u136	You can also hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u137	I have just expressed my opinion on the Sjoerdsma/Azamni motion on item No. 911. In the Voortman motion in part No. 114 calls on the Government, within the UN, to call for the report of the UN Human Rights Commission on the situation in Eritrea to be referred to the UN Security Council in order to take action to combat crimes against humanity in Eritrea. I shall leave this motion to the House. I agree, as I indicated earlier. The Dutch government will operate in this direction. Debates of the European Parliament 116, in which the government is invited to investigate the involvement of the Eritrean Consulate in criminal practices in The Hague, I should like to leave it to Mr Dijkhoff, because it concerns criminal practices. My responsibility is very limited when it comes to such subjects. In the motion Knops/Azmani in part No. 117 the government is invited to examine the possibility of banning Eritrea's diaspora tax in the Netherlands and to seek advice from the international advisor, and to call at EU level for action against Eritrea's long arm, including the diasporataks. It depends on the interpretation of the motion. I am prepared to ask the international advisor for advice on this, but I do think it depends on how that advice then comes to me what I can do with the other European countries. If you agree with that diligence, I will be happy to leave the verdict on the motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u138	For the Acts: we see Mr Knops nodding. That means yes. He therefore agrees with this interpretation and thus the Minister's opinion becomes "judgement chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u139	The Karabulut motion in part No. 119 is a request which I would like to make subject to both the inquiry announced by my colleague and the comments I have made on the other motions. I would ask Mrs Karabulut to put the motion to the vote. 119.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u140	Why would I have to hold that motion? Two years ago, the Minister at the time promised to initiate such an investigation. So I actually expected this minister to say that he doesn't have to, because we're almost done with the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u141	If I am going to the European colleagues on this, it is important to know what is happening in the Netherlands. On that basis, I can convince other colleagues. That is why I ask Mrs Karabulut to hold that motion. If not, I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u142	Other colleagues have exactly the same problem. That is why it is important to tackle it at European level. There are countries that are more active in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u143	I stand by my views on the motion. Then I come to the Karabulut/Smaling motion in part No. 120. I have already said that I would like to leave this to the Chamber. I have one more question to answer, which also concerns a motion by Mr Sjoerdsma on Al-Shabaab.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u144	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u145	Let me report to the Chamber the following. Mr Sjoerdsma was still entitled to answer his question. Since that question has not been answered in the first period, it is understandable that he has tabled a motion, namely the one in part No. 113. I understand that very well. I would like to inform Mr Sjoerdsma that Al-Shabaab is indeed on the list of international terrorist organisations, for various reasons, including because Al-Shabaab is associated with Al-Qaida. International research has been carried out into the levying of diasporataks to determine whether there are risks that money, not only through that tax, but also in other ways, would be made available to Al-Shabaab. That investigation was carried out by the Somalia and Eritrea Monitoring Group, under the responsibility of the UN Security Council. There was no evidence that Eritrea was funding Al-Shabaab. In that light, I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma if he will maintain his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u146	And what's your verdict on that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u147	I'd like to declare him redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u148	May I ask one more question for clarification? I have really done my best to go through the European sanction list and the Dutch penalty list. In the most recent versions I've been able to find, there's no Al-Shabaab. Where can I find that Al-Shabaab is actually on the Dutch and European terrorist list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u149	I'd like to give you that list. It is also available on the Internet, on various lists related to the European Union and the United Nations. I have no problem informing you of this in writing if that reassures you. Then you can then look at what you do with the motion on piece No. 113 wants to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u150	If Al-Shabaab is indeed already on terrorist lists, I will of course withdraw that motion, but I would like to see it, because I have been looking for it for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u151	Then I suggest that I give the Chamber further information on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u152	Very much so, and if possible for next Tuesday, because then these motions will be put to the vote. That would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u153	Yeah, no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u154	I asked another question about the border conflict. The Minister had said in the first term: I cannot do much about this, but he also said that he saw with his colleagues that they were also concerned about this. Doesn't he see an opportunity to see with his colleagues what role he can play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u155	That's what you're asking. I think it is an important request from you and your group, but I simply have to be honest with expectations management, as it is called. In the past, the Dutch Government has drawn quite a lot of attention to this. I have looked at how realistic it is to take this issue much further now, but if you would appreciate it, I will try to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u156	I appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u157	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u158	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 110 by Mr Azmani. We had a wide-ranging debate on this subject, in which we did not agree, so I think it is perfectly logical that he should then try to force me through the Chamber to do so, but I would advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u159	So the Azmani motion in part No. 110 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u160	With the motion in part No. 115, I've got a problem. When I read the lyrics, I think I want to read the lyrics. However, I also have to deal with an official opinion which points to practical and legal objections. I must advise against this motion because I cannot get over those objections. You would then do a screening on nationality or origin. I don't immediately know if that's insurmountable. I would like to inform Mrs Voortman and, of course, the entire Chamber more about what is and is not feasible. At first sight, my thought was that I wanted to do this, but I see the necessary objections and issues of proportionality that I do not want to get over tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u161	I do not need to go into this very extensively. I think it is a good idea for the Secretary of State to give us more information. Maybe he can tell us what period he has in mind for that. At least I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u162	Since I can't see how difficult it is, I'd like to consult with the people who know more about it than I do. Then I'll draw up a letter. If the objections are very great, the letter can come soon, but it is not very pleasant. If I have to look for ways to do it, it could take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u163	There's negotiations and I already know where it's going: after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u164	I would prefer a good letter to wait a little longer than a letter that is less careful. I'll be sure to keep an eye on this. I'm holding the motion for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u165	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (22831, No. 115). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u166	Then the motion to part No. 116. Apart from any problems you may experience in investigations into criminal offences at consulates, the collection of a traffic fine is already tricky, in this case there are no strong signals. There are no reports, so I can't force a criminal investigation. Apart from that, the D.A. and the police must of course be able to make their own choices in this matter, especially the D.A.'s office. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 116.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u167	As I know, there are still two motions for resolutions, namely those on item No. 111 and those in part No. 118.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u168	Mr. Chairman. To my knowledge, too. In the motion in part No. 111 is about preventing payment. I would like to do the research requested by Mr Azmani first to get an idea of where those flows are. If there are any possibilities, I will come up with proposals. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. I have to interpret the motion in that way otherwise it becomes a bit ins Blaue hinein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u169	As far as the Acts are concerned, Mr Azmani agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u170	With regard to the motion in part No. 118 I would like to ask Mrs Karabulut to delete the part on the mapping of money flows. If she does, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If she doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. In the debate, I have already said that I simply do not have the powers to map money flows. I can inquire about it, and I've already promised. That commitment will be reaffirmed in the motion, but then Mrs Karabulut will have to... She should of course have nothing, but then I would like to suggest to her that she delete that piece. Then I find the motion enforceable and I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u171	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u173	We see the motion in part No. 118 in amended form and then the opinion is: Court's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u174	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the rulers and also the members for their contributions. I would like to thank all those who have followed the debate, whether or not they are physically present in the public gallery.
