ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the people in the gallery, especially from Groningen to The Hague to follow this debate, and also the people who are following this debate in a different way. I see Mrs. Mulder's already standing by. Speaking time is set at six minutes per group. I'll allow three interruptions, preferably in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on the problems caused by gas extraction. Since 2012, there have been more than 50,000 claims. Let me repeat: more than 50,000 damage reports. What's the number of outstanding damages? Are all the damages being treated? If not, why not? The huge number of outstanding damages is a concern for the CDA fraction. There are many Groningers who no longer feel safe in their own home. All this because the whole of the Netherlands needs the desires of gas extraction, while the burdens are placed unilaterally with the Groningers. The increase in value, money to make schools safe, the way in which NAM handles VAT in complex cases of damage, all these things must be fought by the Groningers and removed from the gates of hell. The CDA is done with that. Of course we see the National Coordinator Groningen taking steps, but it is still too slow in the eyes of the CDA. This attitude recently by Secretary of State Dekker about the schools: isn't this minister ashamed of such an attitude of his cabinet? Will Alders get enough cooperation here in The Hague? Finally, the Minister now comes to the spring note. But how structural is that? In our view, Groningers should no longer be after this in the future. Not every two years the same search for resources, with the Groningen almost begging the minister. He's really gonna have to work on this. Is the Minister prepared to see how the Groningen could be more structurally supported in the future? He wants to regain his trust, too, doesn't he? We'll make an appeal to him to get to work on that. The CDA finds it very disappointing that the NAM holds on to the earthquake damage, rather than to mining damage, or damage by soil movement, as described in the BW. Because do I understand well from the cooperation agreement between the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM that this difference of understanding has to be fought even further? If there is anything bad for the restoration of trust, it is this discussion. Not only for Groningen, but also for mining in the rest of the Netherlands, like those small fields we just talked about. With argusogen, the rest of the Netherlands is looking at how the government in Groningen deals with its inhabitants. That does not really lead to trust, I have noticed, among other things when visiting Dongeradeel in Friesland. Mining damage must be compensated. That should be the starting point. How is this knot cut as quickly as possible? The study carried out by the University of Groningen shows that the decline in the value of housing is much greater than had previously been calculated. The CBS also indicates that it is good to make independent calculations of the decline in house prices using other methods. The Minister doesn't really want to know about this, says in his letter. But is he willing to support independent research into housing decline with various methodologies, such as carried out by the University of Groningen? Because according to that investigation, the proposed approach could be the building block for a general scheme to compensate for loss of value, also as an effect of the court ruling in the case of the WAG versus the NAM. Is the Minister prepared to do so? This fall in value indicates that there is a need to be compensated. The sales instrument pilot could meet these needs. The report of the National Coordinator Groningen states on page 10 that if there are more reports than budget available, a selection will take place. That can't be true, can it? If that happens, will the National Coordinator Groningen immediately be calling and the Minister ensure that the NAM complies with its obligations and that there will be additional money from the NAM? I would very much like to hear a commitment from the Minister on this point. I also have a question about the depreciation scheme of the NAM. How many applications have been made? How soon will these be dealt with? How much has been paid by now? Another point on which the Minister has made a commitment concerns the establishment of a nationwide window for mining damage, such as the Centre for Safe Living in Groningen. The Minister said he's talking about that. However, we have heard nothing more about this as a Chamber. We would very much like to receive a state of affairs, because we are about to deal with the amendment of the Mining Act. Then how do we deal with reversal of the burden of proof? If the Minister settles properly and neatly with such a counter, is the burden of proof still to be reversed for the rest of the Netherlands? Is that something the Minister is looking at? What is currently actually the estimate of the number of homes to increase? The NAM has a calculation for that. The National Coordinator talks about 78 buildings that were reinforced in 2016. The question is what total statement is actually in the picture. What picture has been drawn so far from the inspections? I would also like to mention the standards for vital infrastructure and industry. I understand from the answers to my written questions that a working group should come forward with an opinion. When does the Minister expect the outcome of this? They've been working on it for years now. When will this methodology be available? One reason for this debate was of course the hugely high gas extraction in 2013 and the investigation by the NOS journalist about the secret agreements that would have been made between the minister, Shell and ExxonMobil. To what extent have these parties really had an impact on this high extraction in 2013? We'd love to hear that from the Minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would like to return to a motion tabled in another debate. That is a bit difficult, but the motion is on this and has been moved to this minister. However, we have never had the opportunity to debate it. I would therefore like to put a question to Mr Mulder. The motion is about the secret adoption agreements of the NAM and that they are no longer allowed to conclude them. I also think transparency is important, and it is also good for the people of Groningen. But how do you guarantee that transparency? It has been said that people who have a confidentiality clause in their agreement are not bound by this and can choose for themselves. When do you know for sure that they choose according to their own will or that it's somewhere secretly in a clause? Isn't it better to make everything transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	We've been wrestling with this. We ask questions about VAT, how it is done, who is paying it off and who is responsible for it. Then you are sent a little bit with a bunny in the reed and then, after a lot of questions, finally comes the answer that people in certain cases have not been treated correctly and have been put in a position that you don't want to be in as a resident. That bothers us as a CDA group. I feel like it's bothering the whole room that it's happening that way. We believe that this also has to do with those confidentiality clauses. We believe that citizens should have the right to make the agreements public and to speak about them freely. That is what this motion is about. That is why we submitted her last Tuesday. We thought it would be best to do so with Mr Wiebes, the Secretary of State for Finance. That is why we tabled that motion last Tuesday. Fortunately, the motion is widely supported. It would be nice if the VVD Group could also support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	We think this is very important and transparency is essential, but we do see a number of problems. A comparison is made with public health, but medical misses are really a learning moment, because you want to avoid it. Here, however, there is very deep interference in private law agreements between a company and a person. That's a problem. I will first listen to what the Minister says, but for the VVD this is certainly a point where you have to be very reluctant. With regard to transparency, I do not hear Mrs Mulder's story that everything must be transparent. There's nothing more beautiful than just being posted on the website, everyone's and no problems? As soon as you do not make any part of it transparent, it is always a question of whether it is free will or whether it is imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	I think it is the locals' own responsibility to make it public or not. I really leave that choice with them. I think this is so important because the impression is that NAM wants to prevent things from coming out in all the damages and in everything that is difficult. I want to get rid of that. I think it would be good for the NAM to get rid of that, but it is up to the inhabitants themselves to make a choice. I don't want to be compelling in that. Personal responsibility also fits a bit with the VVD of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. Groningers didn't ask for gas extraction in their province. They also didn't ask for earthquakes or an unsafe and damaged house. They didn't ask for the tension and the fear of another quake. They don't wait for their house to fall in value, but they all get it on their plate. What is the point of all this? That's not much of a bar. There was a Centrum Secure Living for Damage Treatment, but that is not independent of the NAM. There was a reinforcement operation, but the results are lagging behind the planning. A value increase scheme was introduced, but it is still unclear how it will continue. There was a buy-back scheme, but it turned out to be temporary. The court ordered NAM to compensate for the decrease in the value of housing, but the NAM appealed. Meanwhile, there is no perspective on reducing gas extraction in large steps. I can imagine so well that the people in Groningen are disappointed or even frustrated. The Netherlands has made 500 billion dollars on the gas from Groningen and it is now time to convince the people in Groningen that they really are in the first place. Over 180,000 houses in the quake area in Groningen have become worth almost EUR 1 billion less. According to research by the University of Groningen, NAM pays less on average than the amount a house loses in value. On the basis of this study, will the Minister draw up a general scheme, which also compensates for the actual depreciation? There is a test with a buy-back scheme for poignant cases, but then by hand on the cut. Money is available for 50 households, while 115 victims meet the conditions. Will the Minister make the settlement permanent? The Chamber has the Bosman c.s. motion. called for a continuation of the value increase scheme. The scheme is not being continued in its present form, but we are still waiting for its exact impact. The Christian Union calls on the Minister to make the scheme benefit the property owners, as the scheme was intended. The NAM uses the decrease in the number of tremors to reduce the need to strengthen. That is also reflected in the figures. The estimate was 600 million for structural strengthening while expenditure was only 175 million. What about the promised 3,000 homes that haven't been reinforced yet? The Christian Union very much wants the National Coordinator Groningen to have full control of the reinforcement operation. Why should the NAM approve the National Coordinator's annual plan? So it is now: the National Coordinator proposes and the NAM determines. There's gotta be another way. The National Coordinator must be able to determine independently what is necessary to guarantee security and the NAM must then pay. The Safe Living Centre (CVW) still does not operate independently enough. Even the chairman of the supervisory committee of the CVW believes that the CVW should be at a greater distance from the NAM. We can't ignore this clear recommendation, can we? Not the NAM but the National Coordinator Groningen should do the assignment and the assignment should also be extended to all damage, also due to soil decline or small fields. It is good that the reinforcement of schools is finally accelerated. Is the contribution of NAM based on the cost of damage and reinforcement? It is striking that 31 of the 101 school buildings eventually disappear. The Christian Union considers good consultation and good coordination with the school authorities and parents of great importance. There must be no compulsion for cooperation or merger between denominations. There is still uncertainty about the monuments in the province of Groningen. I have also held a motion on this issue. If there's any damage, as far as I'm concerned, the NAM should just get over it. In that restrained motion, I advocated a Brim-plus arrangement. Does the Minister intend to reach such a settlement in consultation with the Minister of OCW? The book "The Gas Colony" and the WOB documents strengthen me in the idea that we need to get the truth completely out of hand. The gas building turned out to be a closed stronghold that could continue until the heavy quake in Huizinge in 2012. To the surprise of many, including the Christian Union, the gas crane was just opened up in 2013, precisely to reach the ten-year production ceiling of 425 billion cubic metres. Was that a catch-up from the NAM? The catch-up appears precisely in the WOB documents as an agreement between the Ministry and the NAM. My question is what exactly happened in 2012 and 2013. What information did the Ministry, NAM and State surveillance have? Why did the nitrogen plants stop in that year? The Christian Union believes that, of course, we should be fully committed to repairing damage and strengthening, but we cannot ignore the call from Groningen for a parliamentary survey. I think this is the only instrument that really restores confidence. I therefore call on my colleagues to support this. Finally, I would like to remind you of two motions adopted by the Chamber. The first motion calls for a vision of the strategic deployment of the Groningen gas rather than short-term pumping of the field. The other motion calls for the province of Groningen to be made a sustainable frontrunner. Those are two sides of the same coin. In 1965 the then Minister of Economic Affairs Joop den Uyl decided to close the mines, not because the coal was run out but because the gas from Groningen was the future. A gas grid had yet to be built, yet he dared to take this step. Does this Minister for Economic Affairs also want to put a mark on the horizon, not because the gas is running out but because of the climate agreement, the transition to clean energy and, above all, the safety of the people in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. In the coming weeks and months we will be talking a lot about the gas extraction in Groningen. While there are still thousands of people in trouble because of gas extraction with unsellable damage, unsold homes and concerns about the safety of children, a new year with gas extraction above the ceiling is soon being discussed, which is considered safe by experts. According to State surveillance, that ceiling is 12 billion cubic metres a year. We are also talking quickly about the Mining Act, extending the possibilities of refusing a permit and reversing the burden of proof in the event of damage. The Animal Party hopes that we will finally be able to bring this reversal of the burden of proof into effect for all the victims of gas extraction. Even if we have introduced more safeguards in the Mining Act to protect humans, the environment and nature in the extraction of fossil fuels in our country, the aim must be to stop gas extraction as quickly as possible. However, that is not the commitment of this cabinet or of previous governments. In May it became clear that secret agreements were made between a senior official of the Ministry of EZ and Exxon and Shell on long-term production ceilings. They were set too high under pressure from the gas giants, without the Chamber knowing anything about it. The minister says he doesn't know and doesn't feel bound to do so either, but the NOS has requested the documents by appealing to the Public Administration Act and has offered them as a download on its website. However, the 329 pages I downloaded mainly raise questions. In a previous debate with another minister it was about the fact that many parts were painted black. In the pieces I have been able to read, a lot of parts have been made white. You might call that "progress," but those white passages raise a lot of questions for me. However, it can be seen that the word "confidential" often appears on these pieces. "Confidential" means "something that should not become public knowledge" or "secret." To quote the writer Jan Gerhard Toonder: "Something is wrong here." The Party for Animals would like to know exactly what the fork is like. Last year, the Research Council for Security ruled devastatingly on the decision-making of gas extraction. It was not the safety of the Groningers that was at the centre, but the proceeds of the gas extraction. As a result of this report, my group has already called for a parliamentary survey to be carried out in order to get the bottom line. Two weeks ago, on 1 June, a large majority of the Provincial States in Groningen adopted a motion asking the House of Representatives to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the decision-making of gas extraction. Only the VVD Group voted against in the Groningen States, although it was not against a survey. I quote the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in Groningen: 'We are not against a parliamentary survey. If our colleagues decide to do so, we support it, but we are not talking about it." This means that the States do not deal with the agenda of the House of Representatives. It would be a good thing if the House were to take up its responsibilities and examine for itself how decision-making could have derailed so much, and that is the word to be used, that thousands of people are now in great trouble. In the spring of 2015, Mr Ouwehand tabled a motion asking the Bureau to set up a committee to prepare a parliamentary survey on the decision-making of gas extraction in Groningen. That motion was held at the time. I am considering having her put to the vote. The NAM appears to have been guilty of inciting a crime, namely VAT fraud, by requiring the victims to make the invoices relating to the reconstruction of the damaged dwellings in the name of the NAM, so that the NAM could recover the VAT from the Tax Administration. The NAM therefore leaves the State, and thus the taxpayer, partly to pay for the gas extraction damage. If the victims do not want to participate in this VAT fraud, the NAM leaves them in the cold and, against all agreements, does not pay the bills. Incorrect VAT return is punishable, so if this story is true, the NAM forces those who are injured to commit criminal acts. The reports on the scale of this took place contradict each other. In some reports there are "some cases," but in others of "hundreds of cases," but they are all commissioned by the NAM. I would like to know from the Minister whether these stories about the NAM are correct and what measures the Minister is taking. Is this information also passed on to the Functional Parket? Finally, the Chamber has made it clear that it wants to tighten up the rules on gas extraction. However, the Minister granted a permit to search for gas at Schiermonnikoog. We just talked about that, too. Eventually, this will lead to an application for test drilling. The Minister knows that there is no basis for pilot drilling in the Wadden region, neither among the population nor in the Lower House. The Chamber has already spoken out against gas extraction at Terschelling. The major objection that even more gas extraction in the fragile world heritage poses a far too great threat to our environment, the unique nature and the safety of our Wadden region, also applies to test drilling at Schiermonnikoog. Is the Minister prepared to impose a moratorium on new gas exploration and production until the Chamber has discussed the amendments to the Mining Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. If you have to feel safe somewhere, it's home. We all want that security wherever we live. Our home is a safe place for ourselves and for our family. This sense of security, of security, is far from being felt by many in the earthquake zone. The Minister has recently recognised the suffering and damage for the first time since gas extraction. That doesn't change anything. Quite rightly, the Groningers are asking for recognition of the problem and for addressing their interests. I repeat: that is absolutely right. Your house will only be damaged. You will be in uncertainty about whether or not the damage will be compensated or about the period during which that damage will be compensated. It'll be your house, but it's fallen in value. That affects people hard, even in their security of existence. For many, this house is also their property for old age. The Groningers, who have been hit so hard, have little faith in the NAM. The recent past gives us every reason to do so. And all too often, the NAM nourishes that mistrust by too slow handling of disputes and claims. That's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	The Minister and the NAM have indeed apologized for the policy pursued until 2013, in which the security interests of the Groningen people were not at the forefront. Does Mr Bosman also think that it would adorn the CEOs of Shell and Exxon if they made the same gesture towards the Groningen people, so if they said that Shell and Exxon had set their profits and not the security interests of the Groningen people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	We are about politics and our political responsibilities, and companies have their own responsibility. We have had this discussion in the past. I think it is important that we take responsibility and I also expect everyone to take responsibility in their own way. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	So Mr Bosman feels that Shell does not have to say anything about it. What does Mr Bosman think of the fact that we can read in the newspaper that Shell's CEO has sat at all kinds of kitchen tables in Groningen and that it is clear from questioning in Groningen that no Groninger can remember Shell ever being there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	I haven't read so many newspapers lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	It was two whole pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	Could have been three or four. I can't do that much with this kind of coverage. There is a lot of disappointment and anger in that area, but people also have a lot of ambition to arrange it and everyone does it in their own way. Of course people feel disappointment; that also comes to light in the news. But I find it very difficult to respond to a fact that I can't test or control, and to go after a journalist who says something. I'm not gonna let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	The NAM will and must continue to contribute to the compensation of the damage caused and to all the necessary measures that are now being taken, regardless of the level of gas extraction. Too often I get reports from people about complex cases that are still unresolved. I can certainly understand that things are sometimes complex, but only to a certain extent. The complex damage cases must also be resolved, and this must be done quickly. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. What is his view on this subject? Does he have an overview of the number of new and old complex damage cases and how they are handled? And what special role can the National Coordinator Groningen play in this? I would like to draw particular attention to the monuments. The owners and residents of our heritage are in the hair. They're gonna be all over the rules they run into. In fact, they are caught between the sometimes conflicting rules for the restoration of homes in the earthquake area on the one hand and the well-meaning National Monuments Act on the other. This results in a bizarre situation, in which a national monument that should not be affected is wrapped in a kind of crystal-like iron construction. There goes your living pleasure and there goes the value of your home! It's like Kafka. Minister Bussemaker spoke nicely about this, but what action has the cabinet taken to resolve this unreasonable situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr Bosman was right to speak about the problems that have not yet been resolved and asked the Minister what his view was. One point often emerged from the documents we read in preparation for this debate, namely that the Centre for Safe Living is considered to be insufficiently independent of the NAM. I am curious about the VVD's vision on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	We're in the process of making things better and better. I am very reluctant to say here that all this has to be changed. For example, there is often a call for a different organisation to be set up, but I want to be very careful about that. I'm more of a fan of fine tunes. We already have an organisation that is well-equipped to handle a lot of things, but unfortunately this is not yet done optimally. We notice that here too, because we can see that this is still very difficult in the complex cases. In my view, the solution lies in the question of exactly what is happening in the process and how we can improve it as best we can. I will certainly look at the role of the National Coordinator Groningen and I will ask him if we can change this process with the aim of improving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	It's learning by doing. After all, we do not know in advance what we will all run into. But if we run into something, we need to see how we can improve it. I am pleased that Mr Bosman referred to the position of the National Coordinator Groningen, because perhaps we can strengthen his position vis-à-vis the Centre for Safe Living. If we start working with an ex post responsibility rather than with all kinds of agreements that need to be aligned with the NAM, we might be able to fine-tune the process; as Mr Bosman so nicely said. Would he welcome a movement in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think it is important to speak to the National Coordinator Groningen first. Before we just pin a task on someone, he must be prepared for it and have the opportunity to do it. He must have the people around him for that, because it's not just something. I don't think we should get to a quick fix. We can't just say that the National Coordinator will do that for a while. The environment must be suitable for that. With fine-tuning there can be anything, as long as it is at the service of solving the problem in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	The National Coordinator Groningen is not part of our debate today. So we should think about how we can get his opinion on this. However, I understand that Mr Bosman is willing to think in that direction and to explore that option with the National Coordinator Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	Everything at the service of the solution of the problem in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'll come back to the monuments. Can Mr Bosman imagine that monuments in the earthquake area require some extra attention? Maintenance and restoration are more expensive. In the north of Groningen these are many identity-defining monuments, buildings that are very decisive for the identity of the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	Oh, yeah. I do not hear a question but a statement, and I fully agree with that. I've seen a lot of them, too. My colleague Michiel van Veen has been a great champion of this in the committee for OCW. He wanted the role of Minister Bussemaker to be prominent in this, so that she also took up her role in the management of monuments in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	I witnessed this as a cultural spokesperson. I want to go a step further. These are nice warm words about the monuments in Groningen, but it all has to be paid. I have held a motion on a form of a Brim-plus arrangement. It may also have a different name, but at least it is clear that extra money is needed. If we do not intervene now, there will be irreparable damage to monuments, so that they may not be able to stand up or even have to be destroyed. This will also put further pressure on the identity of the area. I would like to make a warm plea to the VVD Group to look again at that motion. Maybe we can come to a majority together. We've been talking about it for a long time, but in the meantime, it literally crumbles under our hands. Let's avoid that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	It is important to note that we are at least taking steps forward in improving the opportunities for the people with a monument, especially in Groningen. It is crucial to be able to remove a piece of regulation, giving people more space to solve it. I remember the motion. There was a discussion about how the funding would go. People were wondering if you would vacate something else, which would lead to other deficits. I certainly want to take another look at this, but I think it is very important that the step towards legislation is taken and that we have the space to tackle the monuments there. Of course, I am always willing to think about the funding. The beacons of gas extraction have been resisted. The VVD will do everything in its power to ensure that the beacons are also resisted in the handling of the damages. If the NAM does not give or gives too slow at home, we will appeal to the NAM. I also attach great importance to the fact that we are moving the beacons in another direction. We must not only do everything to restore Groningen's trust in the government, but we must also restore confidence in the power of Groningen. With all modern agriculture, technical innovations and new economic initiatives, Groningen has a lot to offer. Take the zero-on-the-meter houses. We talk a lot about this in the Chamber, but it happens in Groningen. In this sense, the disadvantage of the strengthening operation has the advantage that Groningen is ahead of the rest of the country in terms of sustainability. Therefore, give Groningen the space to start the recovery in confidence together with the National Coordinator Groningen and to work together on a new perspective on wealth and jobs in the north. The money that the Minister has made available for this is very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Bosman says that he will appeal to the NAM if it does not fulfil its obligations or is too late. How's he gonna do that? I don't really have a physical image yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	We'll do it together. Everyone who listens to this will have no doubt that this is a serious matter and that we think this is serious, Chamberwide. However, I believe that we must solve this system within the organisation. There's a Centrum Safe Living. There's a National Coordinator Groningen. There's a Technical Committee on Soil Movement. There is an ombudsman and possibly a judge. All these things are there. I believe that the potential that we have created in the north should be fully exploited so that it works optimally. I do not want us to deal with almost individual cases in the Chamber. That's not good for anyone. The better the system works and the better everyone knows what responsibilities and opportunities there are, the better everyone is treated. So you can see it as a non-binding call, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	The problem is that it is a strategy of the NAM to treat each case individually. That's what makes it so hard. Does Mr Bosman, like the SP, feel that the Centre for Safe Living is a kind of dependance of the NAM for the more difficult cases? That just doesn't work. That's what the Supervisory Committee says. Mr Bosman says that he will address the NAM to shortcomings. I would like to hear from him whether he sees what is actually going on there and that this has only increased the complexity. Does he agree with me? Or does he say a phone call to Mr. Schotman and it's done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	Now there are a lot of things in a lot of places. In the debate with Mrs Van Veldhoven, I also said that many things can be improved. We must do this carefully. If we say quickly that the Centre for Safe Living does not function, I think that is a bit of a turnaround. Because a lot of things are going well. A lot of damage is handled. People get their money or they get improved, strengthened or renewed. That is what is happening, and that is what we have to see. I understand what Mr Smaling says about the cases where it becomes more complex. Everyone's worried about that. That's a problem we all have to deal with. I expect nothing less than that the NAM will guarantee that and say: we are just going to do that. I expect the National Coordinator Groningen to have a piece of perseverance in that and that the Centre for Safe Living will play an optimal role in that. If we all find that there are problems, we all need to talk about it and make sure that it works out. Of course, each case is individual. You can't say: the whole group gets this or that. There are individual cases. That is why it is so important that the system works well and that all the options that exist work optimally. We are still in the process of improving that. I think we should keep each other sharp and ask each other about that, not only in this Chamber, but also outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	We've been talking in the Chamber about the earthquakes in Groningen for three years. For three years, people have been in their damaged homes. They've been in trouble for three years. The Chamber has made various proposals to improve the situation of these people, for example for a buy-out scheme, for reducing gas extraction, for better damage recovery and so on. All kinds of motions have been tabled, from my side but also from colleagues, but the VVD has stopped almost every motion, or at least voted against it. The result is that last year instead of 3,000 houses, 327 houses have been strengthened. How seriously should we take Mr Bosman's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	This is bullshit. I'm really sorry about this. I don't think we should be dealing with each other this way. Think, for example, of the Bosman c.s motion. on the value increase scheme. The whole Chamber has expressed its support for this, because everyone thinks this is important. The VVD didn't stop anything. There's still a lot of money going to Groningen. There will be a National Coordinator. The Safe Living Centre has been established. All these possibilities are there. People have objections. The Technical Committee on Soil Movement has arrived. Mrs Klever pretends nothing happens and the VVD stops everything, but she does wrong, not even so much to me, but to the people in Groningen. There is a great deal going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	A lot is happening. Committees shall be set up. There are advisers, arbitrators, supervisors and coordinators. Former politicians are being appointed. There is also something about sustainability, but people only want one thing, and that is that their damage is repaired and that they live in a safe house. The facts are that only 327 homes were strengthened last year. Mr Bosman cannot ignore that. The promise was that 3,000 would be strengthened. Will Mr Bosma, along with me, address the Minister, so that these 3,000 homes will be accelerated, plus the thousands that still have to be done this year? The President of the Netherlands has already said that the resources are there and that we are ready, but that we are getting bogged down in bureaucracy. We've all rigged up this bureaucracy here. Again, what are Mr Bosman's words worth? Is he gonna take me to make sure those 3,000 houses, plus all the other houses, are reinforced this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	First of all, it is Mr Bosman. We have to realise that ambition is there. The money is there and the possibilities are there. However, people are also busy looking at what they want with their homes. In the meantime, between 30,000 and 40,000 damages have been dealt with. All these cases are closed. So don't act like nothing's happening and we're behind and we're not getting anywhere. The ambition is there. The pieces are there and the possibilities are there. I've been to Loppersum. It's gonna be a really beautiful neighborhood there. At a rapid pace, things are being strengthened and improved. I find that impressive. Those are learning moments for other environments. These are taken into account in the process. I find it disturbing when it's pretending nothing happens. It's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	These are all fine words from Mr Bosman, but the facts do not lie: 327 houses instead of 3,000 houses. I find that really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	Finally, I have a question about the two contradictory studies on the decline in the value of the homes in Groningen. A long-term study of the value of housing should provide a clear picture of the housing value and effectiveness of the schemes, such as the value increase scheme and the buy-back scheme. The increase in value was continued with the help of the Court. Can the Minister explain how applications are being processed and how they are being communicated with applicants at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. We were in Loppersum about three or four weeks ago with about 40 SPs. There were a lot of happy red-dressed types around the village, but it was possible to ring everywhere in one day. That gives a nice picture of the diversity in Loppersum after the tremors. That image is interesting. There's minor damage. There's been major damage. There are mouthy people who have spoken well to the damage experts and have been able to get their compensation easily. But there are also people who don't. We've been standing with people crying, or people whose problems we couldn't solve immediately but who were glad we were there. If you put all that together, you can see a variety of people, whether they live at a terp or from the home furnishing shop on the square near the church where there's no business anymore, because who's gonna set up his apartment? By the way, that building itself is more or less on the verge of collapse. My question to the Minister is: it is nice that we invest in energy cooperatives and improve the landscape, but would it not make sense to invest in legal and psychological support for people? The report by the University of Groningen and the report by the provincial Ombudsman indicate that things are getting worse and not better. I have also been to Woldendorp; I now come to the areas outside the contour. In our opinion, the contour map has begun to lead a life that was not meant to be. Its intention was to provide the reinforcement operation with a physical and scientific basis through the NPR Directive. Now, this contour is used too conveniently to record the damage or not, or very easily to grant C-damage while there is earthquake damage. This is going to be a problem when we deal with the Mining Act, because then the reversal of the burden of proof will focus on a contour that is not used for what it was intended for. That is a big problem, because now it can be seen that the number of C-damages is increasing enormously. In the statement in the report of the CVW, the Centre for Safe Living, the increase in the number of C-damages is exponential. It really can't be that suddenly it's been decided that many of those damages aren't earthquake-related. I shall now come to the point that, in our view, the contour principle is being abused by the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living, by declaring, on the one hand, inadmissible damage and, on the other hand, the granting of a lot of C-damage. The contour principle is also not adequate for the reinforcement exercise. The most vulnerable objects must be the first priority. They are sometimes outside the contour. It's about group risk and the poor state of housing. In principle, we should abandon the basis for the whole damage story and the texts that we are always saying about earthquake damage, settlement damage, soil degradation and so on. Everything in this area is heterogeneous. The geological layers are heterogeneous, just like the soil and everything on them. We have sand, clay and peat soils. We have locks, canals and different types of houses that are based in different ways. We've got terpen. The zero situation in Groningen is that of when the quakes began. The discussion of whether or not something is earthquake damage does not see the fact that we did not make that heterogeneous zero measurement at the time because that was not the case at the time. I ask the Minister to look at the phenomenon of Earthquake-related damage in this way. So everything follows: A-, B- or C-damage and damage reported from outside the contour. Take it from me: I have been to Woldendorp, Usquert, Harkstede, Bedum, Onderdendam and Zuidbroek, and everywhere there is damage that cannot be traced back to overdue maintenance alone, or to settlement damage or soil decline alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr Smaling, of course, has a point here. It is very difficult for residents of Groningen when it comes to A-, B- or C-damage. It usually gets C and it gets more and more C. Furthermore, it concerns damage to movement or mining damage. The NAM sends you from the locker to the wall, say residents. And then there's the contours. But how are we gonna fix it? I am quite done with it myself, but we must ensure that it remains workable for those in the area who try to arrange things a little decently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	I think you should use the countercard for which it was originally intended, namely to lay the foundation for the type of reinforcement you want to realize. The fact that you work from the inside out is also very reasonable from a practical point of view, but you should not overlook the fact that outside those contours there are objects and buildings that need to be dealt with very quickly. That's becoming a problem right now. I am also thinking of all the individual things that we see coming along in, for example, the Dagblad van het Noord or RTV Noord. These are often objects where a very critical situation has arisen, in the sense that people have to get out and stay behind with a mortgage. So you have to let that go. So you should not use the contours to deal with the damage, and that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	What kind of line would you draw? I am therefore looking forward to the reversal of the burden of proof, which was also mentioned by the Animal Party. In fact, the Council of State has designated a very selective area. As far as you are concerned, should it apply to the whole of Groningen or only to areas where earthquakes have taken place? How are you supposed to define that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	In itself, that's pretty diffuse. In South Laren sand sculptures have partly collapsed in one of the quakes. Well, that's pretty far away. In the 1980s, Assen had a quake. You can assume Den Helder isn't bothered by it, but you shouldn't really delineate that area. If it's far away from an epicenter I realize this isn't exactly the right word. Then it could be quake damage and it must be compensated. I am also curious about the National Coordinator Groningen. That is also one of my key points because I think it is essential that this person's work should come to a successful conclusion and that what is in his plan is also being carried out. The feeling of the SP-fraction is that especially the NAM is too much in between. Our main objection is that the coordinator does have the direction of the reinforcement but does not have the direction of the settlement of damages. And we have to do it together. You cannot arrange one and leave the other to a party that has an interest in ensuring that there is as little damage as possible. Is the Minister going to intervene in this? The current cooperation agreement between the NAM and the NCG simply reads as a coordinator who is a kind of errand boy from the minister and the NAM together. I also have the question as to whether there will be another fund and, if so, when we can expect it. With regard to the buy-back scheme, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can become more than just a pilot. On the VAT issue, there is another motion by Mr Bashir, on which I would also like to receive a response from the Minister regarding the agreement on the fixing of VAT. If the NAM makes use of this possibility, I am also curious how it is going with the Groninger Forum and all kinds of schools. If a tax deduction is used there too, I do not think that is a good thing. The Gas colony is a beautiful book. It's sporting from the minister that he's been working on it. As far as the SP is concerned, the NAM and the Shell can take another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. In the research of the University of Groningen we read that the people who have multiple damage and live in the zip code areas close to the heart of the earthquake area, have one and a half times as many physical complaints and also have far more physical complaints than other people. So it's no longer a matter of cracks and doors that can't be closed. It's not even a matter of whole buildings collapsing anymore. It kills people in terms of health and mental health. They have less good mental health and have more specific health complaints that can be directly related to that area. It is not a matter of colds or sprained ankles, but of complaints that can be related to them. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that. I assume he'll say he's very sorry about this for these people. How can we allow an industrial activity while the regulator advised in 2013 to turn the crane off as quickly as possible and as far as possible? This industrial activity has not only caused a lot of material damage. It also destroys people. Colleagues will also have this: the mailboxes are filled with messages from muzzled Groningers that are not coming through the system. A number of parties have called for a parliamentary survey. That's what you get at some point when the problems are so big that it doesn't work out. Mrs Klever said that so many thousands of houses need to be strengthened each time that we do not make it. There's been a lot of trouble with the appreciation scheme. The Chamber will be responsible for that. Maybe that'll work out. Then there is a call for a parliamentary survey. I would like to propose an intermediate step and I would like to know what the Minister thinks about that. In 2013, an authoritative report was published by the Research Council for Security, which contained a large number of recommendations. The Minister is working with some of them. I do not think he has done enough with some of the recommendations. Is it possible to wait for a parliamentary survey to be carried out, but to have the Security Research Council consider updating that investigation? The extent to which the recommendations have been implemented can then be reviewed. The OVV can also make a new assessment of the balance sheet: are we only going for the profits of the oil companies or are the safety of the Groningers at the top? I come to talk about the damage recovery, the strengthening and the value of the homes. Are the stories true that people who want to sue for their damage do not get legal aid? What about exclusions in insurance in Groningen? Is the Minister prepared to enter into consultation with the Association of Insurance Companies? Is there any way to insure this damage at all? Is that always ruled out when residents try to claim? Questions have already been asked about confidentiality. I too would very much like to hear the Minister's answer to these questions. Project developers in Groningen are critical of the Safe Living Centre. How independent is that? I'd like an answer from the Minister to that question. I devote a large part of my speaking time to justice. Can the Minister make a flowchart for the residents of Groningen? If a resident is a "complex case," he goes to the Safe Living Centre and is then forwarded to the National Coordinator. He can then go to an arbitrator when it comes to complex damage caused by gas extraction. If the damage is due to soil decline, then he must go to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement. Wouldn't it be much clearer for the citizen if all the cases could just go to court? That's what we have the judge in the Netherlands for. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the President of the Northern Court on the establishment of a special chamber for the open and transparent handling of gas cases? The rulings will then be binding immediately. One of the problems with the arbitrator is that the rulings are not binding on the water boards. The judge can deal with all types of damage. The judge doesn't need evidence of causality, as the Technical Committee on Soil Movement wants. In Dutch law you must make it plausible that the damage was caused by the NAM in this case. On the basis of a motion by then PvdA-Kamerlid Dijksma, a law for mass damage clearance has come into force. Does this law apply to Groningen? Would we be able to adapt this Collective Resolution Act to help the Groningers deal with their damage more quickly? In my remaining 50 seconds, I have some questions about the motions. The Minister says that GroenLinks' adopted donation tax motion is not necessary, because this never comes up. I have heard that it is said that we can no longer compensate, we can only do it on this damage, otherwise donation taxes will have to be paid. So it's not the issue right now because it just doesn't get paid. I wholeheartedly support the implementation of the CDA's motion on this complete one-stop shop handling. That really needs to happen. I have put forward two proposals: the court and the Collective Resolution Act on Mass Damage. Other solutions are fine with me, but a complicated flowchart is not possible. GroenLinks and PvdA have tabled a motion to unlock information on demolition, evacuation and evacuation. The reaction to this is actually a flowchart. The citizen has to get it together: figure it out, it's on websites here and there. It's a small service to just put this together on a website. People should not panic because they think that the other house is being demolished or evacuated. I know the information can be found, but even I have the greatest difficulty in mapping it clearly. Unfortunately, I am completely out of my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. D66 wants everyone in Groningen to be able to live in a safe house and be helped quickly and well by damage, reinforcement or departure. But almost four years after Huizinge, things are still not going well. The reinforcement program is slower than expected. Instead of 3,000 homes, only 1,100 have been strengthened. The Supervisory Committee warns against a repetition of the delay in 2016 and refers to ever changing contour and construction standards, unless the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM quickly cut through. Is the minister gonna take care of it with those parties? That it is difficult and that the matter is difficult, we all understand that. But if we know what this is about, and if we can cut some strings, let us do it quickly. I was just talking about learning at doing. This also applies to the Centre for Safe Living, but there is continued dissatisfaction with the role of the NAM. That is something that we really need to take a good look at together. For example, the NAM has promised to record the damage everywhere, whether inside or outside the theoretical contour maps. The NCG has previously said that these contour cards are a tool and not a hard dividing line. That promise is not being fulfilled. I understand that the Center of Safe Living doesn't record the damage outside the contour maps. It can't be. The CVW says that it is outside its task area, because the NAM has adjusted the rules of the game in the meantime. Mrs Van Tongeren already referred to an e-mail that I also received. We hear from people in Bedum who live in an unsafe house because they are not allowed to act there by the Centre for Safe Living. Of course you can't. Nor can people get into financial difficulties because they cannot afford to pay for counter-expertise. If we say that it must be safe, then we must also make it possible, in practical terms, for it to be safe. Can the Minister ensure that the NAM keeps its old promise and that the damage is measured everywhere? Then there are follow-up steps, fair enough. In any case, we must ensure that we get a good idea of whether or not there is a risk for people. Besides the houses and the buildings there are also many discussions with the NAM in the monuments. Fortunately, Groningen is full of them: beautiful farmhouses, ancient churches, beautiful villagescapes. But here too, it is difficult for the Centre for Safe Living to act properly, because there is too little knowledge, because there is too little real expertise. Residents depend on the direct discussion with the NAM. That leads to a lot of problems. D66 therefore believes that there should be a separate, independent expert team, which can perfectly be accommodated at the Safe Living Centre. There must be sufficient knowledge. People should be able to ask a second opinion when a proposal is made for the strengthening of their beautiful old building, because perhaps something is being proposed that in your opinion totally undermines the character and the monumental value of the property. Then you should be able to ask for a second opinion. The Centre for Safe Living must therefore always comply with the frameworks set by the NAM and can therefore make few own considerations. That is why I believe, as I said in an interrupting debate with Mr Bosman, that we need to consider how we can strengthen the independence of the centre. This will strengthen the confidence of residents in the judgment of the Centre for Safe Living. It would be a nice thing for me to think with the National Coordinator Groningen about whether this could be placed more under his direct direction in order to improve the functioning. The reports on the housing market in Groningen do not yet give a clear picture of the decline in value and the sales periods. We get a picture of the average, but that can be an average of two very large extremes. If you compare a yuppen apartment in the center of Groningen with an old house in the center of Loppersum, on average you can come up with something similar to the rest of the Netherlands, but it can still be very different by segment. Can we get a better picture of the real marketability of the houses by segment? I want a clear picture of where the problem is. Why is it based on the market value and not on the rebuilt value, which all insurances use? Are we not getting closer to the damage that people are actually suffering? In addition to all the discussions I have already mentioned, there are still discussions about cases where people are sent from the locker to the wall, i.e. from one window to another. Do you have to be at the waterboard? Is it bottom drop or earthquake damage? The whole idea of the Safe Living Center was that there would be one window. Of course there are different responsibilities, but that should not matter to the people of Groningen. For them, there must be one window. Afterwards, the bill can be cut up in the back rooms and divided between different persons responsible. It doesn't work that way yet, but it has to be like this. That is an additional reason why I would like the National Coordinator Groningen to be given a stronger role. We have all read in the newspaper about the harrowing case of the man who became homeless after his house was bought up. Such people should also be given the opportunity to be accompanied for a while in finding a new place. People need to be able to land after they've been bought out. Even in old cases that are still under discussion, people must have access to the arbitrator. We have established that the arbitrator is a good idea. Why, by definition, should old cases not have access to an arbitrator? Of course they should! Is the Minister prepared to look into that? I have to go through some other questions very quickly, because time flies. I am very pleased with the progress made in relation to the schools. How long has the school reinforcement programme been completed? In the context of the reinforcement and sustainability exercise, I ask the Minister how many houses he wants to sustain for this 165 million and how exactly the budget is used. What does the Minister mean by taking the money for the increase in value out of the budget for sustainability? GroenLinks and D66 are also united on the OVV: it would be very good if the recommendations of the OVV were looked at again. D66 would like an update of the report. We would like to involve them in the debate on gas extraction that we are holding after the recess. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Finally, the Minister announced additional resources for the multiannual programme. How can we, as a Chamber, be informed of the use of funds by the National Coordinator Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet makes the damage settlement for the victims of the earthquakes in Groningen a kind of traditional procession of Echternach: three steps forward, two steps back. In any case, this picture is outlined in the independent counsel's report, which states that the number of complaints about damages has increased by over 50%. The counsel also notes that the Centre for Safe Living does not comply with agreements, deals with exceedances of time limits and works with downright blunt experts. Vereniging Eigen Huis is the emergency clock: there is a magical set of figures, the damage recovery stagnates in large groups of residents and 3,300 reports are not even dealt with, despite the promise that all damage reports will be seriously investigated. My first question is about the damage experts. A number of case managers of the National Coordinator Groningen have gained many years of experience at the NAM. If these people in the service of the NAM were already unable to resolve the problems surrounding the damage settlement satisfactorily, why were they appointed by the National Coordinator? Was Mr Alders too busy with one of his dozen other side jobs to deal with this kind of detail? The PVV wonders whether the function of National Coordinator is at all suitable as a part-time side job for the side track champion of the Netherlands. I'm here to talk about the buyout arrangement. It seems that local PvdA administrators are the only ones in the Netherlands who are holding back a generous buyout scheme, which the PVV has been advocating for three years. Even the director of the NAM stated in his New Year's speech that he is in favour of a buy-out scheme but that local directors in particular are obstructing such a scheme. The result of this opposition is that there is now a very limited buy-back scheme for up to 50 homes, whereby residents are shipped off with a tip. Residents whose house was worth two tonnes for the damage are now being bought out for 95% of the current valuation value, that is €130,000, according to RTV Noord. Refugees who enter our country massively receive a free home from some mayors and even €10,000 shopping property, but Groningers who have been hit by an earthquake are sometimes left empty-handed, so we could read in the newspaper at the end of May. That is a gross disgrace and unworthy of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think I should call it a point of order. I find it unfortunate that the National Coordinator Groningen, who cannot defend himself here, is described in this Chamber in this way. I don't think we should do that, that the Chamber is unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	You've made your point. Mrs. Klever, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	Then what is to be done? First of all, the buying-out scheme must be set up unbiased, not a maximum of 50 homes, but just for anyone who wants to leave the earthquake area. The sale fee should also be related to the value of the property prior to earthquake damage. The PVV believes that the WOZ value as of 1 January 2012 is an objective measure of the value of the property. Is the Minister prepared to adapt the current regime in this way? Secondly, the priority for dealing with the damage must be reversed. The current practice is a bit like scoreboard journalism. Small cracks are repaired fairly quickly so that the percentage of damage handled is relatively high. The people with complex damage have to wait months and sometimes years for the damage to be dealt with correctly, and this is often accompanied by a lot of legal work. No wonder these people suffer from both mental and physical health problems. As far as PVV is concerned, these complex damage should be given priority and these people should be helped as soon as possible. Is the Minister prepared to do so? This also means that the five arbitrators should focus on providing a solution to the complex cases that have been going on for years. However, the Minister chooses to use these moving judges mainly for the new cases. Why? Thirdly, the broom must be handled by the so-called "independent damage handling'. Weblog Follow the money explained the appearance independence of the CVW, the NCG and Arcadis. The CVW is basically just the NAM, only under a different denominator. The NCG consists of expensive, political errand boys, with employees of the NAM, and Arcadis has just signed a five-year multi-million-dollar contract with the NAM. In short, the NAM still dictates while the role of the NAM should be limited to the mere girtation of money. The result is that real aid and compensation are made unattainable in a highly expanding and money-consuming swamp, such as a Groningen that appropriately summarized. The PVV says: stop creating ever new jobs for former politicians. Stop fooling civilians with false independence and get to work on repairing the earthquake damage. How is it possible that construction companies have staff and resources available but are waiting for red tape? In the annual report of the CVW I read that in 2015 only 327 homes were reinforced while there should be 3,000. "Security first" is therefore the umpteenth hollow phrase of this cabinet, according to the supervisory committee. The structural strengthening of housing is awaited, because there is still a need to negotiate the simultaneous energy-neutralisation of these homes. So it is not safety that is paramount, but sustainability. Why should more than half of the NCG's budget be spent on sustainability, while only 20% is used to strengthen and repair complex damage? We ask the Minister to stop hobbying and do what he has promised; deal with the damage. The settlement of damages has been trained by this cabinet for three years by hassle about the value of houses, by hassle about the cause of the damage, by opposition from local administrators who want to lock up the residents in their municipalities as prison guardians and by hobby of the House of Representatives about sustainability. We ask the Minister to stop this circus and do what you are legally required to do. Strengthen and repair the damage generously and come up with a decent buyout scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	PVV and SP work together on this dossier. But it disappoints me that the refugees are being started in a sub-section. Groningers are very social people, who are in deep trouble because of the earthquakes. But why do you have to bring this up? What does that add to the point that we share in this Chamber, namely that we want to help those people in Groningen out of misery as quickly as possible? Why does it have to be, such an antisocial shot in a further firm argument anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	I do not agree with Mr Smaling on this point. Where there's a will, there's a way. This cabinet of PvdA and VVD does manage to arrange accommodation for 50,000 refugees in a year's time. The barracks need to be converted, tent camps need to be set up, nursing homes need to be converted, while in Groningen the strengthening is not getting underway. Three thousand houses can't be strengthened. This shows the priorities of this cabinet. I find that very disappointing. Because where there's a will, there's a way. If the cabinet really wants it, it's possible. The President of the Netherlands has said: we are ready with people and resources, but we cannot start, because we are sinking into a bureaucratic swamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	We do not disagree on the last point. But I wonder why the PVV always sells people who come from somewhere else against the so-called real Dutch. By the way, most Groningers have ever come this way from Germany, so perhaps you can also call them refugees with some imagination. Why does the PVV keep doing that? I don't understand. Furthermore, we can agree on things very well, also on this point, but then, if necessary, there are groups of people who would be favoured. Go see what it looked like in Heumensoord. Don't do that in a debate like this. Use fora and gremia where you can get rid of your egg at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	I'm talking about my own words. The way the Groningers are handled, I find below all levels. They get bogged down in a bureaucratic swamp, commissions, supervisors and coordinators are appointed. But the strengthening of the houses just doesn't work out at all, when it can. Because the cabinet manages to provide 50,000 asylum seekers with a roof over their heads. What are the priorities of this cabinet? I don't think they're enough with the Groningers right now. I wanted to make that clear with my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. Since this cabinet started its reign and this Chamber assesses this cabinet on what it does, a lot has happened in the province of Groningen. After we found that the earthquakes there could be much more powerful than we had assumed until then, gas extraction has been reduced. And that's not just a little bit, it's huge. This has meant a lot for the safety of the people in Groningen, because the earthquakes there have been reduced. Many people in Groningen now recognise that and they see that when politics does something, it has the effect. They also see that it is not easy, that there is a lot of political battle about it and that it takes a long time for them to be heard. When I get to Groningen now, people when it comes to gas extraction don't "help us" anymore, but then they say: good that you've finally understood that something needs to be done. Of course, they want the extraction to be further reduced, but they do understand that we have finally done something for the province of Groningen. When it comes to strengthening and security of buildings, a lot has been set in motion. Very recently, we have seen plans from the province of Groningen to strengthen schools in Bedum and make them safe for future generations of children who have to spend every day in those school buildings. It is disappointing for me, as a politician, to see how we should push and pull to get EUR 110 million to make the final points for the plans of the province of Groningen, but I note that it will succeed in the end. I also receive thanks from the people from the province of Groningen, because they see that we are all here trying to help them. However, in the area of repairing the damage to the homes in Groningen, things are not going well. That point here today, along with the decline in the value of the homes, is central topic of discussion. What's going on in the core is that the NAM, along with the drivers in Groningen, is unable to help people when they're in trouble. As long as that doesn't happen, I'm gonna tell NAM and all the local leaders in Groningen, including my own party who have responsibility there, as long as people aren't helped, they're gonna keep complaining, they're gonna come knocking on our door, we're gonna have debates here and we're gonna keep discontent in the province of Groningen. I ask the directors of the NAM: why do I have to read that one in ten cases is a C-damage, why are people sent from the cabinet to the wall in a contour area, why don't you just help those people? There is 150 billion euros made from gas extraction in the Netherlands and now money is needed to help people because they have damage to their homes. But over and over and over again these people, despite all the debates, remain in the cold. If directors of companies, valuers, entrepreneurs and the Dutch government understand that we have to solve these problems and if we do, then this item will eventually go off the political agenda in The Hague and people in Groningen are satisfied. They don't ask that much, they just ask what they deserve: a safe and pleasant home to live in. The CBS study gives different figures than the research of the University of Groningen when it comes to the decrease in value and it is not small amounts. What is even worse, however, is what lies behind it, namely that there are large differences per village, per community when it comes to the decline in the value of the houses. What lies behind it are people who are locked up in their own homes, who have tried to build up their pension with that house or who want to leave the area for all kinds of personal reasons, but who are locked up and cannot leave. I ask the Minister for a large buy-back scheme for hard-to-sell houses. The EUR 10 million pilot shows good use of the scheme. It is not a huge amount, it is EUR 10 million, but there are many more possibilities. I would also ask the Minister to apply the NAM's depreciation scheme not only within the contour area of the NAM, but also outside. And I ask the Minister not only to compensate for the damage on sale, but also if this is not the case for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	I'm just gonna turn to that independent research done by the University of Groningen. On that basis, I have requested this debate. The minister says in the letter that he thinks the CBS investigation is sufficient. Does the PvdA Group with the CDA Group think that this additional research can be very valuable, precisely to do justice to the problem behind the front door?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	I believe that the Minister's policy conclusion, in order to continue only to monitor developments, is insufficient. That is why I ask the Minister to consult with NAM, the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen and to call for a wider buying-in scheme, that the value reduction scheme should also apply outside the contours and that not only damage should be compensated in the case of sales but also if there is no such arrangement for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	It's good to hear this. The CDA Group feels the same way. For the future, we would like the UG research to remain alongside it, and the Minister also supports it. Is that how the PvdA Group sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	According to the University of Groningen, the total loss of value would be a small billion and cover 180,000 homes. These figures are different from those shown in the CBS study. I think it is very important that we have several studies, because it shows how complex this problem is. But once again, the only solution is to address these people's problems, help them and strengthen their homes. We can do another, one more and one more investigation, but that will ultimately help no one but us, because we can then have another debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	Now I think it's getting a little confusing. I've already received a sort of yes and now the spokesperson of the PvdA says he doesn't need an investigation anymore, while this research shows that it can be quite different in certain places. From that research, the PvdA spokesperson said that he would like to be addressed by the Minister, and at the same time he no longer needs it for the future. How am I supposed to take that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	I think Mrs Mulder and I are in complete agreement. The research of the University of Groningen, to which I have already referred, is of great importance to me. I think Mrs Mulder also heard me say that the Minister's policy conclusion is insufficient. The Labour Party wants a wider buy-back scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	Hooray, the PvdA wants a bigger buy-back scheme! I am very pleased with that, because the PVV has been advocating this for three years. I filed one, two, three, four, five motions on this in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. The PvdA voted against all five motions. Is the PvdA going to vote for a buy-back arrangement or is this just hollow rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	Feeling misappreciated in politics has almost become usance. There were several reasons for my group to vote against these motions, but it is clear what the Labour Party stands for. We would like the investigations to be taken seriously. We note that the current buying-in scheme, as carefully designed, is a success and ask the Minister to broaden it. If Mrs Klever supports us in this, we will welcome that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	That is, of course, the reverse world. I have been asking for it for three years and have already tabled five motions on it, but Mr Vos has just voted hard five times against those motions. I am pleased that Mr Vos is now out and I also invite him to table a motion with me to implement that buy-back scheme. Is Mr Vos prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think it is very kind of you to address this request to me. However, I think it would be a good idea for you to feel less misguided and await the Government's response in the second term to the requests that I have addressed to the government. After that, we can take a closer look. Because ruling by motion isn't my favorite way of working either. I prefer to talk to each other in a quiet and respectful way; then we can try together to arrange things for the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	Just a little point. The judgment that I would feel unrequited is entirely up to you. This isn't about how I feel at all, it's about how the Groningers feel. You are standing here with dry eyes claiming that you want a buy-back scheme, while you have stopped it for three years. Those are the facts. It's not about how I feel or how you feel at all. This is about the Groningen. You shouldn't fool him. If you say that you want a buy-back arrangement, you should go ahead and support a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	I've got another subject, but if we're gonna do a block of interruptions, I'm gonna go through it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	You saved the interruptions for Mr. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	Also the PvdA Group...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	I don't know how it happened, but I often turn off the microphone with you. Sorry, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm sure it'll be completely unconscious, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group in the Provincial States of Groningen supported a motion on a parliamentary survey. In my contribution and earlier in the media, I proposed that as a Chamber, I should ask the Minister to submit to the OVV whether it is an "intermediate idea" to ask for an update of the investigation, which we all thought was authoritative and which really caused a reversal of policy. I am curious to see how the PvdA Group views that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	That request is addressed to the government. I don't really need an update right now, because I know that report from the OVV. We have also talked about this very often here. I welcome Mrs Van Tongeren's suggestion, but I am actually quite capable of checking out what the cabinet has or has not realised and then calling on the cabinet here in the Chamber to implement the recommendations that have not yet been made. I think the cabinet is working hard on that, too. I therefore find the idea very sympathetic, but at first I do not feel that it meets an information requirement of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	If Mr. Vos can give that update, I'd like to see it. However, with all due respect to the PvdA Group and the Chamber, I think that an OVV report has even more status than a statement by the PvdA Group in the House of Representatives, also for the Groningers themselves. With such an update in hand, the groups of the PvdA and GroenLinks and other groups may be even more successful in making necessary changes to the rules. Depending on the Minister's reply, I am therefore considering tabling a motion on this matter. I would be delighted if the VVD and the PvdA would support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	Again, this is a very sympathetic thought from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I will be happy to look into that idea, but it seems to me that it is primarily up to the government to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	On the basis of the cooperation agreements, I have established that the NAM must establish the annual plan of the National Coordinator. I find that a very strange figure, because the National Coordinator is actually the figurehead of the Groningers and stands up for their interests. Because of this kind of arrangement, he is bound to the NAM with his hands and feet. Does the Labour Party think this is a very strange construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yes. This isn't the only weird construction we see in Groningen. Other speakers have already mentioned the way in which the Safe Living Centre has been set up and the connection of valuers, execution companies and investigations with the NAM. The NAM is a very large and powerful party. Yesterday, experts in the Chamber were visiting. One of those experts, from the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, said that the NAM is a very large and strong party with a lot of money and a lot of legal knowledge. The citizen is on his own and has nothing to say about it. That's what you see in practice: citizens are sitting there with that company and those expensive lawyers and they have to sign everything to get rid of the bullshit. That, of course, is not really a desirable situation. That is why we have proposed the reversal of the burden of proof for the citizens; I hope that we will soon be able to discuss the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	These are all words I very much agree with, of course, but today we have a debate and we can also table motions today. My group will do the same to see how we can loosen up the National Coordinator Groningen as well as the Centre for Safe Living from the NAM. Then we can really take steps, not in the mining debate, but today, as a result of the situation in Groningen. I hope that the Labour Party will support these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	The Mining Act is designed in such a way that the company causing the mining damage also has to compensate for the damage. That means the NAM will have to compensate for that damage. In that sense, there is a certain game going on. On the one hand, we talk to the NAM every time and say: you have to pay. On the other hand, we are also trying to be a bit nice, so that the NAM continues to cooperate and does not justify the whole process in such a way that we are only engaged in conflicts, so only get a little American states. Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that this is too intertwined. I share that view. I'd like to see more distance. However, it is primarily up to the NAM itself to realize that it really has to ensure that no more complaints come to us. That is the essence; the people there must be helped. If that happens, we won't have to talk about structures anymore. There's no point in ruling a motion. We really need to get to the situation where this political process changes and the NAM realizes that it has to help the citizens of Groningen and that the problem will then be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	In fact, we cannot change the culture of the NAM by motion. However, we can see if we can change the cooperation agreement in such a way that the National Coordinator Groningen says something is necessary and then the NAM pays. Now the NAM approves the plans of the National Coordinator. I don't think that's the idea. I hope that Mr Vos agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	I do not think it is as clear and unambiguous as it is being formulated. I think it is very important to realise that every citizen is quite defenseless of that large organisation. That is the essence of the problem we are discussing. All these other things, including what Mrs Dik-Faber is talking about, are distracted. A citizen has a problem, has damage to his home and feels unsafe, and must be helped by the mining company that caused the damage: that is the core of the process. We have built too many structures around it, so we no longer see the forest through the trees. That is why I hope that the arbitration process that has now been initiated by the cabinet, including at our request, will lead to results. I also hope that the reversal of the burden of proof will finally be able to pass through the Chamber so that citizens will be in a stronger position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	It is indeed difficult to govern a motion, but we will have the opportunity to amend it in two weeks' time. Mr Vos says that the Minister, the NAM and the National Coordinator should be consulted. They do that all the time, but they still don't get along. I would like to refer to the book De gascolie, which I am sure Mr Vos will have read. The NAM, Shell and everything behind it is all so terribly powerful! We all see delays in recent years: suddenly very few houses need to be strengthened, the NAM controls the Centre Safe Living and no damage is recorded outside the contours. In every possible way sand is sprinkled into the engine. How is the Labour Party going to ensure that the NAM is really put at that distance needed to get things back on track in Groningen as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	The Minister, the National Coordinator, the Chamber, all local directors in Groningen and many people at the NAM work very hard to improve the situation. In the field of gas extraction, there is now widespread awareness that gas extraction needs to be reduced. We have made significant use of that process; something really happened. However, in the area of housing restoration and consolidation, the new reality has not yet descended well, especially not with the NAM. I make the following appeal today to the NAM: if you realise that the only way to improve the situation in the area is to ensure that you comply with your legal obligation, and if you do not, we will take more and more legal measures to ensure that you comply with that obligation. I do not think that building new structures or making the already complex structures that we have put in place even more complicated is the path we should all take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	I had a visit to the NAM a month ago. I was shown a state that showed that the number of tremors is decreasing but the number of complaints is increasing. And then I was looked at in a significant way, with such a look: the Groningen are trying to screw us. That's the mentality. How is the Labour Party going to help? We need it for majorities? That's the mentality. In what way is the Labour Party going to help to put an end to this situation, if there is a possibility of doing so through legislation? After all, we need you for a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	I think it is right to say that the number of tremors has decreased. That's because we've reduced gas extraction. Mr Smaling implies all kinds of things with his words. He indicated that he was being looked at in a certain way and was trying to make it clear to him that people were being bullied. I don't like talking to each other that way. I think we live in a country in which people generally deal with each other in a reasonable way. But I think it is worth noting that Groningen has been dealt with in a very unreasonable way, initially by leaving gas production too high for too long and secondly by not compensating for the damage in good time. The first point has been largely resolved, but the second point is not, and it has to be done now. If Mr Smaling wishes to ensure this with me in all reasonable terms, I will support every proposal he has made. I think, however, that it is especially important now to strengthen the legal position of the residents, not because I hope that this will lead to trials, but because I hope that this will give the NAM once again the signal that it must help those people and ensure that the complaints disappear. If that happens, the political debate will end and we can all focus on matters other than the misery that the people of Groningen are experiencing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr Vos continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	I have to take stock, because I've already dealt with a lot of points. Together with GroenLinks, I have asked questions about the Council of Arbiters. It's said to be earthquake damage, but the law deals with mining and motion damage. In the documents of the Vereniging Eigen Huis and in other reports reference is made to C-damage. C-Shades are the result of soil decline and not mining. That's impossible for citizens in Groningen. It seems to me to be a good thing to keep to the legal text and not to talk about earthquake damage, but about damage to movement. I want to hear very clearly from the Minister that damage to movement also includes soil decline. I think it would be a good thing if, in the context of the reversal of the burden of proof, the NAM had to state why there was no earthquake damage, instead of showing that this was the case. The chairman of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, Dick Tommel, said yesterday that this position is extremely uneven. I do not think it is right for us here in The Hague to adopt the term 'earthquake damage'. I think we should stick to the term "movement damage" and assume that the damage was caused by the NAM, unless the opposite has been proven. Finally, I come to the independent counsellor, as the Minister has mentioned. We know, however, that this is the Groningen gas ombudsman set up by the Chamber. He has reported that there are 51% more complaints. What will the Minister do with this finding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	I have one question for Mr Vos. Mr Vos and the PvdA acknowledged that not all the questions surrounding the whole decision-making process on gas extraction have been answered in recent years. A lot of questions have not been answered. The Provincial States of Groningen have requested a parliamentary inquiry in a motion. They are not about that, of course, but they can make that request to the House of Representatives. I have already mentioned this in my contribution in the first term. How does Mr Vos view the possibility of a parliamentary survey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	A parliamentary survey is the hardest instrument available to the Court. We must be careful with the use of that instrument. It is intended to obtain information that we would not be able to obtain in any other way. I think there is no lack of information about the situation in Groningen. I think I can summarize that situation in two sentences: far too long too much gas has been extracted and that has led to far too heavy earthquakes, and for that reason many Groningers have suffered a lot of damage and sleep badly because of feelings of insecurity. That's what's going on. I do not need to conduct a parliamentary survey. I think we need to solve those problems. I think we should talk about that instead of staring at the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr Vos gives an adequate summary of the dossier, but that is not what I am asking for. A parliamentary survey will not look at the damage but at why it took so long for real action to be taken. Why did it take so long before the gas tap was turned off? These are questions to which we have not yet received any answers and to which a parliamentary inquiry could possibly answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	The OVV has reported on it extensively, just like others. We have also discussed it extensively. I can walk past that list now, but I don't think the chairman would approve. There is a reasonable degree of consensus and little uncertainty about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has proposed that the Research Council for Security should carry out further research. I support that, but it does not have to stand in the way of a parliamentary survey. Mr Vos pointed out that there is no lack of information, but the book De gascolony shows that there are incredibly many questions that have not yet been answered. I think the most crucial question is how it could happen in 2013 that 54 billion cube gas has been extracted more than ever while the nitrogen plants were off. These and other questions have not been answered. I would like to appeal to the Labour Party to support the PvdA colleagues in Groningen and to say that this parliamentary survey must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	What happened in 2013 was, of course, scandalous. That is what the Labour Party has already said. We also had a very intense exchange of views with the Chamber and the Cabinet. The Minister said in the Chamber that he was constantly informed and that he thought it wise to carry out those investigations. We have been very surprised as a Chamber and we have shown our disgust at this in order to be neatly formulated in all possible ways. There is no need for a parliamentary inquiry into this. This falls into the category "a little stupid." That's all I really need to say. What Mrs Dik says about that, I will leave it to her. In general, I think we should be careful with the instruments of the Chamber not to compete with each other in order to attract the electorate's attention, because those instruments are too valuable for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	I am very sorry that Mr Vos 2013 and the whole decision-making around it qualify as "a little stupid." I think there is a great deal of incomprehension, bewilderment, about the situation that occurred in 2013. That is what the Chamber has indeed expressed its opinion on. When I look back now, I find that the Groningers were actually on the sidelines in this gas game. That is why I think there is still a lot to investigate. Of course, we have to deal with our instruments carefully, but I believe that there have been parliamentary surveys on lesser subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'm really not okay with this. I said I thought it was outrageous. We really talked about this a long time ago. Mrs. Dik is pulling old cows out of the ditch. The idea that Groningers wouldn't be involved is really the biggest bullshit I've ever heard. My colleague Tjeerd van Dekken took me to Groningen about the day I was appointed MP to show me what was going on there. From that moment on, we have been calling the bell to make sure that something will change. Henk Nijboer was there too. I can assure you that the Groninger Guard, as I sometimes call them, so the Groninger people in our group, have an extremely good network in that area. They sit there every Friday with people at the table. Groningers have had a lot of participation in that process. What makes you think you're going to say that you're not, Mrs. Fat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	Short response, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	Nothing to the detriment of Members of Parliament at this time of the Labour Party, because she and the MPs of the other groups, myself too, all come to Groningen very often. Looking at the history of gas extraction, we will have to conclude with each other that it may have taken until 2012 before we finally looked at the interests of the Groningers. Until then, the interests of Exxon and Shell were dominant. Read the book The Gas Colony. That's what this is all about. I would like to see the bottom line on the decision-making procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	Recently, former Minister Verhagen of Economic Affairs called for more speed in transferring money to the construction companies. I then appealed to him on the social media that the mining under his reign continued. He was extremely upset about that and he also had a point. He said, when I was a minister, we didn't have a report from SodM stating that the extraction wasn't safe anymore. At the time when the SodM called on the authority in the Netherlands responsible for this task, the inspector-general, the national inspection officer, the cabinet took immediate action. The Christian Union always had that administrative care in the past. I would like this administrative responsibility to be respected here too. It has indeed been as it should be in the Netherlands. If it is then said afterwards 'it could have been better', I agree, but suggesting that not all the information that should be available is, in my view, unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. After lunch, around 2.15 p.m., we start voting. The order of business will then be followed. The debate then continued.
