ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the former Presidents of the First Chamber and the Steenkamp family to the Upper Chamber. I ask you all to stand up. On 8 January last, Piet Steenkamp, former senator for the Catholic People's Party and the Christian Democratic Appeal, died. He was a member of the First Chamber for almost 34 years. Eight years he was President in this house. With his unique ability to connect people and his tireless devotion to the bonum commune, he made a very great contribution to politics, not least to the creation of the CDA. Petrus Antonius Josephus Maria Steenkamp was born on 8 March 1925 in Uithoorn. After completing the gymnasium at Sint Ignatius College in Amsterdam, he studied economics at the Catholic Economic School in Tilburg. Here Mr Steenkamp obtained his PhD in 1951 on a dissertation entitled "The idea of business organisation in a Protestant circle." A remarkable choice at the time, for a Catholic. However, not in his opinion, as he had received from home out of a affection for those who disagreed. After his promotion, Mr Steenkamp became a board member of his father's Bacon and Conservenfabriek. Here he introduced a works council and advocated the appointment of labour commissioners. It gave him the nickname "Rooie Piet," a nickname he would later wear as a geuzenname. In 1960, Mr Steenkamp became a professor of social law at Eindhoven University of Technology. From 1966 he was professor of social law and social history here for 26 years. He was highly appreciated among the students and, according to his own words, experienced his happiest moments. In the late 1960s, after the Second Vatican Council, Mr Steenkamp was appointed President of the Pastoral Council of the Dutch Church Province as President of the Dutch Catholic Church on the renewal of the Dutch Catholic Church. He was inspired, among other things, by the teachings of the apostle Paul, Pope John XXIII, Thomas of Aquinas and the priest-social foreman Alfons Ariëns. Mr Steenkamp's political career began in the 1950s with a local department of the KVP. When in the 1960s the political dominance of Christian parties in Dutch politics threatened to decline, Mr Steenkamp joined the Group of Eighteen: a consultation on cooperation between the Anti-Revolutionary Party, the Christian-Historical Union and the Catholic People's Party. The process of unification was difficult and sometimes seemed doomed to fail, but it was Stone Camp that was always able to remind the three parties of what it was that bound them up and above their disputes. Thus he created a political tympanon for the three pillars. When the local divisions of the three parties eventually called for a merger, Mr Steenkamp received support from an unexpected angle. The day the three parties eventually merged, October 11, 1980, he called the most emotional moment of his life. His ability to lead complex discussions resulted in Mr Steenkamp being informed by the Biesheuvel cabinet in 1971. In 1982 he was also at the cradle of the third Van Agt cabinet. His example of doing so from this Chamber has been followed many times by others. Mr Steenkamp had an unmistakable political talent and saw it as his duty to put that talent at the service of the community: "If it calls you in common, it is as your own." His father also taught him the lesson: do something about politics, or politics will do something about you. In the First Chamber, Mr Steenkamp was Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Social Affairs Committees. He was known as a dynamic person, who was very systematic and efficient. A cigar that burns on both sides, he was also called. Piet Steenkamp was not someone who had a lot of patience for long theoretical discussions, but always sought a sound, substantive underpinning of positions. "Piet Steenkamp speaks, Piet Steenkamp fascinates," wrote De Gelderlander about him. However, when he was appointed First President in 1983, he was prevented from speaking. Because of a bomb threat by the Rote Armee Fraktion, his first announcement as President was that the room had to be evacuated. "A blazing beginning" was in the newspaper the next day. Legends of speech were fortunately enough and Mr Steenkamp constantly seized them to advocate the position of the First Chamber; a Chamber which, in his view, performs an essential task at the end of the legislative process. Steenkamp therefore strongly objected when the First Chamber in 1988 had to deal with a bill for the umpteenth time under pressure of time. The Chamber even had to come back for it on Christmas Day. However, he did not agree with the fact that the opposition members chose to stay away in a demonstrative manner. "As long as the First Chamber exists, she should take herself seriously," he said. In this context, Piet Steenkamp even sent a member of parliament out of the room when he was noisy at the maiden speech of a colleague. The last chamber meeting Piet Steenkamp attended fell on 18/19 May 1999, better known as the Night of Wiegel. For this occasion, Steenkamp had come to the Chamber with special transport, also to vote against the constitutional amendment for the introduction of the corrective referendum. Because no two-thirds majority was achieved, the rejection was always attributed to Hans Wiegel's vote against. But if Mr Steenkamp hadn't come special, the bill would have been passed. Last October, we looked back at 200 years of State-General and found that politics is adapting to the demands of time, step by step. However, the real political milestones are a select number of unique, driven politicians. Piet Steenkamp was one of them and we remember him today with the greatest respect. May this respect and its great merits for our parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I am happy to give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A former director of the National Information Service once said about Piet Steenkamp: "I wouldn't know anyone else who looked over the whole field of economics and politics as much as he did. He's an artist in politics. He wants to create something." In a nutshell this quote says a lot about Piet Steenkamp. He was a versatile man with an unprecedented desire for action. He was also an idealist with a practical breast that did not rest until the desired result had been achieved. Piet Steenkamp brought people together. His greatest creation, of course, was the CDA, for which he was inspiring, working horse and figurehead. According to his wife's report, he held 980 lectures in the 1970s before the merger of ARP, CHU and KVP took place in 1980. Against the age-spirit of polarization and depilation, he achieved his goal: a large and strong Christian-democratic movement with an important role in Dutch politics. For this alone, he will live on in memory, even outside the CDA. But Piet Steenkamp had so many more talents. He started his career as an entrepreneur in the family business, he was a professor in Eindhoven, he filled numerous administrative posts and advisory positions in church, society and business and he was of course a member of this Chamber for 34 years, of which almost 8 years as president. In short, Steenkamp was an omnivore who with self-knowledge often said no to a life as a full-time politician. He was at his best if he could keep several balls in the air at once. "Pete doesn't have time for free time," his wife once said. And indeed, he didn't like wasting his time. Many senator who entered the room a bit later on Tuesday morning, he greeted with a friendly: "good afternoon." As President of the Chamber, Steenkamp stood for greater openness and visibility. The First Chamber was allowed to profile itself more clearly, he found when he took office in 1983. He said the following: 'I think democracy lives in public. Publicity is the oxygen of democracy. So if such a Chamber stays in a corner and you never hear anything from that First Chamber, if just by government people it is said "Well the matter is decided, because the House of Representatives has spoken," then it simply cannot." I suspect, Madam President, that in recent years Piet Steenkamp has looked with approval at the unmistakably increased visibility of this Chamber. What drove him, as a man and in his work, was a firm belief that he experienced very intense and personal. He was also very open about that. "God is above all else for me," he once said. At the same time he translated that belief at his Stone Camps into everyday life, that is, very sober. The Bible, as he himself put it, was "not a cookbook" for him, but faith gave "vitamins for practical politics." That was Piet Steenkamp at his feet: head and heart together, thinker and doer at the same time. Madam President, With the death of Piet Steenkamp an end has come to a long and richly filled life, but that does not reduce the loss for family, party members and other relatives. I wish them a great deal of strength on behalf of the whole cabinet and many beautiful memories that offer solace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would ask you all to observe a minute's silence.
