ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Being accused wrongly is bad enough, but being wrongly accused, being arrested and imprisoned is much worse. In 2004, this happened to about 4,000 people. Ten years later, in 2014, it was already more than 14,000 people. In 2015, the line still goes up and we are at 17,000 people. For the State as a whole, the sum of 28 million is to be paid exclusively to people who have been unjustly arrested and imprisoned. The Netherlands is at the top of the wrong list with regard to unfair deprivation of liberty. In other countries, people are just invited to the police station to do their story. Apparently, in the Netherlands, you're first in handcuffs. To speak with Buruma, here we've come to find something normal that isn't normal. It is not just about the trust in the rule of law of these 17,000 people. These people have co-workers, neighbors, friends and family who all hear this story. As a result, too, the government is further reducing confidence in the rule of law. We shouldn't have that. I have the following questions. Does the Minister agree with me and the Dutch Association of Criminal Attorneys that the 28 million in damages is a waste of money and unnecessary? It's not the first time I've been standing here talking to the Justice Minister about unjustly arrested people. With former Minister Opstelten it was still crazy that the budget for bunches of flowers had to be raised. Now we are talking about 28 million people who have been unjustly arrested. What about the execution of my 2013 motion on releasing people on bail? That happens in a lot of countries around us. People can then continue to work, bring their children to school, just eat and sleep at home and talk to their lawyers. Much more frequent use could be made of it. That can make sure that these people, if they are accused, can still live on in a somewhat normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for putting this issue on the agenda. Mrs Van Tongeren is right that the number of requests for compensation granted has increased over the past year. On the other hand, the same figures from the Central Statistical Office also show that the total amount of compensation paid fell by almost 1 million compared to 2014. The total amount, as Mrs Van Tongeren also mentioned, is therefore lower than it was in 2014. The average level of remuneration has also decreased by around 20% compared to 2014. Over the last ten years, the average amount allocated has almost halved. This means that, as Mrs Van Tongeren says, there is a clear improvement in people's wrong detention in a number of areas. I agree, too, that we must try to prevent this. However, it does mean that compensation is currently being paid in particular for so-called short-term detentions. That's the insurance policy that takes place in the police investigation. I intend to do one thing. When we talk about the evaluation of the counsellor in the police interview, which we are currently working on and for which a proposal is before the Chamber, I will ask how it is possible that the number of insurance schemes has increased in recent years. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked a question about bail. As I have informed the Chamber, we are taking bail with us in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The issue of bail is a topical one, because there is something to be said for that. Moreover, there is the possibility of this in the law, but we do not make very little use of it. It's a matter of how we're gonna organize that. The point is that the bail only applies to pre-trial detention and is an alternative, but not to police insurance. It is true that we have to make bail, but we see a different element from what I am discussing with Mrs Van Tongeren today, namely the increase in police insurance fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	I am also concerned about the money, but I am primarily concerned about the people, in both cases. The motion in question dates from 2013. I'm glad the Minister will look into that in 2016, but I had hoped for a little faster action. The motion does not say anything about a new law, but calls for more frequent application with the College of Attorneys General. The Minister has now had two and a half years to do so. I would like to know how frequently the instrument has been used in recent years and what the Minister's aim is to apply it. Actually, I think it's a shame we're holding more people. It is nice that it is apparently a little shorter and therefore costs a little less money, but the amount of people over the years simply increases in a straight line. I don't hear the Minister saying anything that makes me think: oh, that rising line is turning. I would like a clear answer to the following questions. The first question is how much consultation there has been with the Attorney General. The second question is what the frequency in 2004 was, what it is now and what the Minister is aiming for. The third question is how to ensure that the budget of 28 million goes back to zero. In my group, we said madly that we should actually cut the 28 million in the core department. We think that might provide the financial incentive to get this done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	We can discuss that straightforward thought in the discussion of the 2017 budget; the last of this cabinet. With regard to bail, my predecessor spoke about the motion and brought it to the attention of Mrs Van Tongeren with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the incumbent magistrate. In the case-law, we are considering ways of promoting the use of this instrument, but as far as I know, this has not yet led to concrete initiatives. As far as I am concerned, we have taken the issue into account in modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to invite Mrs Van Tongeren to play an active role in this. There, the alternative to bail, as well as other alternatives to pre-trial detention, will be explicitly considered, because in recent years we have not been equally happy with the development of pre-trial detention in all areas. Let me sum up the facts: the provisional detention and the allowances paid for it fall, that is a good sign, but the compensation obtained at the time of insurance is not falling. That's what I'm gonna take in the evaluation councilman in police interrogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	So it is reassuring and moving forward. Since 2013, therefore, nothing has happened, although a lot of law firms are keen to apply it. It also reduces the appeal to legal aid, as the defendant can then travel to the lawyer himself instead of having to go to the police station where the suspect is detained. I do not understand why the Minister is quietly saying that he is taking it with him in an evaluation rather than that he is now going to work on this with the Attorney General and with the lawyers who would like to do so. We love pilots in the government. I invite this minister to now agree that there will be a pilot for the frequent use of bail with the law firms and suspects who are fit for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	I like Mrs Van Tongeren's ambition. At the same time, of course, you also see major problems with bail in countries where it is frequently used, for example the bounty hunters that are active in America. They are there because people who have been released on bail do not in all cases keep the agreements properly. The thought of doing this tomorrow goes too far for me, but I am sure that I have already done so in order to continue the discussion with the Public Prosecutor. However, I think it is particularly important that we include all the administrative measures we need to ensure that bail is applied successfully in the debate with the Court on the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would very much like to invite Mrs Van Tongeren to make an active contribution to that debate.
