ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u1	Seven speakers have spoken before this debate. There will also be a very happy event, namely a maiden speech. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Smaling, who has requested ten minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to be the appetizer of a maiden speech. A maiden speech is always a special event, which we will undoubtedly enjoy. We are discussing a fine subject today. We have worked for years to bring about something that we may well achieve today. The aviation sector and Schiphol are of great importance to the Netherlands; that is as ready as a cube. From Schiphol, our country is connected to almost all destinations in the world thanks to the large network of KLM and Skyteam, to which it belongs. This means that we have a unique airport, especially in view of the size of our country, which directly and indirectly creates a lot of jobs. The SP therefore supports the importance of Schiphol, although we are concerned about employment in terms of the race to the bottom that is taking place in terms of working conditions. The handling, the security; everything is outsourced. The workload per traveller is only increasing. At the same time, the new boss will soon be able to meet another generous salary, is our fear. How does the Secretary of State view this? My group recognises the benefits of the legislative proposal before us, which creates a new system of standards and enforcement for Schiphol, which is more transparent and more explainable to citizens. Rules for strictly preferential use of jobs in the Schiphol airport decision make it clearer for residents why a job is being used at a given time or not. Is there enough regulation in communication with local residents, or are improvements still possible? In the written input, the SP asked for extra attention to be paid to the situation surrounding the Aalsmeerbaan. When using this job, relatively many people experience nuisance. The Secretary of State states that this is to be recognised and that the Aalsmeer job is not a preferred job for this reason. However, this does not mean that this job will no longer be able to handle flights if Schiphol continues to grow. In fact, much of Schiphol's growth will be facilitated by the Aalsmeer orbit, although this is not a preferred job. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Furthermore, the law still has to prove itself. Much depends on the enforcement capacity of the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT), which leaves a lot to be desired on other routes. We just talked about the Fyra. That is what we shall be discussing in the future. It was also found that there was a lack of capacity at the ILT. Is the Secretary of State not afraid that the capacity in this case may also be below par? Are there enough aviation specialists at the ILT? The Schiphol Environment Council has yet to prove itself, but perhaps the most important thing is to see whether it is an improvement for residents and whether legal certainty is in order. For this to happen, case law needs to be built. I'm sure we can do that. I flew in the cockpit of a Fokker on Monday as part of a working visit. A hard wind required the use of the Oostbaan, which makes you fly across Amsterdam, which is quite spectacular if you are on that plane, but less if you live downstairs. The complaints were therefore not of the air. There was something about that yesterday in Het Parool. Our request would be to review the law on these issues three years after entry into force, and then perhaps to revise it on the basis of case law, but Mrs Visser was just ahead of me with an amendment that is very similar. If that's the case, I'd like to stand under her, but we'll see about that. The bill also looks beyond 2020 and sets out a directive on how possible growth at Schiphol Airport should relate to environmental progress under a 50/50 principle. If we were to do so, it would seem to my group to be completely unnecessary to extend Lelystad. It is greatly underestimated how Lelystad Schiphol can fly into the wheels, and the danger of collisions with birds is, in our opinion, obscured. Many birds fly low between the edge lakes and the Oostvaardersplassen. The Secretary of State remembers that because of her previous job. Besides, no airline wants to go to Lelystad. So the advice is: delete Lelystad if you write another look ahead in the law. A problem identified by the SP Group is the desire to develop new residential areas relatively close to Schiphol. Here the government itself organises the complainants of tomorrow, because in the beautiful brochures of the project developers the emphasis is on rustic living in the polder and not on the nuisance of Schiphol. The SP therefore does not agree with the policy that small-scale exemptions can add new homes to an area experiencing nuisance from Schiphol. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this. In addition, the SP recognises the need to make aviation much more sustainable in the coming years. Does the Secretary of State also see the importance of this? What ambitions does she have to be able to take significant steps? The latest planes have become much quieter. These silent planes also consume less kerosene. We see that there is a certain amount of effort to phase out aircraft that cause a great deal of noise. The number of most noisy devices at Schiphol Airport is decreasing, but is it still possible to take larger steps? Are there any other issues that could encourage airlines to switch to quieter aircraft? For example, is the surcharge that currently applies to aviation fees for the most noisy aircraft sufficient to allow such aircraft to be phased out quickly? Is there also a positive incentive possible, for example a discount for aircraft in the quietest category? The aerospace industry is also developing initiatives to enable a switch to biokerosin. The KLM is in the forefront of this. What role does the Secretary of State see for the government to allow a sector which is still fully dependent on fossil fuel to switch to more environmentally friendly alternatives? Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to play a leading role in this as the Netherlands? Finally, the cube of varia. Just like the Secretary of State always does, I'll tell you which block is on the table. The United Nations Aviation Department, the ICAO, has established binding rules on aircraft emissions. You can always think it's too little, but it's the first time this has happened. According to the Secretary of State, is it enough? And does the aviation sector actually deliver now, where he managed to bypass the climate summit? If you compare it, the sector actually comes to the level that you can say has been achieved in Paris for other sectors. Furthermore, as far as the SP Group is concerned, it is high time the Single European Sky was introduced. This can help to reduce emissions, because aircraft no longer need to fly. Unfortunately, we see that this is still not being implemented, because England and Spain are arguing about Gibraltar. Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of forcing a breakthrough into this? That would also be a good result for the European Presidency. So is it already on the Secretary of State's to-do list to speak to Commissioner Bulc? If not, couldn't that be a nice ambition? In this context, I am curious to see what the Secretary of State's further ambitions in the field of aviation are. This term of office shall not exceed one year. Is the Secretary of State gonna look after the store or does she have any big plans? Knowing her a little bit is more the latter than the first, but I like to hear where to look. I'm thinking of pilots who have to pay to make flight hours instead of getting paid. It can't be. This should be sufficient reason to keep Ryanair out of the door, for example. Air carriers from the Gulf States compete hard with KLM, with state aid. We're not okay with that either. In the Gulf States, hub functions are also at risk, which undermine the function of Schiphol. This is more in the ordinary sphere of competition, but the Secretary of State undoubtedly has ideas about it. A look at 2020 is not a view; 2020 is no longer that far. You can bite all the way into maintaining Schiphol as it is and say: that's how we keep it in the current force field. However, for shorter distances in particular, you can also use cleaner HSL transport in the future, despite all the Fyra discussions we are having here. You can then focus on Schiphol for the future to have enough slots for the long distance. Because the maximum flight times also increase, up to almost 18,000 to 20,000 kilometers, without stopping and refueling. Soon the passengers will only wave to Schiphol Airport when they fly from Dubai to Los Angeles. And we all do not wish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u3	Now a happy moment: a maiden speech from a fresh colleague. Mrs Belhaj, you have the floor. The members have been through so many maiden speeches, I don't have to tell them not to interrupt you. I wish you every success. You have requested 15 minutes' speaking time. We're gonna have a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. I see it as a privilege to be a member of the House of Representatives and, as a D66 Chamber member, to engage in the debate with you all, to make changes and achieve results for the Netherlands. I have been a member and active member of D66 for 15 years and stand for the social-liberal values of my party. For eight years I have done my job as a local representative in Rotterdam politics as group chairman with great love. It's the city where I still live, but also the city where I've been through a lot. In Rotterdam I also developed politically. In Rotterdam I became a member of D66 and in 2001 there was the rise of Pim Fortuyn. At that time, I took part in the public debate on Islam and integration. As a child of migrant workers and as a child of Dutch society, I was raised with the idea that integration is the way to become part of this Dutch society. I've always hated the etching of people that their identity would only consist of their origins. I've always hated it. I too am sometimes stigmatized for my origins. 'Cause I'm from Harderwijk. I was raised with the idea that developing yourself as a human is the most important thing. Because of the lack of the right to free choices, not every person in the Netherlands still feels the freedom to be themselves. Every day boys and girls have discussions with their parents about the will to be free, so that they can be part of this Dutch society in their own way. I believe in the power of the debate. This debate can be conducted at the sharpest of the cuts. Without friction, there is no shine. I'd rather know, through debate, what anyone thinks, than that self-censorship prevails. As far as I am concerned, this debate ultimately leads to a better result and a better understanding of each other. We should not allow the debate to be claimed by extremes, because that does not lead to a better discussion or a better understanding. Nor does it make people feel safe to develop and ask all kinds of questions. The right to be free as a human being, the right to free partner choice and the right to make all my choices in freedom are an essential part of my DNA. These individual freedoms are the main reason for me to call myself liberal. To claim the liberal as merely a market-economic concept is therefore a defect. I have been a security spokesperson in Rotterdam for eight years. Security and feeling safe are essential things for each of us. The pursuit of a safe environment for all is also the goal of the Defense Department. I think it is a privilege to be a spokesperson for defence in the House of Representatives and to be able to work for peace and security in this way. I'm also a spokesperson infrastructure. Road accidents are still the main cause of death among young people. Road safety also has my particular attention, because every dead person in traffic, young or old, is one too many. Every year 500 people die in traffic and 20,000 are injured. I want to do everything I can to reduce the number of road casualties. It is typically Dutch to talk about the weather. Then the conversation comes to the traffic jams at the Rottepolderplein or the Terbregseplein and that because of the hassle on the track it was once again chaos on Utrecht Centraal. Not often politics is closer to the Dutch than on Monday morning at 8.25 pm. Everyone then has an opinion on the infrastructure. Let us take advantage of that! No subject other than accessibility lends itself so well to participation and influence from the country. People rightfully want to have a direct influence on that. I am happy to commit myself to this. I am grateful to many people, like my family, but also my friends and teachers, who have encouraged me in my life to strive every day to develop myself, who have supported me and helped me to continue believing in myself and never to give up. I would also like to thank those who have taken the trouble to be firm on the content of the debate with me. After all, that made me a more liberal and better-developed person. I now turn to the substantive debate we are having today on the new system of standards and enforcement for Schiphol Airport. With the introduction of the new Schiphol standards and enforcement system, a new chapter begins in the ongoing search for the balance between growth of our national airport and its impact on the environment. This discussion will not end with regard to D66. We must continue to look for ways in which we can sustainably grow this important engine of our economy. Sustainable growth of Schiphol represents three things for our group. Sustainable growth has continued to invest in innovations to minimise nuisances for residents, such as quieter aircraft or quieter landing techniques. Sustainable growth is taking responsibility for health by closely monitoring the air quality around Schiphol and working on clean air for people. And sustainable growth is a matter of creating acceptance by communicating clearly, fairly and proactively about what is happening, so that the discussion can be conducted on the basis of facts. My question is therefore: does the Secretary of State share D66's view that these are important starting points for the discussion on the balance between flying and living? D66 notes that the creation of the new system has not gone ice over one night. D66 has been positively critical of this system and will continue to maintain that critical attitude. Therefore, D66 attaches great importance to monitoring these effects, to proper enforcement when rules and standards are exceeded and to a strong involvement of this Chamber, so that action can be taken if the system does not deliver. On one point, I would like to explicitly question the Secretary of State. There is an operational margin in job use rules to ensure, in brackets, a certain degree of flexibility. Does this margin now fall within or outside the framework of the new rules? In addition, D66 wants the State Secretary's undertaking that only occasional and non-structural use of this margin is made. Then I'll come to communications to the area. I would like to focus on an aspect in which I have a great deal of confidence, namely a clear, fair and proactive provision of information. Residents simply need to know where they stand. That's what Schiphol and the government owe the people and neighbors. D66 says: let the introduction of this new system go hand in hand with a modern and accessible way of communicating between government and citizens and between businesses and citizens. Let us think not only politically, but also service-orientedly. D66 therefore advocates a modern social media strategy, with a core application for smartphones and tablets. In doing so, residents have real-time access to the used air routes and runways and other information relevant to them. A number of websites already provide information, but that is not really of this time anymore. D66 therefore wants an app with which residents are proactively notified and in which it is indicated with reasons if circumstances lead to a deviation or departure from the agreements, standards and other matters made. We also attach importance to the fact that residents can easily report to authorities through this app when they experience disproportionate discomfort, so that complaints can be dealt with quickly and seriously. I forgot to mention that my speech lasts about three hours, so why don't you just sit back and relax for a while; I'm almost there. Is the Secretary of State prepared to go along with her time and add butter to the fish when she indicates that it is her job to reduce complexity and increase insight? I'm going into health now. The Secretary of State states that the new system has no effect on the air quality around Schiphol. Can she explain that to us again this evening? D66 attaches great importance to the responsibility of the government to put people's health at the centre. Of course, this is not just about air quality, but certainly also about noise from flying. To structurally ensure that the importance of health is an integral part of the debate on the Environment Council, D66 advocates adding an additional seat for a medical expert or a representative of the RIVM, for example. For example, we are sure that the importance of people's health is safeguarded in one and the same way as the other interests represented at the table. With the importance of health, I close for now. I look forward to the clear and complete answer that has been used by the Secretary of State; at least I have been told that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u5	Yeah, that's right. Thank you very much, that was a nice story. Time has flown by, especially given that it took you three hours. May I be the first to congratulate you? That's the spirit. After that, others might want to do the same. I'm going to suspend for a moment to give them the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. Before that, I must say that in this debate I am trying to replace my colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren, who normally does these things. I must therefore also say, unfortunately, that I must leave the debate after my first term, with apologies to the Secretary of State. That was no different with the size of our group, but I'm sure that's going to work out in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u7	You're saying something about the maiden speech, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u8	You're right. For my part, I would like to congratulate Mrs Belhaj on her maiden speech. It was a personal story. I know Mrs Belhaj from a further past, in Rotterdam, so some elements of it were very familiar to me. I remember that in the Rotterdam Council we have experienced from various sides the difficult and sometimes very interesting discussions about, among other things, the phenomenon of integration. In that we were always on the same side. Compliments of the maiden speech. In 2015, Schiphol Airport was a record year. Over 58 million people found their destination through Amsterdam Airport. More than 451,000 flight movements took place. But when it comes to Schiphol itself, air traffic continues to grow enormously at Schiphol Airport, up to 875,000 flight movements somewhere between 2020 and 2050. That's almost a double. You'll only live nearby, with noise pollution day and night, a climate impact of high temperature and the ultra-fine dust from jet engines that shortens your life by a few months to a year. GroenLinks questions the way local residents, local administrators and other stakeholders are allowed to talk at the Alders table. Looks like whoever doesn't nod with it has pretty soon finished talking. As a blow to the head, this consultation is also dismissed by Schipholtopman Nijhuis in Het Financieele Dagblad of 5 January this year as a "expanded polder culture." It does not appear that the summit of Schiphol Airport can move around in the nuisance experienced by thousands of residents, the sleepless nights and the health problems. Otherwise there would be no call for the removal of restrictions on night flights. There is every reason not to grow air traffic at Schiphol Airport, but to limit it. But the opposite is about to happen. Through a complex system of preferential job use, growth space is created, or perhaps forced. Realize the consequences: Schiphol is already causing sky-torn nuisance in the current circumstances, and that is only getting worse in the coming years. Pre-referenced job use, if we understand it correctly, is ultimately no different than a kind of netting scheme where the local peak load is eliminated on average. What is ultimately left of the original principle that growth is possible, provided that the environment is not taxed more heavily than a fixed benchmark of, as far as I understand, 1990? Following the proposal, should you not set specific standards for each job individually in order to avoid too coarsely sealing and create a real incentive to really strictly preferential flying? This method is already being worked on. There are already noise overruns, while the maximum number of flight movements is still a long way from being reached. I don't think that's appropriate. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Even though I'm not physically present at the answer, we'll follow her very closely. Aviation is one of the major polluters. Air transport accounts for as much as 10% of the climate change caused by the Netherlands. Climate change, as we promised in Paris, would be combated by firm measures. But the growth aspirations of the aviation sector are great. So big, that they soon fully compensate for the already not too great effect of quieter and cleaner aircraft. This month it was announced that it is unlikely that the European target will be met to produce 2 million tonnes of biofuel for civil aviation annually from 2020. Sustainable fuel sounds like future music. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider reintroducing the ticket tax? There is nothing that stands in the way of that and our neighbours Belgium and Germany know that tax by now. I'd like to get a reaction to that. The Paris climate agreement did not make explicit agreements on aviation. The ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation must provide for this lack. Yesterday an agreement was reached on future aircraft emissions. In other words, about 4% of CO2 efficiency should be improved between now and 2023. If we oppose the growth ambitions that not only exist here but in many countries in the world, then we must note that the net emissions of CO2 from aviation are rising in the world and are not falling. GroenLinks believes that this bill is too strongly motivated by the desire to further increase Schiphol and thus the number of flight movements. It takes away the incentive to use all possible forms of mobility wisely. Many flight movements are relatively short distances, for which a good European high-speed rail network is an excellent alternative. However, competition with aviation is difficult, because international aviation is being pampered on all sides. No excise duty is levied on kerosene and airline tickets are exempt from VAT. Earlier, GroenLinks called for work to be done on the desulphurisation of kerosene in the fight against ultra-fine dust, but that too has been put on the long track. In order to make the high-speed rail an interesting competitor of aviation, it is necessary not only to adapt that rail network but also to provide a level playing field. Put an end to subsidising aviation. Kerosin is still not taxed, airline tickets are still not subject to VAT, and despite recent ICAO agreements, there is no clear pricing mechanism for the CO emitted by aircraft. GroenLinks calls on the cabinet to make an international effort to this end. We have a number of questions about this bill. 1. Can the Secretary of State review the original agreements of the Alderstable one by one and show that these agreements are actually being met? 2. Is there an adequate network for measuring noise levels, CO emissions and ultra-fine dust emissions in a future system? 3. GroenLinks has previously asked to map the effects of ultra-fine dust around Schiphol. What is the state of play? 4. Is the Secretary of State prepared to provide long-term planning for the way in which the Netherlands eventually becomes fossil-free? Wouldn't it be obvious that the aviation sector will be the first to make serious work of this? With a growing Schiphol Airport and adapted standards and an appropriate enforcement system, there is also a growing need to work seriously on reducing nuisances for residents in other ways. According to GroenLinks, it is a missed chance that this crucial element of the bill is missing. We are not convinced that this bill will contribute to achieving a balanced situation in which not only businesses are given room, but also to people living around, nature and the environment. This bill gives the aviation sector ample scope for action. According to GroenLinks, this is pre-sorting on an emergency landing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u9	Mr. Chairman. It is a very difficult problem that we are discussing here. First of all, we would like to congratulate all the participants in this debate. I mean not the people in this Chamber, but the people in the Netherlands. There are a lot of people living around Schiphol, so you notice very well that there are many planes flying. Yet there is also understanding among those people that there has to be a Schiphol Airport and that Schiphol Airport still needs to grow. Schiphol on the other hand, which we all want to see growing, is doing its best to grow in a way that affects as few people as possible. I think this is very handsome of all the partners around the table. Schiphol is very low, especially for Limburg's concepts. Before a plane gets over the inhabited world, it's a lot of trouble. Today we are discussing the law that will finally improve the system of standards and enforcement around Schiphol. We're going to record things that we're actually doing right now. My group is very pleased with this. The process of achieving this has taken quite a long time. This has to do with the complexity. This has been discussed since 2008, while it was already clear that the old system of standards and enforcement was bankrupt. The fact that it took so long has made sure that there is now what is now. Schiphol and also the KLM I mention her want to fly in this plane. Mr Smaling opened his speech by naming the importance of the hub function and the network connection of Schiphol. We want Schiphol to expand. On the one hand, we want this extension of network quality and as short a transition period as possible, which is expected to provide more prosperity and more employment on the other hand, to preserve the viability of the inhabitants and the municipalities. This has to do with air quality and the number of decibels, but also with what you can and can no longer build in certain municipalities. The inhabitants want to maintain viability and, ultimately, the Alders agreement at the Alders table, chaired by Mr A., has been signed, in which a compromise has been established. Provinces and municipalities also want to build. They have also been given the task of meeting the housing needs in that region in the future, as well as taking into account the quality of life and the health aspects. In short, here is a mix of interests in a strongly changing environment. The Schiphol Environment Council has a very important task. The Secretary of State will have to provide guidance on this. The Chamber will follow her closely. In the end, it is a good thing to say so, too. There must be no misunderstanding about that. I say this particularly in the direction of the Environment Council and not so much to the Secretary of State. The position of Aalsmeer and Uithoorn requires extra attention. The problem that arises there is that the previewed forecasts at the time of the Alders Agreement in 2010 are no longer consistent with reality. The municipalities have agreed to these forecasts. They have said: we understand that Schiphol needs it and we agree with that. The figures we have presented over the past year are far above that. Let me give you an example. For the Aalsmeerbaan, which they suffer most from, they have agreed to 39 000 startings a year. In the meantime, it has been found that there are 64,000. That's 25,000 more start-ups than they've agreed to. This is actually a completely different situation. In addition, due to the new start-up procedures, the noise load is more severe in that area. The number of landings has dropped a little, but landings are less marked by the Continuous Descent Approach, the so-called CDA descent. This unfair distribution is also due to the fact that the Aalsmeerbaan no longer receives a fair share of the increase, but a heavier share. 40% of the total increase in the number of flights goes to the Aalsmeerbaan and 50% of the growth in the number of take-offs also goes to the Aalsmeerbaan. The cores Aalsmeer and Uithoorn indicate that they stand for the signature they signed at the time: "Yes, we too do not want to get out of it. We also see the importance of Schiphol." But they do expect Schiphol and the Ministry to comply with those agreements. If this is not possible for some reason, there will of course be consequences. Everyone also agrees that preference should be given to flying. Preference means that there is a difference between jobs. However, the question of what is preferential flying and the question of when a flight goes from one job to another seems to differ. You hear in Uithoorn and Aalsmeer a very different opinion about what preferential flying is than what we see happening at Schiphol Airport. If the A runway, the preferential runway, is not yet full, you would expect all flights that can still reach it to land or take off via that runway. However, you can see that if a job threatens to be full, half of the number of flights to a B runway goes and the other half to the A runway. As a result, there are still more flights on a non-discriminatory runway. Has the Aalsmeer also become a preferential job after the Kaagbaan and the Polderbaan? That is actually the question, because if it is, then that is a completely different reality from the agreement that was made in 2010. Why does the preferential use of jobs not provide a solution for this? Why does it go wrong and doesn't it offer the solution we expected? It was promised that more take-off experiments would be organised, e.g. route adjustments. Why wasn't there an investigation into what was possible with that? The building barriers for Uithoorn and Aalsmeer are great; in my introduction I said something about it. The vitality is, of course, under pressure because of the occasional emptying of a building. As in other villages and cities, there is sometimes an empty building, a house or a school, but Uithoorn and Aalsmeer are not allowed to do anything new in these places. We are not concerned that you are allowed to build entire new buildings just next to a runway, because of course that is not possible. We don't want Schiphol getting new complainants. If a building falls empty in the middle of a city or village, it becomes an ugly zit. A municipality must be able to do something about this, and that is why we must give these municipalities the confidence that they can resolve it properly, without creating new complainants. Why can we trust them? We can trust them because they signed the Alders agreement. The CDA has some other questions. What is the status of the consultation with the whole region on housing construction? Especially the transformation of existing buildings into housing has been stuck for a long time. This also plays outside Aalsmeer and Uithoorn. How are we doing on the North/South line of Schiphol? That would be a great boost for the accessibility of Schiphol. We also saw that D66, D66 Amsterdam, wants to look again at how we can do that for as little money as possible. It's got to go on. What's the Secretary of State's position on that? The first concepts of the LIB, the Airport Classification Decision, circulate here and there. We can imagine that altitude restrictions will be introduced around Schiphol. High-rise construction at an airport isn't always smart. In other words, I understand why you don't just put an apartment in front of a runway. Is it also true that the height of trees is prescribed and that even the maximum height of masts of sailing ships within the LIB is prescribed? Isn't that a little too far? In addition, the Ringvaart van de Haarlemmermeer is part of the so-called Standing mast route. Yeah, it exists. The Staandemast route is often old ships that cannot lower their mast. Those sailing ships can potentially pass through, but is it true that this legislation does not allow this to be the case anymore? Is it true that we get a break there on the Staandemastroute? I come to my last question. The Alders Agreement agreed that after 2020 the 50/50 or 50/50 approach would be applied, benefiting 50% of the environmental gains achieved by the aviation sector at Schiphol Airport and 50% of the environment. This is a remarkable phenomenon, which we have not yet come across elsewhere. We actually love it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to push for such a 50/50 or 50/50 approach to be applied in other areas, such as road congestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Aviation Act in connection with the introduction of a new system of standards and enforcement for Schiphol Airport and some other amendments: I think that the Turks, and also the Gulf States, are laughing at this when they see and hear it all. That's where the airports are growing incredibly fast. We may lose a whole part of our hub function to Turkey and also to the Gulf States. There they are not hindered and hindered, by virtually no one, and receive all the support of the State. Schiphol and big boys like the KLM, who form a Siamese twin together with Schiphol, are going to have a very difficult time in our country. Mind you, we also consider residents, as everyone here does. There's no one who doesn't want to account for residents. But we have to leave the church in the middle. When you go to live in the country, you just know that you often find a fly in the soup, and you just know that you smell stool and urine, because you live in the country, and those are the disadvantages. That's how you know that when you go to live at an airport, you smell kerosene every now and then and you hear an airplane and you see it. Despite the fact that aircraft are becoming more and more economical and quiet, there will always be a certain amount of nuisance. You've got it everywhere. Wherever you're gonna live, you've got some kind of nuisance. Schiphol Airport has been there for a long time, so you know damn well that if you go to live there, you'll get it. We must leave the church in the middle. I would ask the Secretary of State to take Schiphol into account in all decisions as a mainport of national interest; knowing the Secretary of State, she will do the same. I am not only talking about financial interests, also for the State as a shareholder, but also about socio-economic and social interests. Together with KLM, Schiphol is the largest private employer. We will have other debates on this which I have requested and which will take place shortly. The PVV wants Schiphol to grow to a maximum capacity of 600,000 flight movements, as Mr Nijhuis himself once pointed out to me. Now there's an obstacle at 510,000, 500,000. Once upon a time, from the terrible Alders chord, some former ministers were better off behind the geraniums than doing things that are bad for our country, 500,000 flight movements. What's the story with that? Even those 500,000 flight movements will not be made if there is no permanent use of 2+2 runways, i.e. two runways; now it is 1+1 runway use, take-off and landing. That is what experts really say on the subject, so I say this on their behalf. The strange thing is: I have regularly tabled motions, and they are simply rejected by the Chamber. The Chamber does not seem to realize that these motions need to be adopted in order to put some pressure on the government. If the MPs heard those experts, they would see it. Without the use of 2+2 runways, we are not going to make it, nor are the 500,000 flight movements going to make it. Can the Secretary of State promise me something like that? Then I won't have to file another motion. Here's what I'm wondering. Suppose, for the third time, I submit such a motion and it is rejected again, how will the Chamber justify that they have frustrated it for years when there is a request from the experts and not from the Member Graus of the PVV? I think that's a very strange case. I wouldn't want to go on too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u11	Those are fine words, but there will be another interruption by Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u12	It is always very easy to call an expert in any debate. I think we have about 13 to 20 experts and reports here for each debate that we can call upon. Let's take an expert as the president-director of Schiphol, Mr. Nijhuis. He says: I can just get out of my way with the growth agreed at the Alders table until 2020, that does not need to be adjusted. Isn't that the expert pur sang we should be calling on? The boss of Schiphol says he can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u13	During the round table or the hearing, if you like, many people have said that we really need to go to 2+2. Mr. Nijhuis polders himself even a bit. He thinks, "I've already got that." He wants to remain on speaking terms with everyone and is not entirely independent. I have been surprised how Schiphol has kept to me as a Member of Parliament around this debate. I've been really surprised about that. I made that statement today to an employee of Schiphol. As a Member of Parliament, I really had to pull out: how are you in it? Normally, Schiphol will have to tell us what it wants. So you can see that Mr Nijhuis himself is in trouble, partly because of the Alders agreement. But I have heard independent experts who have said what I have just said. I'm not gonna repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u14	This country is blessed with many professors. We can all find a professor who we then label as an independent expert and then say: that is what the independent expert says. So we all have some professors in the back pocket. So much for science. The point here is that the boss of Schiphol says: I can do very well with this. Then we have just made a decision about Eindhoven. We make a decision about Lelystad, which will become operational from 2018. Once again, you can shake off an expert, but the person responsible for a responsible policy at Schiphol says to us, as a representative of the people, that I can do very well with this. That's what he says in the newspaper and he says in hearings in the House of Representatives, so let's just focus on that and not get someone out of the bag who would agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u15	Now it's starting to get a little weird, because I haven't been there, and I haven't invited people either. That's what you and your party have done. People invited by the Chamber have said so. They weren't invited by me. So I think it's kind of a weird thing. I'm not inviting anyone. Furthermore, I am not present at that hearing. I hear Mr Monasch now shouting that I should have come, but that is not the point. I'll catch what's in there. Of course, my associate and I followed that hearing. There are many points that I have tabled as a motion for a resolution. Those are the people you picked out yourself. I didn't. You're taking down your own experts now. I think that's very funny. It is almost carnavalesk, to stay in Limburg terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u16	Well, that doesn't mean anything to me. Mr Monasch very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u17	Yes, finally, once again, you are not even there and you do not even want to accept that the person responsible for the tent, who has to ensure that there are good grades, also for the Dutch state, says: I can do very well with this, especially because you as representatives of the people are moving aircraft movements to Eindhoven and Lelystad. You're in a booth somewhere, you're listening to a policy officer, and you say, "I'm not doing anything with it."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u18	You mean Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u19	I listened in on my own. What Mr Monasch is saying is bullshit. In a hearing I used it sometimes, if I did not have time to hear enough actors and to prepare for a particular debate. Aviation has been part of my portfolio for years. I put a lot of work into that, along with my policy officer. I believe that I am the only MP who has a policy officer who is also a pilot and who is also from aviation. That's not much to say. We spend a great deal of time in aviation in my group. But at a time when I have heard and spoken to all these people and I have been making motions for years on what those people have said, I do not have to sit there again like a bumper car for bacon and beans. I already knew everything. What's the point of that? I've been dealing with other things. But I do like it, Mr President, and it is also nice for the minutesists, that the Chamber invites experts who are then taken out of this, even though I did not do it. I think that's very funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u20	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u21	Well, actually, I was about to finish a little bit, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u22	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u23	As I have just said, Schiphol must be able to grow to that maximum capacity of 600,000 flight movements. Schiphol should be and remain one of the world's leading players and remain competitive against the increasing growth of airports within the Gulf States and in Turkey, which threaten to take away the hub function of Schiphol. In other places, these rules of nonsense do not apply. They have nothing to do with this nonsense. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I have adopted a motion on an aviation vision and an aviation plan that is competitive and future-proof. How's that going? That motion was supported by almost all parties. I'd like to hear what's going on, because that's also important. I leaned towards voting against it. I had that tendency. But after discussions with the various actors, those directly involved, my group may, as a second best, tend to vote in favour. I shall, of course, discuss this in my group next Tuesday. I will advise my group to vote in favour because this amendment to the Aviation Act will help to ensure that steps are taken towards the airport traffic decision. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? Is it true that it will be a fronting procedure for the Chamber, so that the Chamber will have a front hanging and then any disadvantages for Schiphol can still ride out? If I can get a commitment on this, I am very grateful to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u24	This was your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u25	For now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u26	I wonder where Mr Graus gets his limit of 600,000. According to the figures, it has to go to 850,000. I would like to hear whether Mr Graus also wishes to go on to 850,000. Why do I not hear Mr Graus in this whole debate about Henk and Ingrid, who want to live pleasantly in Hoofddorp and Almere, but who will be exposed to all kinds of fine dust if we let everything go uninhibited? I am also in favour of responsible growth, but when I listen to Mr Graus, he says: all these rules on the side, let them get asthma, let them get it stuffy, let them experience noise. Are Henk and Ingrid suddenly no longer participating or does Mr Graus have a bit of a responsible story for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u27	I think Mr Monasch has just gone to get a stuffed cake, because I started on that subject. I started my story by saying that I assume that the Secretary of State has the best interests of the locals. I looked at her, I even had eye contact with her. I just said that the moment you live near Schiphol, you'll always smell kerosene and always hear planes, no matter how quiet and economical they get. We want to work for Henk and Ingrid as well as Fatima and Ahmed, that doesn't matter. That's the first thing I asked. The very first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u28	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u29	No, Mr President, I have been asked another question. He asked me where I got those 600,000 flight movements. That comes from Mr. Nijhuis, the great man of Schiphol. In the meantime, it may have gone over six months or a year, but he himself said that 600,000 flight movements are about the maximum capacity. I just really got that from the source: Nijhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u30	It's getting more interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u31	And you just called him an expert!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u32	No, Mr Monasch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u33	It's getting more interesting. At 500,000 flight movements until 2020, Mr Nijhuis is not an expert, he knows nothing about it and there are other independent experts. But at 600,000, Graus suddenly pulls something else out of his hat, and Nijhuis is the expert. But my question is as follows. You just said get rid of all the bullshit rules. But those rules just tell us to be careful with particulate matter and noise pollution. So what is it: get rid of all these rules or stand up for the interests of all those people there, to whom luckily you now belong Fatima and Ahmed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u34	I don't have a ministry with hundreds of officials. That's why I put a lot of things on the Secretary of State's plate. I know her, and I know she's keeping a close eye on that. That is what I started my speech on. What I do not think is decent about Mr Monásch, or Mr Monasch, I must say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u35	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u36	What I do not think is right about Mr Monasch is the following. He suggests here that Nijhuis is the expert and I say that there are professors like those in the round table. I have always placed Mr. Nijhuis as the great man of Schiphol, the director of Schiphol. But I never put him up as an expert. You did. If he says 600,000 is Schiphol's maximum capacity, I'll just say it here. You're asking me where I got that. So I say, the source of Nijhuis. But you suddenly come up with that "expert." You yell something yourself and then you put it on the plate with me. But you came up with that, didn't you? Not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u37	You mean Mr Monasch. I give the floor to Mr Monasch to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u38	It's me. There may also be independent experts who call the number 700,000, but they do not count. What you're doing is weird and you should be a little more consistent. You can't get rid of the boss of Schiphol because you have other independent experts, and then quote him as a specialist at the next standard. However, what we are talking about here is much more important than what you cannot say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u39	Mr Graus cannot say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u40	I will tell Mr Graus through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u41	It's Gra-uz. I have Spanish ancestors. He gets it to Graus, but it's Gra-uz. You have to put it on his Spanish. We're called Monasch and Gra-uz.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u42	It's Monásch, but I'm fine with Monasch. Mr. Gra-uz, listen to me. You say, "Go fly, go fly, go fly, and get out with all those rules." After that, however, you are suddenly very concerned and put these concerns on the sign of the Secretary of State. It's two-and-a-half. Come on, be a sport. You can't have everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u43	That's right. But the funny thing is that I explained why Mr Nijhuis is having difficulty with the 500,000 flight movements. He also polders out an egg, as we say in the south, because of the fact that he has to do well and that he is also going to act best for a second. That's what I said. However, he has also indicated that it is actually such that Schiphol could currently handle up to 600,000 flight movements. That's what he said six months or a year ago. I just said that. I was just quoting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u44	So you quoted yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u45	No, I quoted Mr Nijhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u46	Okay, very good. We are going to listen to Mrs Visser. Thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u47	A blessed evening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u48	You're not leaving yet, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u49	No, I'm still in there, for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u50	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u51	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have a point of order. Mr Van Helvert and I have learned that you cannot use names of persons here, such as Mr A. van de Alderstable. However, the name of Mr Nijhuis van Schiphol has just been widely used. Maybe you can go into that later. Before I continue, I would like to welcome Mrs Belhaj to this Chamber and congratulate her on her maiden speech. As my colleagues have said, it was a clear and personal story, from Harderwijk, but it was also on the content. I therefore look forward to our cooperation within this committee. We will continue to discuss the substance of this issue with each other on a number of occasions. I want to talk now about the bill itself. This law actually comes at a really weird time. I have spoken with people who were directly or indirectly involved in Schiphol, such as with people from Schiphol, with residents of for example Amstelveen, with municipal authorities from Haarlemmermeer, with residents, with companies and with Air Traffic Control Netherlands, and everyone says: please, take that law. We currently have a kind of tolerance situation in the Netherlands: Schiphol is flying according to this methodology, but we have not yet officially established it. That's why everyone's starting to get a little nervous and ask if this can please be determined so that we can move forward together to the future. It's an approved political tolerance policy. For the intimate who know about the discussion around Schiphol, I say that we are finally officially getting off the buckets and moving on to the system of preferential use of jobs. Those are difficult words that sound very technical, but simply mean that we are going to look at how we can optimally use the jobs of Schiphol to achieve as little noise as possible. That sounds like a wonderful goal. Last year's figures and also in the 2016 user forecasts show that Schiphol is far below the standard of all noise objectives to be achieved. As a result, residents suffer less and Schiphol can continue to grow according to the agreements. That is also essential, because Schiphol is more than a state participation. Schiphol has been a part of our existence for 100 years. As far as we are concerned, this is uncontested in the context of the growth of our prosperity. A small 300,000 men and women earn their salaries directly and indirectly. It is unique that with such a small hinterland of 17 million people we managed to stamp out an airport with over 300 destinations. Research also shows that every new international destination leads to more headquarters in our country. This also means high-quality employment. Schiphol plus the passengers who make use of it were there 58 million last year and the ease that we have of that show that Schiphol has not only a strong economic significance, but also a social one. Fortunately, the Chamber has also confirmed this earlier in the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision and referred to it as mainport. We're very proud of it here in the Chamber. The power is also in the built-up model. Home airlines are the "home carriers" as they are so beautifully called in English. KLM and Schiphol have designed the cooperation in a good way over the last 100 years and have thus come to a high level. That model, which is also called "hub and spoke" model in good English, is now a much copied model. In the Gulf States, as Mr Graus said in his speech, but also in Turkey, it is being pushed out of the ground in this way. I don't know if the Secretary of State read the interview with Turkish Airlines' top man three weeks ago in the NRC, but it said the literal quote: "We are growing, thanks to God and the government." Now I don't want to talk about faith here, but I want to talk about the government. This shows how aviation policy is handled and what the importance of the aviation sector is. That is what the government has explicitly chosen to do to support aviation. The question is whether that happens in an honest way. We have held several debates on this subject here in the Chamber and put oral and written questions. We have recently read in Het Financieele Dagblad that there is now a study by SEO (Stichting Economice Onderzoek) which deals with this. This shows that there is no unfair competition, but we have not yet received the letter and the report itself. I think it is very important to clarify this quickly, because this element keeps coming back. When a top man says "thanks to God and the government," I start to worry a little. This means that you cannot sit still, because other parties and countries have copied this model. This year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of Schiphol, but the VVD also wants to celebrate the existence of Schiphol in a way that contributes to our prosperity over the next 100 years. We must be able to develop the airport with the smallest possible surface area of all major airports in the world. We do not do that by focusing on big, bigger, biggest, because we will not succeed in this small frogland and Schiphol is also in the middle of the metropolis region of Amsterdam, where everyone also wants to live. We will do so by setting up the process as smartly as possible. In particular, it is up to Schiphol to give shape and content to this and to define what laws and regulations of our government are needed to shape this. These are all fine words, but I'm coming up with the bill myself. Everyone said we have to keep going, and that's what the VVD supports. We don't want to lock Schiphol. We do have a bit of a problem with the bill. I do recognise in Mr Graus's words the way in which we as the VVD Group have wrestled with this bill. This bill is actually from 2008, with all its good intentions. All positions were taken at the time and they didn't give each other the light in the eyes, but we had to get out. Mr A. van de Alderstable has been instructed to do so, but he has done so with a growth model which we have already seen year after year that it is not adequate. I also refer to the recent future scenarios of the Central Planning Bureau, which show what the aviation sector is going to do in a scenario of low economic growth and how big that growth will be. We can already see that this growth is growing tremendously, with more than what Alders has taken into account in all his calculations and predictions. We are now living in 2016 and see that Schiphol and all parties attach importance to adopting this bill. Friend and enemy agree that this works better, with the exception of Uithoorn and Aalsmeer. Does the Secretary of State recognize that criticism? I hear the message very much: we do experience the burden, but we do not have the pleasure in any way. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Can the lusts and burdens for Aalsmeer and Uithoorn be designed in such a way that they feel a little more that they can also share in the lusts and not just in the burdens? Since 2008, the aviation sector has changed tremendously. We have seen the rise of the low-cost carriers, the easyJets and the Ryanairs of this world. We have the new hubs, the Gulf States and Istanbul, which will be Europe's largest airport. We also have the prospect of the future. People like to travel.. a sign of prosperity... and so also often take the plane. What does that mean? The CPB warns about the hub function of Schiphol in its future scenarios, if we continue in this way and are not willing to think about another model. How does the Secretary of State see that? Does she recognize that dilemma? What does this mean for the agreements already made? In our view, therefore, the current legislative proposal does not provide a future solution if we want to maintain the mainport function of Schiphol and develop it in the future. It formalizes current practice, but does not open up to the future. Officially, this bill is not about that either, because this is about the number of flight movements, the noise and the way in which we want to deal with it, while that future needs to be regulated in the Airport Classification Decision and the Airport Traffic Decision; I had to take the names down. Can the Secretary of State confirm that this will be submitted to the Chamber first and that this will be done in conjunction with the mainport agenda this year? As far as we are concerned, we in the Chamber need to discuss what we want with Schiphol, what growth we want to facilitate and under what conditions and what that means. Can the Secretary of State comment on the planning and the question whether it is designed in this way? I have a number of substantive points to make. One of the principles is that, according to the Alderstable, Schiphol can grow to 500,000 flight movements by 2020 and then the 50-50 distribution is applied, which means that the environmental space gained is distributed across the airport and its surroundings. There are a number of points in this dossier that cause some noise. I would like to use this debate to remove that noise. One of these points is the fifty-fifty distribution after 2020. When we look at the current results of Schiphol in relation to the noise room, we see that the noise targets are well achieved every year. Does this mean that from 2020, when it comes to those 500,000 flight movements, Schiphol will have direct room for growth or will it actually start again and will it not be rewarded for all the efforts that have been made? One of the objectives was to reduce noise by 5%, and the figure is now well over 12%. So we see that the industry's efforts have led to noise reduction. That's really good. Will this also be rewarded after 2020 or should we start filling buckets again and measuring them? Can the Secretary of State answer that? Another point, Mr Van Helvert, has already mentioned it and we have also discussed it in previous debates with regard to the new Airport Classification Decision. We have the strange situation that, for example, the municipality of Amstelveen has an empty office building. It is often mentioned here in the Chamber, namely that of KPMG. The municipality wants to build student homes there, also in the context of the transformation, but it just doesn't get through at the moment. Investors and investors are ready, everyone wants, but somehow that doesn't happen. Even smaller projects in for example Aalsmeer and Amstelveen simply don't get off the ground. Can the Secretary of State comment on what is possible in the short term? I am very well aware that the broader discussion in the framework of SMASH is taking place, sorry chairman, they are all abbreviations, i.e. the sound law. What can be done in the short term? After all, we can see that the pressure on the housing market is increasing in this environment. How can we build housing in the short term? What rules are in place? Can we help these congregations? However, from the VVD's point of view, this can never mean that the aviation sector is penalised by even stricter standards. These things need to be balanced. If municipalities want to build more homes, people need to realise that they do live in an airport environment and that they can experience nuisance. That is an important point, also for that transformation. Let me now turn to another point in this bill. This bill also deals with the fourth job use, and at all with job use and preferential job use. I'll cross-reference it with the road traffic. We have a number of roads and we also have some peaks. Those peaks open when it fills up. However, we do not do so at Schiphol Airport. At Schiphol we have a fourth job and in case it all fills up, we have agreed very strict rules with each other. We have to fill out whole papers to be able to use them, while those planes continue to fly in the air. I do not think this is very good for both road safety and the environment, even though the job is just there. I bring this up because the aim of this law was to ensure that the use and reduction of noise pollution is handled smartly. What we see in the drafting of the law and also at the Alderstable is that one is not on that goal, but on the means. We are going to agree on job use and night flights, while the question is how to reduce noise pollution and how to make the best possible use of the space. I ask the Secretary of State if she recognizes the signals that there may already be a problem with the fourth runway use this year, with 470,000 flight movements, which means that it will be able to increase to 500,000 flight movements and whether it will be prepared, if there are any problems, to examine with parties what is possible there, from the point of view that noise pollution is brought down. In my view, this willingness is there and it can be, but it prevents the rigid application of the fourth runway and the fact that we have put the tool at the centre of optimal use of Schiphol. We just don't open the rush lane, so everything gets jammed. This applies not only to the period before 2020, but also to the period after 2020, when we have achieved 500,000 flight movements. Then I come to the final point, namely the Schiphol Environment Council, as it will officially be called on the basis of the bill. The Environment Council is actually already working in practice. It has already been incorporated into the law, but the Secretary of State also knows that the VVD Group has repeatedly voiced very critical noises about the totally undemocratic content of the Alders table and the administrative swamp in which we have become bogged down. In 2008 I started my speech with this, but now the VVD group has the feeling that everything comes from the Alderstable, that the Chamber can only sign at the cross. As soon as we think it should be changed, we get back: this was decided at the Alders table and we do not go back to the Alders table, because then there will be delays or we will have to deal with other issues. It can't be. We believe that the political debate should take place in this Chamber. In the Chamber we may have differences of opinion on certain matters, but this is where the frameworks need to be laid down. Here we have to deal with the number of movements and the noise objectives. That cannot be determined at the Alders table. It cannot be that we are confronted with results after which we can only sign by the cross and everything we want to change is simply no longer possible, because it is difficult, difficult, difficult and because then everyone has to go back to the Alders table, when nobody wants to. That is why we have tabled an amendment to explicitly incorporate this into the law. It is good to talk to each other, because we in the Chamber are not the experts who can tell us exactly how this can be achieved. However, the Chamber must lay down the political principles and the political frameworks within which the Environment Council can then work, so that people can address us. If one does not agree with the VVD, the PVV or D66, one can let you know at the ballot box and then it is very clear, but that cannot be done at the Alderstable. We should like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. As has been said, we have tabled an amendment which regulates the assessment of the Schiphol Environment Council, which is now being used in a different way. The bill states that the environmental council is to be given a balance sheet so that it is not just about the environment or just about the economy. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the following. We had a round table here where the representative of the Schiphol Environment Council was present. If the Environment Council is supposed to be about network quality, then the Environment Council should really limit itself to advising on this. Personal motivations, such as the protection of KLM, should not play a role in this. You may find all kinds of things, but that should not be led by the way in which the Environment Council acts. I mention this example because the representative of the Environment Council in the round table argued in fact that Schiphol should not give more room to parties other than KLM. Someone may think so personally, but I think that a representative of the ORS, who should also advise on the quality of the network, should not talk about it. The debate on how we intend to shape Schiphol as part of the network quality policy is, by definition, a political debate. That is why we have included this element in an amendment. I think I've run out of time by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u52	Forty seconds to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by congratulating Mrs Belhaj on her maiden speech. I thought it was an impressive maiden speech, where many, regardless of which party, can get a lot of wisdom from. We have already welcomed each other, but I also congratulate Mrs Belhaj on this impressive maiden speech. The old system of standards and enforcement was dated and inimitable to interested parties and even to experts. Therefore, at the Alderstable, the consultation table of all parties involved, Schiphol, residents, KLM and go ahead and decide to come up with a new system. I say to Mr Van Helvert that it is good work. It is a good thing that everyone has finally taken up their responsibilities and delivered this opinion. It's taken a long time. Of course it's not about nothing. The new system has been experimented with since 2010. Mr Alders delivered a positive opinion on this system in 2013, and that is why this legislative amendment has been experimented with in the past two years and has already worked with it, which is the final step in the process. It records an existing practice. Then you can say it has to be faster, but a wise proverb says: only you go faster, but together you go further. There are many airports where protests continue, which often do not benefit the airport itself. Look at Frankfurt. Sometimes it might be wise to take a step back. I myself am very much in favour of speed, but we must continue in a very complex environment for a very long time. For the Dutch economy, it is important that we maintain our role as a trading hub in Europe. Some of us were at Schiphol Airport last Friday to look at the part of the cargo aviation. This must be maintained, among other things, by strengthening the position of Schiphol. The mainport's interests are great. There are more than 280,000 jobs involved. At the same time we need to look at the residents, their health and the noise they experience around Schiphol. There's that balance. That's why you can't just shove rules aside. It is therefore important to develop a system that meets both interests. The amendment of the law is a final step in a new system. This lays a new foundation for growth, which will continue, according to some to 600,000, according to others to 837.000. You can choose your own independent expert. This system has been established by frequent consultation. We have discussed this in detail throughout the written preparation. For the people who watch at home; this has already been preceded by a very long discussion. However, we still have a number of questions, which naturally correspond to some of my colleagues' questions. In order to please a number of Members of Parliament who are hungry for dinner break and you, Chairman, I will refer to that at a number of moments. My first question to the Secretary of State concerns the interests of the residents of Aalsmeer and Uithoorn in relation to the increasing use of the Aalsmeerbaan. That's what many here have mentioned. How does the Secretary of State view the criticism? Is it prepared to include this in the evaluations over the next few years and, if so, how? My second question is what positive effects the international CO agreements referred to yesterday by the Secretary of State will have on the framework we are discussing today. My third question is how is health guaranteed within the ORS through RIVM or other experts? After all, the fine dust problem, to name but a part of it, must always have our attention. How are these interests and considerations secured in this law? A number of things will certainly come back to the Mainport Agenda Schiphol. I expect to discuss this within a month and a half. I think I remember that it would come here in the course of March. Others were right to go into that as well. What is the status of housing at the moment? That's a bitch. Where are opportunities in the short term? There's a lot of discussions about that. My VVD colleague mentioned this as well as the SMASH discussions. Where are, in the short term, small plots of land, available or where are transformations possible to meet the large housing needs without harming all kinds of other interests too much? I can assume that the cabinet will also present a vision on the long-term development of housing in the mainport agenda, but I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State there later. We must look closely at the growth forecasts, not only until 2020, but also afterwards, as I say to Mr Gra-uz, in all seriousness. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look further in the discussion on the mainport agenda? We can say that at 600,000. But the CPB says it's going to 837,000. The director of Schiphol says there are limits to that. Shouldn't we move the discussion? Why don't we expand Lelystad? You sure it's okay at Schiphol? Should we move other functions besides tourist traffic, or should we look even further? I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at capacity growth. I can imagine that she does not have the answers tonight, but I would like to hear that we are definitely discussing this in the mainport agenda. I would simply like to say that we have talked a great deal about a second national airport in the past. All this has been ricocheted off, but if we want to continue to grow, if it has to have an important place and if the prospects say that there is enormous growth, then I think we should look at it again. Then we have to ask ourselves how we look at the airports of Eindhoven and Lelystad in the wider context, which we have said are extremely important to meet the further capacity distribution at Schiphol Airport. Let there be no misunderstanding: the interests of Schiphol are crucial, but if you have really grown to your limits, you have to ask yourself how you want to move forward in the future. After all, we do not want the e.g. the Netherlands to close. We need to find an answer to that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u55	Mr Monasch was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term. At 8:45 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u56	Mr. Chairman. Before I finish the blocks, I would like to thank Mrs Belhaj for her maiden speech and congratulate her on her contribution. It was not only very passionate but also very substantive. I therefore think it will be a pleasure to have the debate with her. Firstly, in general terms, I would like to say a few words about the legislative proposal. I shall then turn to the important issue of local protection, which has been raised by several Members. I will deal specifically with the situation in Aalsmeer, among others. Then I will put forward the enforcement by our ILT and the position of the Schiphol Environment Council. Several members have also asked important questions about the future sustainability of the system. The building block will then be discussed. Of course, I will also pay a great deal of attention to sustainability, which I think is a very important issue. I'll close with the other block. Among other things, I will deal with what is coming to us from the Gulf States, questions from GroenLinks about the ticket tax and questions from Mr Smaling about the race to the bottom. I will also bring forward the Single European Sky and so on. As far as I am concerned, that is the order of things. First of all, the bill. I'm glad we can discuss that today. I would like to emphasise, as has been pointed out by several Members, that we really did not go ice over one night. A number of steps have been carefully taken in recent years. That's special, because we usually start in the Chamber with the adoption of a bill and then see if it works in practice. This is actually where the reverse route was chosen. I would like to take over the compliment, which Mr Van Helvert and Mr Monasch have also given to all those involved, on behalf of the cabinet, because I think that this bill is due to all those involved here today. This bill offers perspective to Schiphol, to our economy and to the social interests involved, but at the same time it also protects those living near Schiphol. I would like to emphasise that I think I have struck the right balance with the legislative proposal before us. The starting point of the new system, which has indeed been mentioned for a long time, is that we use the jobs that hinder people as little as possible. The system is part of a comprehensive package, with a great deal of support from a large number of parties. The basic principles are: a selective development but an opportunity for aviation, measures to reduce nuisances, improving the quality of the environment, but also offering opportunities for the use of space around the airport. These are indeed important principles, I say to Mrs Belhaj, who asked me if I share the principles she mentioned. The answer to that is, short and powerful, yes. We have been experimenting with the new system of standards and enforcement for two years now. In fact, the Chamber has been constantly informed about this. The Alderstable unanimously adopted its opinion in 2013 to now introduce this system into laws and regulations. I think it is important now to include this broad-based advice in legislation and regulation, as it will provide the environment with clarity about the formal framework for protection. However, this could also create room for the aviation sector. Mr Graus has argued that there should be room for growth, but with a vote against, he would actually make the Schiphol area impossible to grow further. We'll fall back on the old system. Although Mr Graus may not think that this is the most ideal legislation, I disagree with it, Mr Graus still understands that it is an important argument for those who vote in favour of the law to make that growth possible. We should not want to fall back on a system that really only has limitations. I also have the impression that in this debate only Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks is genuinely of a different opinion. You can, and then you should not vote for the law, but if you think that growth should be possible, taking into account the environment, this bill is an important instrument for that. I'm going into the timing now. Indeed, the bill is a kind of framework and a lot of things are actually regulated if you like: politically fought out within both the aviation decision and the LIB. These will be presented to the Chamber together with the environmental impact report after the summer recess and, of course, will also be put forward, but the mainport agenda requested by the Chamber will come this spring. I fear that it will not be quite March, because it must always go through our own circuits of alignment, but April I hope to make it. Then the coherence that Mrs Visser is asking for can really be given a place in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u57	I hope the Secretary of State understood me correctly. I said, "second best." However, I will advise my group to at least consider voting in favour, especially on the way to the Airport Transport Decision, for which we all need it. That is what we are going to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u58	Certainly, and I appreciate your advice to your group. I was actually trying to make some argument with which you might say: it is perhaps more than a second best; it is actually just a good proposal. But it is up to you to determine the sound colour that gives you a positive vote advice. For me, as I say quite honestly, the result always counts at the end of the day. I hope for broad support for the proposal before us. Mr Grashoff has asked how we can maintain the equivalence ceilings per job. Is a separate enforcement point or a separate standard per job possible? The honest answer is: no, it can't be, because that was the old system and that didn't work anymore. You can't literally keep the buckets for measuring sound along the track and combine that with a completely different system, with which we are already working and which in practice proves itself to my liking. You'd be in real trouble. It's just technically not a good idea either. Ceilings per job can also lead to a "super-suboptimal" effect, I would say. Indeed, there have been situations where aircraft had to move to another orbit if a limit had been reached in a primary orbit, even if they could still reach the primary orbit again. This resulted in more obstacles, so that really wasn't a system that made everyone very happy. If you allowed those systems to exist side by side and continue to mix, those perverse effects, those negative incentives in the system, would remain. Many speakers have asked about the situation in Aalsmeer. In fact, all Members have asked whether the preferred use of jobs in practice does not lead to excessive use of the Aalsmeerbaan and to more nuisances. The key point of the new system is that no more jobs are being used at Schiphol than is necessary for the operation and, above all, those that cause the least inconvenience. This has resulted in a very precise requirement when an additional runway can be used and what order of the runway combinations to be deployed should be used. This will depend on the time of the day and the meteorological and operational conditions. In the new system, the Aalsmeer job has been identified as a so-called secondary job. In other words, the new system must limit the use of this job as much as possible. The new system also avoids possible additional steering measures that will burden Aalsmeer. An annex to the final opinion shows that, as a result of the growth of Schiphol, the use of secondary jobs in general is indeed increasing. Mr Smaling said exactly that, and that is true. This also means that the deployment of the Aalsmeer orbit will increase. Because if the Chamber says 'we want to move towards growth and that must be possible', then it cannot do so without the commitment of those jobs. A study carried out in the framework of the final opinion also shows that the range of the total number of movements on the Aalsmeerbaan and on the Zwanenburgbaan increases with further growth. However, the bandwidth remains substantially below the bandwidth of the number of movements on the preferred Kaagbaan and Polderbaan. In the case of growth, too, these two favourite jobs will be used more than the other two jobs, to put it mildly. Mr Van Helvert asked whether it was true that the forecasts were exceeded. The development forecasts were issued in 2013 and communicated with the Court. We have also looked at the realization in the use of the Aalsmeerbaan compared to the prognosis. All these years have shown that we have remained within the range of the prognosis. That is why I do not recognise the point made by Mr Van Helvert. I have the figures for the whole story and it shows that the use of the Aalsmeerbaan increases with regard to the forecasts and the total realization of both take-offs and landings. This is undoubtedly a fact, but it is not the case that it does not remain within the projections. I will tell you later what we are going to do to meet the sensitive area at Aalsmeer as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u59	If you calculate the number of take-offs and landings, it increases on those secondary lanes, but it does remain within a certain bandwidth. However, the point is in the number of start-ups. Due to the new start-up procedures, which have led to higher noise levels at start-ups, and due to the CDA decrease, which has reduced noise levels in the event of falls, the increase in the number of start-ups is far more burdensome than the benefit of reducing the number of landings. For the Aalsmeerbaan, the forecast of 2010, with which Uithoorn and Aalsmeer agreed, spoke of 39,000 startes. The start-ups are more burdensome than the benefit of less noise in the event of a decrease. If you then go from 39 000 to 64,000 start-ups, I can imagine that municipalities like Uithoorn and Aalsmeer feel somewhat bought in relation to the moment they signed up. What does the Secretary of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u60	The tricky thing is that Mr Van Helvert really does bring out different figures than I see. Maybe he can tell me where he found the numbers he mentioned. I have evaluations of the usage forecast here. For 2010 I come to a total realization of 49,598 flight movements: 28,899 starts and 20,699 landings. For the debate, it would be good if he indicated what figures he was using. I'll get back to you on that. I can only say now that the realisation of the Aalsmeerbaan remains below the forecasts issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u61	I think it's a good thing I'm going through the numbers. I received the figures I used this afternoon from the residents of Aalsmeer, who also sits in the ORS. I'm okay with putting the numbers next to each other. If they're wrong numbers, I'm the first to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u62	That seems fair to me. I use the figures I get from my people, and of course I rely on them. I can imagine that we will have a look at how the inhabitants get these figures. I hope to give you an explanation in the second term. It may also be that we do not agree on the facts. You can do that at the end of the day. However, we agree that this is a good thing to say that the south-east corner has to deal with an obstacle increase in growth to 500,000 flight movements. As I say to Mr Van Helvert, there has never been any disagreement, and there has never been any secrecy about it. It was also recognised in the final opinion of the Alderstable. That is why the Schiphol Environment Council has once again identified all conceivable proposals for nuisance reduction in this area with the surrounding area. The proposals have been examined on their effects and feasibility. The Schiphol Environment Council then concluded that the southeast corner is a complex environment, because there are a number of things that come together. The environment is, not illogically, popular as a place of residence. This can also be seen from the figures on housing development. On the other hand, the environment has a high noise level due to overflowing air traffic. Mr Van Helvert said: why don't you look at all the options? That is precisely the point: that is, of course, what has been done. This study has shown that, unfortunately, the possibilities for doing something on the air side are very limited. Of all the measures identified, only one potential anti-inhibiting measure remains. Of course, I will insist that it be taken forward with speed, because that seems important to me. In addition, the Province of Noord-Holland, the Empire and Schiphol have jointly made available 30 million per tranche for the first and second tranches of the Life Fund. From the first tranche, the region has managed to realise a number of spatial projects. The second tranche will start next year. So where we cannot influence it by means of nuisance control, we are at least looking at how we can meet the region in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u63	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. She mentioned that there was still one anti-noise measure left and that she would make an effort to do so. Can she explain what this is and when Uithoorn and Aalsmeer will be able to see the first results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u64	That is a technical measure. I understand it's about re-routing the runway route. It will take some time to realize that, but it is important that we do something with what remains. Mrs Belhaj asked whether we could only allow the operational margin for exceptional cases. It is important to say that it is not about allowing violations. It is about finding a balance sheet that she also appointed herself between transparency and complexity in the so-called accountability system. At the request of the Chamber, the number of grounds for explanation in the accounting system is "How did we actually achieve preferential job use?" It extends from five to nine. This allowed the standard to be raised from 90% to 95%. It was then concluded that a number of land could be distinguished, in particular in the field of meteo, namely altitude winds, winter conditions, availability of resources and so on. In recent years, we've had an experiment. At that time, it was found that these factors were so few, and it was also found that, by their nature, they were difficult to clearly operationalise, that they were difficult to fit into the automatic explainability model for the purpose of supporting the use. Therefore, there are legitimate reasons for the use of the jobs, so they are not infringements, but their nature and extent are difficult to adapt as an explanation, unless you want to make the system hopelessly complicated. And I don't think we do. Mrs Belhaj has asked me if I want to go with my time. I feel like I'm still doing that. I hope that I will show this when answering her question as to whether, for example, a social media strategy can be set up. Mr Smaling asked for this in his own way. He asked for more information about complaints and about air traffic for the residents. Mrs. Belhaj's idea of combining all the information to the environment in one place is a good one. During the installation of the environmental council, attention was explicitly asked from the Reich for this, under the name of an "environment house Schiphol." New media do indeed make it possible to shape this. We now know from the annual plan of the Schiphol Environment Council that this is currently being worked on by the sector, administrative parties and local residents. My ministry is also involved in this. In recent months, a first step has been taken with the inventory of demand by local residents, supplemented by an inventory of the supply side by the sector parties. In addition, a task force has been set up which will continue to work this year on how to really start effective and efficient information and services to the environment. That is an important part of this transparency. Mr Smaling and Mrs Belhaj asked about the ILT, about enforcement. They have highlighted the importance of enforcement in order for the system to function effectively. I agree. The legislative proposal that the Aviation Act lays down a basis for establishing rules for strictly preferential job use in the LVB, of course, partly regulates this. The rules in the LVB are formulated in concrete terms, with enforceable standards. Of course, the Chamber will be able to look into that later. The enforcement of the rules is carried out by the ILT. The Schiphol Environmental Information Scheme also lays down the information to be reported to the ILT by public law. The system in which those records and the provision of data are recorded shall be assessed in advance by the ILT and periodically thereafter. This is done by means of audits combined with administrative checks. If the ILT finds that a rule or standard has been broken, it is possible, as in the current system, to act in a certain way. That is proportional, so that always depends on the nature and the manner in which the offence took place. That's up to the ILT. Since enforcement in the new system is carried out by the ILT, it will also handle the enforcement requests itself. It is good to say, also for the legal history, that any enforcement decision is open to opposition and appeal. This also applies when the ILT decides not to maintain. That's good to pass. This means that if the ILT has a negative decision on an objection, the case can be referred to the Administrative Court. Mr Smaling asked whether there was sufficient capacity for enforcement. The ILT capacity now being used for the current system is that very complex system with all those enforcement points.... is also available for maintaining the new system. So I don't expect any trouble with that. Amendments have been tabled on the Environment Council. I will say something about that at the end of this block. I would like to emphasise that I think that all Members of Parliament see it as a good thing that there is an involvement of the Schiphol Environment Council, but that the political primacy is obviously in the Chamber. It always is. Mrs Visser may have seen this most often in the Eindhoven case. There we have deviated from what emerged from the consultation and, on the basis of the discussion that has been planned and the political basis, we have decided to do something different. It was not a result that Mrs Visser was happy with, but it does underline her right. Eventually, here in this Chamber, it is decided what the growth opportunities are for the airport. Here, too, the balance is struck between reducing the nuisance and offering perspective to the powerful mainport, I would say, with employment which also provides very well-paid jobs, sometimes better paid than in many other places. Together with Mr Monasch, Mrs Belhaj asked about the consideration of health. In the block about particulate matter I will say a little more about this, because yes, I also think this is important and yes, the RIVM is also used for that. For example, it can play a role in the Environment Council, but not with a permanent seat. If necessary, the experts will come to the table. The government itself has also conducted environmental studies into exposure of residents to particulate matter. It should not depend on an environmental council whether such an important subject is at all dealt with. That seems to me to be a matter for all of us. For this reason, the cabinet will also keep its finger on the pulse on this subject. So the RIVM does have an input, even on call, but not a permanent seat. Let's get the expertise to come to us all, especially through research. Then we can keep talking about it here. Mr Grashoff suggested that if you were too critical, you would not be allowed to participate in the Schiphol Environment Council. I dare say that the ORS has a democratic model, complete with elections and people who can run for election. The residents are well represented. Of course, I also come across people who have interests or want to be heard and who doubt whether the ORS is the right tool for them. In the Netherlands we organise participation that we shape in an institute like the ORS. We are unique in that. In that sense, I shall refrain from what Mr Grashoff has said. I'm proud that environmental council is here. I think he should do his job, too. In the end, we decide here. This brings me to the assessment of the two amendments tabled by Mrs Visser. It has an amendment to point No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 7 in which she stresses that there is also a political climate. She wants to make this clearer in the law. I think that, when adding a third paragraph, so that national airport policy is respected in the exercise of the task, it is obviously important that we establish, and let there be no misunderstanding, that the primacy for policy lies with politics. I do not think that the amendment is necessarily necessary in that sense, because it is clear to me. I understand her desire to say this again. I think that the amendment underlines this and therefore I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. In her second amendment, she proposes to evaluate after three years the functioning of the ORS. I should also like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. I think that's a good point. I think after three years, you can say something about how it works. It is a little less complex, I'm sure, this is a small profit warning in the direction of Mr Smaling for his amendment, rather than the whole bill, which is broader and for which an evaluation is foreseen. I come to the question of how future-proof this system is. This is a key question for many in this debate. Are the ceilings proposed not already too tight? Some suggested that and asked me to take a look at the long-term perspective. I think that for the short term last year we made good agreements with the sector and the environment on the standards for the use of the fourth job. These agreements were made in response to the signal that this fourth runway rule would then, at 470,000 flight movements, become too tight, because, contrary to the industry's previous expectations, peak hourly capacity could not be increased in the short term. It was then decided, in good consultation with the environment, to extend that standard on the fourth runway rule. In combination with a slight increase in peak hour capacity by the sector, this has enabled the development to 500,000 flight movements. I think it's good to say here that we were on 449,000 movements last year. So we're still a long way from the 500,000 signal. It is not our expectation that we will achieve this by 2020. Along that line, the EIA is now also being drawn up for the purposes of the aviation decision. I would like to be able to base it on actual facts when discussing the future stability of ceilings in the system, as Mr Graus has already asked. We need the EIA for that. This is being worked on, but we do not have that at the moment. Once we have that EIA, we will indeed look at medium-term development again and in good consultation with the sector and the environment. That is why we agreed on the fifty-fifty measure. The Court itself has previously asked for the precise implementation of this fifty-fifty measure well before the expiry of the 500,000 ceiling for the period up to 2020. We must be prepared for that. I will keep the promise made to the Chamber earlier. In consultation with the sector and the environment, I will see whether there is an effective incentive to reduce nuisances from the 50-50 rule in the medium term, because that rule is intended for this purpose. You can grow and earn your capacity, but half of it is returned to the environment as it were to organize less nuisance reduction. I now hear that some Members are concerned about this, and Mrs Visser spoke most clearly about it, which would no longer be there in the medium term because of the four-way rule. I believe that this stimulus is necessary, not only in order to reduce the obstacles, but also in order to enable growth. A number of Members have spoken about what will happen next. How do we proceed? Mr. Smaling says we don't need Lelystad. I disagree. I think we're gonna need Lelystad. This was discussed earlier in the Chamber and it was said at the time: well, perhaps growth is not so great that Lelystad is necessary at all. That's not true, because Lelystad is needed. We should also be careful to suggest that despite Eindhoven, Lelystad and space at Schiphol Airport there would be a capacity problem in the short term. Both scenarios, doom scenarios if you like, I would like to contradict them. We need to keep the finger on the wrist. I also think that we should follow very closely what is actually happening in the market. Furthermore, we have to keep looking at the balance again and again, and that is to say that we will soon be looking at the implementation of the fifty-fifty rule and the longer-term capacity. I will say a few words about the studies and forecasts of the CPB, but I will also come back to this in the Agenda for Action. I'm saying that because I hope that doesn't mean I have to give this a whole exegesis tonight. That was not necessary, as was said, but I think it is fair to return to the agenda for action. The scenarios show a significant increase in passenger demand. That's very good. It is also very important to prepare aviation policy for the future, as these scenarios also show. Growth rates also played an important role in the debate on regional airports. At the time it was said that we were perhaps too optimistic and that we might not need Eindhoven and Lelystad. At the moment, however, the discussion is almost going in the opposite direction and Schiphol is fully preparing for the future. For example, they are working with a master plan and a new A-pier. Furthermore, there is also a problem on a country-by-country basis. We have already discussed this in the debate on the MIRT. I also discussed it during my various rail debates with the Chamber, because it is really necessary to do something about Schiphol Plaza, the station. If we do not, we will face a major problem of capacity in the future. The CPB and PBL studies are based on a very positive development of the fleet, which would rapidly increase the number of silent aircraft. They also assume that more traffic can be removed at the busiest moments of the day than that the analyses of LVNL, for example, show us at the moment. I should now like to make that small comment on what has been said. Of course, PBL and CPB are looking at the long-standing historical trends. Furthermore, the practice is that in summer more is flown than in winter. I would like to say to Mrs Visser and others that if this fleet renewal is indeed going much faster than that envisaged in the cabinet policy, then that is, first of all, a major gain. I think we can agree that this would be fantastic in itself, because then there will be a lot more quiet and clean planes very quickly. In this sense, I also see the optimistic studies that are now under way, as an incentive to continue, above all, with what we are now doing, namely preparing for growth and ensuring that this capacity is put right. Especially for leisure, we will also have to organise alternate opportunities in Lelystad and, as has recently been realized, in Eindhoven. In this way we can continue to organise the mainport for the so-called long-distance flights, which are of great economic and social importance to us. I think that's good. There's been a specific request for the fifty-fifty rule. Indeed, this agreement means that after the year of use 2020, within the criteria for equivalent noise protection, more flight movements are possible than 500,000. The space generated above this ceiling is then used for half of the volume growth. Mrs Visser specifically asked whether this means that counting will only begin or that Schiphol will soon be able to use the space that is now being saved. The answer to that last question is yes, but according to the fifty-fifty rule. Half of the profits that are now being made go to capacity growth. That's how we agreed. Those are the expectations, and that is good in itself. I come to Mr Smaling's amendment. He is actually proposing that the entire law be reviewed within three years, rather than within the five-year period laid down in the bill. The new system has been evaluated on the basis of two years of practical experience. If you have to have an evaluation done within three years, you have to start much earlier. Then you de facto only work with the new system for a few years. I think that is very brief. My proposal is to stay with the five years we have now. This increases the value of the evaluation itself. You can show me for more years what you've done. In my opinion, that's more useful in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u65	My motivation to table the amendment was that there are many new elements in this new law. You may get a quick build-up of case law, because you work with a new system. You might be happy to have a look back after three years. In my view, the building of case law can proceed very quickly, because there is simply a nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u66	I think, on the contrary, that the system that we propose with the Environment Council, which can do its job within the political primacy, can prevent this case-law as much as possible. That is one of the reasons why it has gone relatively well over the past two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u67	Mr President, would you like to contribute to this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u68	No, I was wondering if you'd like to continue your interruption. Interrupting is usually not done at once. If there's anything else you'd like to say, you can say it here, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u69	I'll chew on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u70	Why don't you go chew?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u71	In the meantime, I come to the important theme of housing space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u72	I waited for the Secretary of State to finish the block on how to deal with future growth. The Secretary of State does challenge me a little when it comes to Eindhoven. I can challenge her, too. The political primate is here. We will be able to table a motion to the effect that the 500,000 and the fifty-fifty rule should be removed. If that motion is passed, is the Secretary of State prepared to execute it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u73	If the motion is passed, I'll have to execute her. I'll advise against the motion, and that's my right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u74	The dilemma of the Alderstable is thus outlined. I am concerned that we have something to say at the beginning of the process and not at the end of it, as the Secretary of State indicated in the case of Eindhoven. I shall come back to the way in which the fourth job has been used. There's been an interaction. It is permissible to extend the use of the fourth runway, but the maximum number of flight movements has been reduced from 510,000 to 500,000. The Secretary of State has not addressed the following crucial element. This law is based on the principle of reducing noise as much as possible by making optimal use of all the jobs of Schiphol. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD Group that in that context, perhaps not now, but towards 2020, you should look again at how to deal with the use of the fourth job? The remedy is now being set as a goal, while the whole starting point and the basis of that law is: how do we ensure that noise is reduced? Then I'll make the comparison with the traffic lanes. You also open it to improve the flow and get as little interference as possible. Can we look at the use of the fourth track in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u75	We've already proven at that point that we were willing to look into it. Then it turned out that in those 470,000 flight movements, you would actually organize a negative incentive if you continued in that way. I do need to wait for the E.R. before I make any guiding remarks about it. This data will have to show how precisely that preferential job use and the way in which we have described it relates to what was hindering it and other facts. I do not think that you need to have this debate now either. This must be done in the context of the underlying laws and regulations. Mr Graus has already referred to this. He's got all kinds of ideas about this, too. That is where we need to have that debate. For my part, I'd like to bring clarity. In itself, of course, I will find, unless the E.R. shows otherwise, that you do not just put aside what was previously agreed and never discussed in the Chamber in a majority until now. That's a reliable signal that you have to put back with the people you're talking to. Let us let the Commission for the EIA do its job and see what comes out of it. In the end, we always think the goal is more important than the means. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u76	I'll be brief. We understand that the E.R. needs to be waited out. For us, a very important element in this discussion is that we step away from past agreements if the EIA shows that you can optimally achieve fourth runway use and thereby reduce noise. That must be the outcome. If we just stick to what the agreements once were, we'll get to the very point of the ORS. Then the Chamber can always sign at the cross and we cannot, on the basis of moving insight, realize the whole basis of this law: reducing noise from the objective and not from the medium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u77	That would assume you already know what's in the E.R. I don't know yet. So I'm gonna wait and see. Then I'll make another attempt to speak on the subject of living around Schiphol. The cabinet policy is indeed aimed at leaving sufficient room for the development of the mainport and being reluctant to build in places in the area where noise or safety makes it undesirable. It is, of course, also the case that the municipalities experience bottlenecks as a result of this policy. That is why I would like to offer some space within the city, under conditions, for small locations, of course, but not just allow new housing locations outside. At the moment we are looking at whether, in consultation with representatives from the region and from the airport, we can reach a common position on that broad dossier of that transformation and the SMASH, just to stay in professional terms. That's tricky. As a true social democrat, I see a problem of division immediately emerging here. That is purely about the question of what space you have for capacity growth of the mainport. Everyone here has underlined how important that is. That's true. What space do you allow at the same time for housing in an area where we all know there is a great task and the pressure is high? Both these interests are also represented at the table. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zullen daar gewoon zo snel als het kan, niet alleen voor de korte termijn, want dan hebben we het over de transformatie binnen het 20 Ke-gebied, maar ook voor de wat langere termijn tot een gedragen oplossing moeten komen.]] But that can only be a solution where, on the one hand, we respect that it is a national airport, and so we cannot just let the city council determine the capacity space for the airport. I think Mrs Visser agrees with that. On the other hand, we must also offer perspective to the region where it is felt the hardest. A few examples have already been mentioned of areas where you would like to have some space. I therefore hope that we will be able to come up with a proposal in conjunction with the Schiphol Agenda for Action. We are doing what can be done to achieve a rapid breakthrough, because a number of Members have rightly pointed out that it is taking a long time, and I also noticed when I arrived in November. The Chamber and the region are simply entitled to clarity. That is important to all of us, and I would like to wholeheartedly endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u78	I can see a few people standing by the interrupting microphone, but can we finish the building block with you first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u79	In that block I have one more point, namely Mr Van Helvert's question on masts and related matters. He wanted to know if it was true that altitude restrictions were imposed in the airport classification decision. Yeah, that's right. In 2015, my predecessor discussed with this Chamber a change to the LIB due to flight safety. That decision was published in October. I have no further change due to flight safety in store. So you can actually say that it is already standing policy. It's not something that's gonna be biked in tonight. It's already in there; it's already biked in. However, this has happened for a good reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u80	I do not think that this construction report is so concrete. I wonder how we're gonna fix it. In living in Weesp himself. They are already happy about building the Bloemendalerpolder. In Muiden, you have one of those areas. It's just on the approach to the Buitenveldertbaan. Mrs Visser gave all the examples of Amstelveen and Aalsmeer. The municipalities and, in part, the provinces, of course, have an autonomous position in the designation of explaining locations. The Spatial Planning Act sees this. Ground policy is currently being pushed into the Environment Act. What does the Secretary of State actually see as a legal framework in order not to go completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u81	That is precisely why it has been discussed for so long. It's just very sensitive. On the one hand, you don't want to organize an entire platoon of new complainants. On the other hand, you want to be able to do a little more where that space is needed. That means you actually have to shoot a two-stage missile. First of all, at the point of transformation within the 20 Ke zone, you have to ask yourself what you can do to enable a transformation without too many problems. Secondly, you have to ask yourself, for the medium term, where you can and where you can't make enlargement and what the conditions are for it. That conversation is going on right now. I have also had an administrative consultation on it, and that will not be the last consultation. That means I don't want to get ahead of it now. It is not in the present legislative proposal, by the way. It is an important subject, but not a subject that is on the table in the bill tonight. I hope to be able to make a proposal to the Chamber in connection with the mainport agenda, because I can imagine that the Chamber would then want to look at the wider context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u82	Of course, it's not related to the bill. But look at Tata Steel. The municipality of Heemskerk has built a new district in the direction of the factory. This leads to a huge increase in complaints about Tata Steel. Maybe that's what's waiting for you in this case. So I don't know if it's wise to push it out for you. I would therefore like to suggest to the Secretary of State that he should be more specific about this in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u83	Then we misunderstand each other, because that's exactly what I'm trying to do. I think it is necessary that we provide clarity in the short term. And if it is possible, it has to be done in both respects: what do you do for the transformation?That's the smaller story and what can and can be done in the medium term? I very much agree with Mr Smaling that the running is rushing. However, I also believe that local residents and, above all, municipalities and administrators are entitled to clarity. So we will have to unite these two things at the board table. It's no different. The House will then be able to say whether this proposal is sensible or unwise. It will also be discussed in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u84	It is nice that the Secretary of State is discussing this and that both sides are taken into account. That's what a secretary of state should say. Nevertheless, I feel the need to give some indication of the direction in which the Chamber is thinking. Of course, Schiphol must continue to grow. We've just underlined all that. Of course, you can't build large neighborhoods just under a runway or a runway. However, I would like to hear the intention of the Secretary of State to enter into the talks. If a pimple arises in a municipality somewhere in the core, because a company or a school becomes empty, you can fill it with, for example, four apartments. It would be good to give these municipalities the confidence that they will solve that well. That trust is based on the fact that these same municipalities are now cooperating. The municipality itself doesn't benefit from it either. So I am talking here about solving small-scale problems and the transition of vacant buildings into the core. Can the Secretary of State begin the talks with a positive attitude and intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u85	I think it is fair to say that I am starting these talks with a positive basic attitude in any case. If I truly thought that we could not achieve a good balance and if I only saw it as a 'threat' to aviation, I would rather draw a line. Yes, of course you can organize some kind of flexibility when it comes to small transformations within 20 Ke. That's my intention, too. However, it is always in line with what needs to be done in the medium term. Mr Van Helvert understands that I would like to come to a full agreement with the administrative consultation before discussing all kinds of sub-proposals here. I would like to make Mr Van Helvert very happy, but then the discussion would end immediately. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u86	I am particularly concerned with making the residents and Schiphol people happy and not so much about making a Member happy. Thank you, however, for the intention expressed by the Secretary of State here. I also had another question about the standing policy on the masts. I didn't understand exactly what the Secretary of State said. Am I to understand that it is already a policy that these masts are no longer allowed to sail by? That would be too ridiculous for words. It is a very culturally responsible route and as a result no fewer aircraft can land. You could at least make agreements with these cultural institutions. If so, I have the need to table another amendment before we vote to delete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u87	Again, that's not in this bill. If Mr Van Helvert did not want to do so, he should not have wanted to change the airport classification decision earlier, namely in October. That's what happened to me back then. There is therefore no point in tabling an amendment now. My predecessor has discussed a change with your Chamber. I have nothing more to add to that myself and I am not going to. In fact, the decision published in October 2015 contains high-level provisions. They are there to intervene when flight safety is at stake. With the province of Noord-Holland agreements have been made on the Standing mast route, so that potentially unsafe situations are avoided, but without the Standing mast route being broken. So this is not just about the level that security problems could entail. It is also about disruption of air traffic controllers' equipment, for example. If there is a flight on a particular course, it is sometimes impossible to sail through. Then there'll be some kind of traffic light system. But I don't think it's too bad. I would save my amendment on a better subject. That's a free advice. I now come to emissions of ultra-fine dust. Mr Smaling and Mr Monasch have asked whether we can make the air fleet more sustainable. This must be a central pillar of aviation policy. At global level, we are working through ICAO towards a global CO compensation system. The night before last, a very important agreement was reached on a CO standard for aircraft. That is a real breakthrough, because it is part of the solution. With that CO standard, you make the planes so much cleaner that they emit less. That's source policy. We are also working on an international pricing system, an ETS-like system, the so-called global market-based measure system. The Netherlands is also committed to this as President of the European Union. This second part of the proposal remains to be decided. We hope that in September, when the ICAO general assembly takes place, we will have both proposals on the table. It could be said that what was not yet possible in Paris, namely to make aviation part of climate policy, is still taking shape through this route. That is something to be very pleased about. The fifty-fifty principle encourages the fleet to become quieter. Schiphol also does so by varying the starting and landing fees according to sound. This has greatly reduced the number of aircraft movements of the most noisy aircraft in recent years. Rates for night operations have been increased to discourage night use as much as possible. I think that is a good thing, because it has made a really big profit. There is no doubt that we will talk about this within the framework of the mainport agenda, but I think that it is sometimes underestimated how much profit is being made there at the moment. Of course, that's very good. Mrs Belhaj asked whether I can confirm that the new system has no effect on air quality and noise. I assume she means that the new system doesn't have any more effects than the old one. The reason for developing the new system was precisely the desire to resolve the undesirable effects of the old system, particularly in the field of noise. Therefore, the rules for preferred job use have been drawn up. Of course, there are still effects on air quality and noise, but they can change locally. It may happen that one area is less disturbed and another area is a little more, but that comparison is always there. In the end, we want it to get better. We will also present a comparison of the effects of the new and old systems in the EIA. The EIA will come to you after the summer recess in conjunction with the LVB and the LIB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u88	A small remark in between, because tonight is the night of the names. It is Gra-uz, although we will not fall over it, it is Monasch, and it is Belháj, not Belhéj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u89	I'll never do it wrong again. It's good of you to remind me of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u90	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u91	Very good. Great. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u92	Van Helvert and Visser are going well, I thought. You know, I've been practicing on that for a long time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u93	Okay. I come to Mr Grashoff. That's also a tongue breaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u94	You have to put it out with double f. That's what we really want to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u95	Yes, Mr. Grashoff. He asked about the state of the art of the investigation, which is, by the way, a very serious subject about ultra-fine dust around Schiphol. I've been coming to talk about that for a while. The RIVM report states that no studies are available on health effects of exposure to ultra-fine substances. Therefore, RIVM recommended further research. Studies on health effects really take a lot of time, because you want to have lead times from at least one to one and a half years. I think it is important that we quickly have an initial picture of possible health risks for residents. That is why I asked RIVM to report on mortality rates in the Schiphol region and to compare those figures with those of socio-economically comparable areas without an airport. This will be reported in March/April of this year. Of course, it's only a limited investigation. It really won't answer all the questions. However, we get an initial picture, for example, of whether significant differences are visible. The RIVM will therefore indicate what these results will or will not yield in terms of the usefulness, necessity, design and feasibility of any new research. Then we are not just going to look at ultra-fine dust from aircraft, but at ultra-fine dust in general. Mr Smaling asked about the role of the government in developing alternatives to kerosene. That is an important theme. Sustainability, in particular biokerosin, is one of the pillars of our policy. With parties like KLM and Schiphol, we are committed to this through the Bioport for jet fuels programme in the Netherlands. We are one of the forerunners in Europe in the application of sustainable biokerosin. We have informed ICAO about our actions in this area and what they lead to CO reduction. Mr Grashoff asked if in the long term I could get the fossil fuel all the way out of the aviation sector. As has been said, the Netherlands really plays a leading role in reducing CO emissions in aviation. In doing so, we have really got the wind in the wind, even now with our Presidency and the Paris agreement. The development and application of this sustainable biokerosin is one of the key themes. Ingredients of biokerosin are permitted, I believe up to 50%. It is not necessary at the moment, I would like to say, for the time being, to go completely fossil-free. Scaling up the application of biokerosin in aviation is really necessary. We are also working on this in another framework, namely as a bioport for Europe. Mr Monasch and Mr Smaling asked if the CO standards were sufficient. I've just said a few things about that. The special situation was that the United States was actually a little higher up in the tree and more ambitious than the European continent. They have found each other somewhere on their way to ambition. I think that's very hopeful. I hope that this will make it possible, the other way around, for the United States to support, for example, the idea of the ETS. That way, of course, we can help each other. Then I get to my last block, the block remaining. Mr Smaling spoke about the Gulf States. Competition with the Gulf States is, of course, an important point for EU aviation. The European Aviation Summit we organised in January was very successful, although I say so myself. There were a lot of people. I'm not just saying that myself. Unsuspecting sources also say that. Not only were many ministers and the Commissioner present, but also representatives of many airlines and of many airports in Europe. We have discussed, among other things, the package proposed by the European Commission for negotiating mandates, including with the Gulf States, but also with Turkey, I say to Mrs Visser. We have said that it is necessary for us to start quickly, because in this way we can negotiate not only the traffic rights, but also the level playing field that we are so keen to see. Of course, the airlines themselves must also do something to strengthen their competitiveness. Mrs Visser asked about the SEO study, but I had no comprehensive letter in mind. I'd like to send in the investigation. By the way, that research is public; I think it's just on websites. The bilateral treaty that we now have, including with the United Arab Emirates, is a very liberal treaty, as I have pointed out in the answer to various parliamentary questions. That treaty is not the instrument on which we can base ourselves if we want things or not. If we think that there should be more discussion about, for example, the level playing field, or the idea that we should also ask those with whom we do business for our terms of reference, then we really should come up with a new mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u96	We'd like to receive the report. However, we are mainly concerned with the follow-up question. Last year, the predecessor of the Secretary of State said that it no longer grants landing rights to other Member States, such as the Gulf States, for the time being, in order to prevent unfair competition. She also said that she would sit down with her colleagues in order to ensure that they too would do so, pending a mandate and also pending the investigation. The question now is what is the position of the Netherlands with regard to the granting of landing rights. The Secretary of State discusses what can be done now, but my question is whether the moratorium agreed by her predecessor will be lifted or whether there will be another path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u97	The Chamber has been able to see what I have done, because I have dealt with this in detail in the answer to the questions. Those questions concerned a situation in which existing rights were involved. That's different from new rights. In my opinion, that is the difference between what Mrs Visser is asking of me now and the interpretation of what has previously been communicated. This was a request within existing landing rights. I do not therefore see a title to say, on the basis of the treaty we have concluded, that we cannot allow it. That is very carefully weighed, but that is the outcome of that weighting. If you're gonna make a decision, you're gonna have to be able to keep it up. Mrs Visser refers to a debate on new rights. As far as I'm aware, they're not on the agenda right now. It is important that we have established this with each other during the Aviation Summit that we start negotiating mandates very quickly. In the end, of course, it is much better for Europe to organise itself as a bloc in order to organise this type of negotiation for the whole of the European continent than for the Member States to go shopping individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u98	Indeed, it is not about existing rights. The agreement on this is quite clear. We have agreed on this in the past. It is about new rights, pending the mandate. That mandate is not yet in place. The predecessor of the Secretary of State on this file said that it does not grant new landing rights. However, she did not agree with the conculegas, colleagues in Europe, that they would do the same while awaiting the mandate. For example, new landing rights have been granted in France. In the Netherlands we keep the gate closed, while in other countries new landing rights are granted. The question is what is the Secretary of State's approach to the new landing rights? Is she still following the line set in earlier, or is another road being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u99	The short answer is yes. The comprehensive answer is that it is still very important to allow Europe to negotiate as one block for the mandate, because that is the most disciplined way of getting everyone back into the same atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u100	This is an important point, because that mandate is not yet in place. That's exactly the point. This Secretary of State's predecessor said that I am no longer granting landing rights. The mandate is not there, so what is the cabinet's approach to granting new landing rights to, for example, the Gulf carriers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u101	There is no new request to my knowledge now. By the way, that is another debate. If Mrs Visser wants to put that in extendos with me, I understand, but I'd rather not do that tonight. I have to come up with an extensive letter, when I had the impression that the parliamentary questions and their answers were very clear. I shall come back to that in the second term, because I have not been to all the debates that have taken place here with my predecessor. I understand that the current request for the A380, to be equally sharp, was about an issue within existing landing rights. That's really something other than a request for new landing rights. Furthermore, since my own arrival I have been trying to get everyone behind the idea of the mandate as much as possible; I would almost say: frappez toujours. We should put our energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u102	I have a question for clarity. I'm not sure what the Secretary of State will say to Qatar. If Qatar says tomorrow "we'll land here with new rights," can it or won't it be at Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u103	I'm not gonna take anything away from what my predecessor said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u104	So they can't land? They can't get an extension right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u105	This is gonna be very precise. You can't say generically that it shouldn't, because it's very important to see if it's about existing or new landing rights. Once again, I would like to have this debate with the Chamber at another time. Then I'll be much more precise in it, but that's how I'm in it now. I've promised the Chamber that that SEO report will be given. The Chamber knows that we are going for the mandate, what my predecessor has said and what restrictions we are facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u106	I'd like to add a point of order to the Secretary of State. We have also agreed, at the request of Mr Graus, that we will talk about KLM/Air France and that position in the short term. I would like to propose that this debate be included. We have had a visit from the Commissioner. He went to that conference. The subject is impregnating and important enough. Let us just include that in the debate. Then tonight we can concentrate on the current law. It is too important to raise this in one or two questions, and we would like to go much further into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u107	The question was how lowcost carriers and Gulf carriers have developed at Schiphol since 2008 and what this means for the mainport function. There are already a large number of airlines operating in the various market segments at Schiphol Airport, which offer flights in competition at many destinations. The European aviation market has been liberalised. That usually means that there is a great deal to be done, I say to Mrs Visser. That's what liberals do. It has also been established that EU carriers have the right to operate on all intra-European routes. When airlines apply for slots, they are assessed by an independent slot coordinator. The effects of the arrival of new companies will therefore depend on destinations, flight times, fares and so on. Such factors determine the extent to which competition is increasing for other airlines. I do not think the ticket tax suggested by Mr Grashoff is a good idea, because aviation is an international branch of sport. In the context of a level playing field, you must also take action as far as possible in an international context. That is why we are also pushing for another route that, I hope, is at least as effective, namely by setting CO standards in ICAO for aircraft, by market-based measures, i.e. an ETS-like system, and by promoting the use of biofuel. The international objective is to ensure that aviation becomes CO-neutral on a global scale. This is a huge task, given the growth forecasts of aviation in many parts of the world. With Mr Smaling, I say that social conditions are important. At the same time, airlines must be competitive. So that works both ways. In the end, this is a matter for the airlines and Schiphol Airport. As far as the importance of the high-speed network is concerned, I say yes, sometimes we can offer an alternative to aircraft with fast trains at short distances. However, the arrival of the low-cost carriers shows that the expectations used to be different from what the practice has now shown. Like Mr Smaling, and probably everyone else, I agree with the importance of going through the Single European Sky. The European Union's airspace needs to be more efficient. This is good for the economy and the environment. And yes, the package is stuck. That has to do with the diplomatic issue of Gibraltar. In itself, that is a bad thing; there is no doubt about it. This must be resolved by the Member States concerned, possibly with the support of the Commission and others. However, the more I say out loud, the less likely it is that there will be a solution. This also has to do with the fact that some things are solved more easily behind the scenes than when you speak about them openly. However, the importance of a breakthrough is evident. I got that right on my retina. Mr Graus asked about the motion for a future-proof aviation plan. We are indeed working on this through the Agenda for Action Schiphol, as I say in response to his motion. The Agenda for Action addresses actions by public authorities as well as stakeholders on the mainport. Once I have completed the decision-making process on measures and the Agenda for Action, we will come to the Chamber in spring. That won't be March anymore, it'll be April. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are indeed taking account of both the economy and society in all decisions. So that balance, which Mr Graus asked for, we are looking for. It is certainly part of this bill, which offers opportunities for further growth of Schiphol. It would be very nice if, for this reason, the Chamber could take a broad approach to supporting the legislative proposal before us. That is also very important for Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u108	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u109	Gra-uz, chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and commitments. As far as my motion is concerned, will the future-proof and competitive aviation plan be possible in April or May? I will not arrest the Secretary of State for that, but one thing has escaped me: the Airport Traffic Decision. The Secretary of State seems to have said when that comes to the Chamber in the veiling procedure, but I didn't hear that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u110	Yeah, that comes in a front, I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u111	The Secretary of State can't tell you when that's about to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u112	Yeah, after the summer. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u113	"After the summer" is of course a very broad concept. That basically means something from August to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u114	I don't think the snowflakes are gonna fall yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u115	By October?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u116	"After the summer" is also really after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u117	Mr Graus did not ask what year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u118	Just this year, so there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u119	I have to take care of that again for Mr Graus. So much for the government's term. Thank you very much for that. I'll see if there's any interest in a second term. Mr Smaling is in the back; that suggests that he is not interested in that? Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear statement. I've been wrestling with motions, but I've decided to spoil the Secretary of State by not submitting them. There are also some things that will come back to the debates that we are going to have. I hope that the Secretary of State, perhaps behind the scenes, can give the Single European Sky the necessary boost. The Presidency is also really an opportunity to do so. I have seen the Secretary of State in Paris travel many kilometres at the climate summit to bring parties together. I therefore appeal to her to use this quality in this case too, because it would be of great environmental concern if we could achieve that. I also wondered about the whole story about the United Arab Emirates, whether the Secretary of State is enough already. I also think that next time, but completely, because I believe that there really is a provision in the Treaty with the Emirates that it should not be market-distorting. Let's just park that and now confine ourselves to what this bill is about. And then I'd like to say that the SP will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u121	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her openness in answering the many questions that have been asked. So her reputation is right, in a positive sense, of course. I would also like to make two motions in addition to the two comments I made in my first term. With one motion, I'm gonna try one more time to hear from the Secretary of State why she's having so much trouble agreeing to it. However, I shall begin with a motion on modern information for residents of Schiphol. Mr President, I do not know whether I am supposed to read the whole motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u123	In Rotterdam it was read by the chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u124	No, the service doesn't go that far here. And certainly not with this chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u125	...so that's too bad. They're working harder there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u126	If you're looking for a pen to shorten your motion, I'll have it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u127	No, you don't. It's a lovely text. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new system of standards and enforcement is also introduced in order to make flight movements easier to understand for residents;]] [[Whereas modern, transparent and proactive information provision can be used to support local residents;]] [[considers that residents should be able to consult real-time information on flight movements, receive warnings for deviations and, where appropriate, submit complaints;]] [[calls on the government to use the introduction of the new system to develop a modern social media strategy, with the core of which is an application for smartphones and tablets that provides the above-mentioned functionalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34098-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u128	My second motion concerns the seat on the Environment Council. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas health risks to residents due to noise exposure and air pollution from aircraft should be an integral part of the deliberations of the Environment Council;]] [[noting that RIVM is currently only invited to the Environment Council on an occasional basis to advise on health risks;]] [[noting that in this way the importance of public health is not guaranteed to the same extent as the other interests in the Environment Council;]] [[calls on the government to establish an additional seat for medical experts on the Environment Council so that the importance of public health is also structurally secured in the Environment Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34098-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u129	I tabled the last motion because the answer of the Secretary of State did not make it quite clear what, apart from the fact that it is always possible to obtain expertise, the major objection would be to having an integral medical expertise at the table. Then you don't always have to ask for advice afterwards about the significance for people's health, but you do so on the table. So I come to the conclusion that this was my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u130	That's a big deal. Mr Van Helvert has the floor for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u131	Mr. Chairman. I had asked another question about the 50/50 approach, or the 50-50 approach in English; half of it. Does the Secretary of State perhaps see this as an idea for matters other than air traffic? Could this approach also be applied on roads, for example? I'll come back to the difference in numbers. Moreover, the figures I mentioned are from Annex 2 of the Alders Agreement, of which Mr A. was the chairman, as you know. The difference between the numbers is, I think, that the Secretary of State uses the bandwidths when I've taken the average of those bandwidths. That actually gives you something different numbers, but that doesn't really matter for the principle at the end of the day. For example, the extreme bandwidths taken by the Secretary of State are used in very severe weather conditions. When the wind comes very hard from one side, one orbit is used very little and the other very much. People generally won't complain about that. Everyone understands that if the weather is very bad, it's something different than normal. The average stays. That was presented to Uithoorn City Council last week. That's where the numbers I mentioned come back. I have the presentation here with me. The numbers accepted by the municipal councils of Uithoorn and Aalsmeer in 2010 are very different for start-ups. That number, which is very burdensome for the sound, is in the forecasts but actually many times higher than what was agreed in 2010. Then we are not even on the 510,000 or 500,000 flights that we would get. I can imagine these city councils saying, "Wait a minute, aren't we a little bought here?" I'm not here to interfere with the law. I am concerned that the Secretary of State says that if the government and Schiphol do not comply with the agreements they have made with municipalities, there must be a gesture to solve the problem. The municipalities are benevolent, as are the neighbors. They understand the situation. Then I'll join the Single European Sky. Mr Smaling mentioned it earlier. I did not do that in this debate. Together with Mrs Belhaj, I am the rapporteur. We have discussed with the Ministry how we can further strengthen the Secretary of State in this respect. I agree with Mr Smaling that it is very important and that it could lead to good results if we force a breakthrough in this process, especially in the six months that the Netherlands is President. Furthermore, air traffic controllers in the various countries have a role to play in this. We must also appeal to our air traffic controllers, whom we love and appreciate very much, together with their colleagues abroad. I am curious to see the Secretary of State's position on this. Since I'm not sure how the Secretary of State's gonna answer, I'm filing a motion on the jobs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in the number of aircraft movements is mainly due to the Aalsmeerbaan, which thus accounts for more than a fair share;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the increase in air traffic can be better distributed across runways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34098-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u132	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna read one motion later. I already announced it in my first term. I think I'm gonna file it for the third time now, but I'm gonna stick with it. Often here in The Hague, the owner wins. I have received some support from several professors and perhaps the Chamber will take a different look at my motions. The professors are coming our way, increasingly the PVV side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Schiphol can extend the simultaneous use of runways to 2+2,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34098-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u133	I've kept the motion rather short. It stands above 'heard the deliberations' and people can see what has been said about it. Then we can keep it short. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments I have given to my motion for a resolution on a competitive and future-proof aviation plan. In April/May 2016 we get a first reaction to this. The Airport Traffic Decision is also sent to the Chamber with a veil. That'll be after the summer recess and before the snowflakes. I do wonder when the first snowflakes will fall, because they may want to wait. We assume it will be somewhere in October. The Airport Transport Decision is essential for the PVV, as it will show possible disadvantages for the growth of Schiphol. Hopefully we can ride it out with a majority of the House. I wish you a very pleasant evening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u134	I'll be fine. I call Mrs Visser.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u135	With El Niño coming, you never know when the first snowflakes will fall this year. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive reply and, above all, for a number of concrete commitments she has made. It is very good that she has spoken here about the short term in relation to the transformation, housing and how we live and work in order to meet the aviation sector, which we do not unnecessarily put under pressure by imposing additional standards. As the Secretary of State himself pointed out, this has been discussed for a very long time. It has clearly expressed its willingness to do so very quickly. We therefore look forward to the short term, but above all to the longer term. Because this is going to be a challenge, when we see that a lot of people go to town and want to live there, but also that Schiphol wants to grow. I still have a number of questions and a suggestion in connection with the discussion on the Gulf carriers. The Secretary of State indicated that he intended just to send the investigation. Following the discussion just now during an interrupting debate and the suggestion of involving it in a subsequent debate, it would be good if the Secretary of State included in that report in particular the question of how we deal with new landing rights. In this way, we can directly involve this in the next debate on this issue. That's a suggestion to the Secretary of State. I can see her nodding, so I think she thinks this is a good idea. Another important point, I think, particularly for the municipalities of Aalsmeer and Uithoorn, which the Secretary of State has promised, is that it will take the last measure in order to reduce nuisances and that it intends to rebalance the compensation, i.e. the weight-and-weight balance, where it is possible and we can extend it. This is an important commitment, which gives clarity to both municipalities, which explicitly ask for it. I would like to emphasise a number of points in the resource and target debate. I started by saying that this law is the basis for us to look at how we can reduce noise in such a way that Schiphol can perform its operation properly. In this context, we also see, in the discussions we have just had, that it is very much about the use of jobs. In our view, this is always the wrong discussion. We can very much sit on the fourth runway use, on the peaks that we do not open up, which can lead to fewer restrictions. I understand that the Secretary of State says to wait for that EIA procedure, but I think it requires a mindshift, a change of mind and action, especially in the Schiphol Environment Council, which is still too much in the discussion of resources rather than objectives. In the context of the fourth job use after 2020 and the State Secretary's commitments in the context of what it does for that purpose, and if there are any problems, they are going to make an absolute effort to do so, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Schiphol has made significant efforts and has achieved results in the field of nuisance reduction;]] [[noting that Schiphol may not be able to obtain the remuneration as a growth space due to the volume reduction effect of the fourth runway rule;]] [[Whereas, in practice, this undermines the basic idea that the aviation sector may use part of the environmental gains achieved within the equivalence criteria for further growth;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the fourth runway rule in such a way that the aviation sector retains an incentive for innovation and can continue to achieve further volume growth within the equivalence criteria in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34098-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u136	I would like to make two final comments in connection with the discussion on the future scenarios of the PBL and the CPB. I hear the Secretary of State making a number of nuanced comments on the starting position and principles they have chosen in the calculation. I believe the Secretary of State in this matter, but the development is such that the aviation sector is growing. It also emphasizes the need for us to take decisions on how we intend to achieve this. I'd like to give that to the Secretary of State. Perhaps she could also go into the RIVM research she was talking about again, with a comparison with cities that do not have an airport. I'm trying to understand exactly what that's supposed to yield. Perhaps the Secretary of State could explain how this relates to the questions raised by certain parties in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u137	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and her support for the reply. That this has been a long process and that you can then at some point create some peace, the public gallery proves. I believe only Schiphol is there. It may be that the correspondent dinner was so competitive that everyone from Aalsmeer stayed at home for that, but I think it has been more crowded around this subject here in the hall and in the gallery. That might prove the success of a process that involves everyone. I'd like to emphasize a few things. My party and many colleagues have said that they want a finger on the wrist at the Aalsmeerbaan and the residents there. We continue to take that concern seriously. We look forward to returning reports on that. In order to show how fruitful cooperation with the VVD is, I will support not only the legislative proposal, but also the proposal that will not be entirely surprisingly advise my group to support Mrs Visser's two amendments. That's how far my mandate goes. Much has been said about the number of flight movements, always in relation to the number of passengers. I hope to get the simple commitment that we also see very clearly in the mainport agenda the place of air cargo and its position at Schiphol or within the mainport agenda. We need to talk not only about passengers, but also about that important aspect for the mainport position of Schiphol and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u138	After the suspension, we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Smaling for not having tabled any motions this evening, which is highly appreciated, and also for the support that the SP has promised for the legislative proposal. He said that maybe I wasn't quite clear enough at the point of the Emirates. I'm gonna try one more time. Of course, the Chamber also receives the SEO investigation. There is no doubt that we are going to have this debate with each other at another time. I've said it as clearly as possible, but it could still gain strength, so I'm gonna take another shot. The Dutch policy is not to grant any additional rights outside the rights given in existing treaties pending the preparation of the mandate in the European Union. That was the difference I also indicated towards Mrs Visser between new and existing landing rights. It is true that each country makes its own assessment. My predecessor and I have indeed brought this position to the attention of colleagues. But we do not have a title to prevent others from taking a little less interest in it. That is why it is very important that we start negotiating a mandate, because when that starts, no one is allowed to negotiate additional rights. This means that you have the instrument in your hands to stop this, as it were. We really need to move quickly to mandate negotiations now, and we are doing everything we can to do that. That's what I can say about it now. I do not want to create a fog in the sense that there would be a difference between what was said earlier and how I am in it. There's no difference. The difference is that not every country necessarily has to care about a call from us. That was Mrs Visser's specific point. I understand very well. She says that if the Netherlands does not grant new rights now, we must prevent other European Member States from doing so. That's right, but we can't force it. The moment we start negotiating a mandate, that discussion automatically stops for everyone. I'm afraid I can't be clearer than I am now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u140	The answer is pretty clear, but it does raise follow-up questions. Maybe the Secretary of State can't answer it now, but he can take it with her in her letter. The line is being fixed, but at some point you will get to the point that it could be detrimental to the airport Schiphol, because it misses potential customers. If the Netherlands uses this line, new customers will switch to anywhere in Europe. I also asked this question in my written set of questions. I would like to read back in the letter to what extent this is the case and what will be the point for the cabinet when it says that it will reconsider the positions if that negotiating mandate has not yet been settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u141	Indeed, I cannot pass that on to the Chamber tonight, not even because, on the basis of my intuition, I am not sure how sensible it is to make such an assessment public in advance. That also has an effect, of course. It is 'no regret' that we must reach a mandate in the Transport Council as soon as possible, because then other countries must also stop negotiating. I will go into more detail. This is not the debate on the legislative proposal as it is before us this evening. We will undoubtedly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u142	I just want to mark a point. "No regret," that's right, but it's going to be a "regret" if it's going to affect the position of Schiphol Airport, because we're ruling out certain customers. This is the call I'm making right now. The Secretary of State does not need to put the negotiating strategy on paper, but I do think it is an important point to highlight and take into account in this debate the further development, in order to also protect the position of Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u143	Sure. I understand that, too. I understand that very well. I come to Mrs Belhaj's contribution. You quickly established that my reputation is true, thank you for that. I hope that I will give you a positive opinion on the motion on item No. 10 to meet part of it. I think the idea of pooling all the information to the environment in one place is a good one. I have already supported your thinking in the debate. I believe that the motion supports the policy we are currently developing. A task force is active to further develop this effective and efficient information provision in the coming period. The motion in part No. I'd like to leave 10 to the House's judgment. Unfortunately, I cannot do this with the motion in part No. 11. I think I have already tried quite extensively in the debate to make it clear that the expertise is secure in itself, both through the environmental movement and through the residents, but also through the RIVM at the time it conducts research or becomes involved in the ORS if, for example, there are specific issues. There is no problem having them at the table, but that is really something other than a standing invitation. You really have to have a reason for that. I explained that I don't see that reason right now. That's a different judgment. We can also disagree on this. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u144	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I understand what the Secretary of State says. However, I do not understand the damage you do to someone the moment you decide to have them at the table. With this kind of discussion, it is sometimes very complicated to seek such advice only afterwards. There are other discussions at such a table. Just saying "by the way, we have asked for another opinion" means you have to start a whole discussion again. It has been evident that both air and noise cause health problems. I do not see what would be the problem of doing it very cleverly and taking it fully into the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u145	From the point of view of efficiency, I can also ask the other way around: what exactly is the problem with this proposal? Where expertise is needed, it can be requested. Furthermore, RIVM already carries out research that can benefit from it. I do not see the added value of a permanent seat in the ORS above the ability to call in the help of the RIVM at the time it is necessary. I am very pragmatic and that is why this is my consideration. Mr Van Helvert has asked a number of questions. First of all, he asked whether the 50-50 system could also apply to roads. I can't tell him that right now. I do know that the idea in other areas is to create space by reducing pollution and then to make part of that space your property again. I have, of course, organised this in such a way myself when dealing with the problem of nitrogen. If livestock farming makes a certain profit in reducing emissions, part of that profit can be entered as growth space. So the principle is common in our laws and regulations, but it is not up to me to say tonight that we should also organise it in a domain for which my colleague is responsible. So it's not new, because in that sense we know it. The numbers and numbers are actually incredibly complicated. In that sense, Mr Van Helvert is a bit right, as I am, and that only makes it more difficult. He told us that the 2010 forecasts differ from the 2013 forecasts. I can predict that they will also differ from the projections in the EIA. You can see in that last prognosis indeed an increase in the use of the Aalsmeerbaan. Moreover, the use of all other jobs is increasing and the most preferred jobs are always used more than the Aalsmeer job. The point I want to make is that he uses projections from 2010 and me from 2013, but in either case they are not agreements. It is information that is intended to provide insight into the expected growth. As has already been said, we will also make new forecasts in connection with the EIA, because it is important that it is always clear to the residents what the exact number of flight movements is. We will also re-assess the figures on the basis of the EIA. What Mr Van Helvert is asking for in the motion on item No. We actually did 615. That's why I have to discourage the motion. On the question of what we can do, I said in reply to Mrs Visser that we can do something in the context of the approach route above the runways. This means that you have to work to see how you can shape that so that it brings as little nuisance as possible. Furthermore, the tranches made available from the Livability Fund also play a role in this. That is my answer to a problem that is indeed there. If Mr Van Helvert wants something else, he will really have to deal with the dilemma, the Catch-22 if you like, that shifting the growth of the Aalsmeer job to other jobs will create even more obstacles. If it had been possible, of course it would have been done. It did not work and that is why we have come to the Chamber with the present proposal. Nor can I change or improve that proposal. That is the case, because growth means growth on all jobs. This growth is concentrated where it can best be absorbed and results in the least number of obstacles. Shifts lead to even more obstacles and then others pass here again. So I'm afraid it's not entirely avoidable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u146	When it comes to who is right, the Secretary of State or me, I see that the Secretary of State is already applying the fifty-fifty principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u148	That in itself is very nice to see. The Secretary of State says the numbers weren't agreements. Indeed, the forecasts were submitted in 2010 and agreements were made on this basis. They have been submitted to the city council and they have said: it is good; we agree with this. However, those projections are now starting to hang out in such a way that... Again, if you take the start and the landings up and down, it doesn't seem so bad, but if you look at the start that weighs the hardest, you can see that it hits mainly the Polderbaan. A forecast of 500 000 flights is also envisaged. That was not the idea at the time for Uithoorn and Aalsmeer. Mr President, excuse me for interrupting a little longer, but after this point I am done. I understand that we cannot say that we are going to move it, because then there are more obstacles. Even of these, Uithoorn and Aalsmeer say that they understand. If, however, this is the starting point on which it was said at the time that we would cooperate, but if we see that it is so out of control, then it is not justified that we should go back and say: what can we do in these cores? I don't want to pin anything on the Secretary of State, I just want to ask her if she wants to look at it with the regional directors in Uithoorn and Aalsmeer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u149	Perhaps it would be good for the historiography to note that the 2013 forecasts I mentioned were also in the final opinion of Alders and were endorsed by everyone, including those same municipalities. Mr Van Helvert comes up with figures on the basis of which he says: then they agreed, and it is different now. But I would just like to point out that they knew that in 2013. That was accepted at the time, and I am pleased that they wanted to do so. In fact, what Mr Van Helvert is asking for, namely to go back to the cores, has actually happened. What happened? We have been looking at how we could organise it precisely in the approach over that runway in such a way that there will still be as little nuisance as possible. In addition, there are the tranches of the Livability Fund. The first has already been made available. This is not a small amount of money; I should like to draw the House's attention to that. It's about big money. In addition, there is a second tranche. These are the instruments I have, and I honestly do not know what I should give on top of that. I am at the end of my options, I am afraid, and the Chamber must realize that. I don't want to pretend now that if I start talking again, suddenly I can get another rabbit out of the hat, because that rabbit isn't there. That hat's empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u150	We all understand that you can't change everything right away. You can't say we're doing it on another job, and then the problems are solved. But if someone bought a house at that runway in 2010 under the forecasts that were offered then, and if those forecasts prove to be so out of control, isn't it perfectly justified that there is a possibility for those people to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u151	I wouldn't say that. This brings me back to what has been said here in a broader sense. This is also true of Mr Smaling when he says how careful you should be with the habitation and building; I shall say something about that in a moment. You can also assume that people, if they live in such a location, know that they are near the airport. Those projections weren't hard deals. They were meant to visualize what was happening at the time. In 2013, there were new forecasts, which everyone agreed to. In a moment the EIA will come and new forecasts will come. If we decide here that there will be growth, it is growth that is going to happen on all these jobs. Otherwise you will have to make a completely different decision, but then Mr Van Helvert will end up with Mr Grashoff, and that is not his intention in this case, I think. There's the Livability Fund. We'll see what else we can do. This has exhausted the opportunities for action. That's the point. As regards the breakthrough with Single European Sky, I wholeheartedly support Mr Van Helvert's role as rapporteur. I think it could be very useful for Parliament and the cabinet to move in together. All the pressure that is possible is very, very welcome. I would therefore like to thank Mr Van Helvert in advance for his contribution. Then I come to Mr Graus' motion. Unfortunately, I have to discourage it, even though it is short and powerful. She's doing exactly what we said we wouldn't do that way. I can see why Mr Graus is proposing this because he is from the'maximum growth' section. That is, of course, achieved with this measure, but it does not fit into the balance as I see it. For that reason, unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion. I come to Mrs Visser's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u152	I understand the Secretary of State's detachment from my motion. There are also road pilots who have a voice. Schiphol has that, of course. It is even said that the maximum growth set at the Alderstable will not be achieved if you do not go to 2+2. The Secretary of State does not have to answer that now, but can she take it with her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u153	That brings me almost to Mrs Visser's motion. She asks something that is not quite the same, but it is in the same spirit, if I may translate it that way. She says: ensure that the fourth job scheme is implemented in such a way that your incentive to innovation is maintained to the maximum and that further volume growth can continue to be achieved in the future within the equivalence criteria. It is therefore asking for a very precise look at how this system can be worked out in such a way that we can keep that objective whole. I'd like to give you my word on that. I think that could be policy support. I would like to leave this motion to the House. Mr. Graus is like a butcher sturdier. That's how I know him. He's just saying it's got to be like this. And that's different from what we agreed. Mrs Visser's motion keeps a sharp finger on the wrist. I may recommend it in your warm interest. Mrs Visser's last point concerns the RIVM report. It's up to RIVM to determine how it does its own research. I can't decide that. I've already brought you in a little bit. It has actually said that there are no studies available on the effects of chronic exposure to ultraphine dust. We also do not know what health effects ultra-fine dust can lead to. That is why it has been said that further research is needed. That's what's gonna be done. In any event, RIVM will report to us on results of follow-up research in 2016. I'll just wait for that. Then you can also see the methodology again and what it does and what it does not. That is unknown to me at the moment. It's independent, so I guess we don't have to interfere with that. Then I come to Mr Monasch's contribution. On the Aalsmeerbaan, I have just expanded in the direction of Mr Van Helvert what can and cannot be done. The air freight issue he gives me in advance for the action agenda Schiphol. That's how I see it. I think it is important that we should certainly include that element in that. You can see it on the trail, too. It is tempting and right to pay a great deal of attention to passengers, but also freight transport, of course, has its own economic value and a contribution to the hub function in this case. So we will certainly have to recognise that. This brings me to the end of my second term contribution. I would like to thank the House very much in advance for such broad support for a legislative proposal that can also determine the role of the mainport in the Netherlands. It is gratifying to see that there is such a broad consensus on a subject that has led to politically heated debates in the past. I'm very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u154	Well, Mr. Smaling has something to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u155	Then I cheered too early, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u156	Obviously, you cheered too early. I call Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u157	It is the icing on the cake: I will not put the amendment on which the Secretary of State and I have been sitting to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u158	Fantastic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u159	The Smaling amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-10-tweedekamer-13.u160	So far. Next Tuesday we will be voting on the law, the amendments and the motions. All at home and thanks to the Secretary of State.
