ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State of the United States of America. As always in a 30-member debate, speaking time per group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. For families of people with dementia, learning difficulties or psychiatric problems, daily use and day care are of the utmost importance. It gives you moments of peace. It gives you a little time for yourself, which makes it easier to maintain care. These are also important for the people themselves. During daycare and daily spending work is being done on memory training and social skills. The knife cuts both ways. At the same time, the sounds that indicate that things are not going well are getting louder. Today, Alzheimer's Netherlands is coming out with a study that shows that municipalities are cutting down on day centres for people with dementia. The offer increases, while the own contributions increase considerably and the municipalities purchase less daily spending. You're hoping the Secretary of State will intervene today. For more than a year now, our research has shown that in general too little day care and daily spending is being bought in. And if they are bought in, they do so at low rates. That doesn't really mean that we can't actually send it here. You're wondering if the next race to the bottom is going on. I heard today the Secretary of State finally admit it in the area of home care, domestic help. I predict that if we don't do something, the next race to the bottom is coming. Their own contributions are so high that people refrain from daily spending. This is evident from the investigation that Homeland Administration published two weeks ago. You have to realize that if daily spending becomes a so-called general provision, municipalities may charge the cost to people with an income from 120% of the statutory minimum wage. This Secretary of State often comes no further than saying that he "follows developments" and that he "keeps ten fingers on the wrist." In conclusion, he says: for the time being, I have no reason to assume that the continuity of support is at stake. How different is the reality for many vulnerable people, and specifically today, for people with dementia and for their caregivers. I could say a lot more, because I still have considerable speaking time, but it is actually simple. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to do something, and then structuralally. I have the following questions. Does he want to tackle those municipalities that have not bought enough respite care and daily spending? Does he want to investigate the rates of the contracted daycare and daily spending? Is there enough money paid to deliver quality? Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that people with heavier health care questions, i.e. those with a diagnosis, such as dementia, can be provided with tailor-made services of a sufficient quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u3	I think Mrs Keijzer is right to raise the problem again today. I see that the debate was put on the agenda a year ago, but it is still topical. Mrs Keijzer said that more needs to be done for certain people, those with heavier care questions for whom daily spending is needed. She thinks, for example, of people with dementia. Does she want to see a kind of right to that care arranged for them, so that this can be achieved in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u4	I think the Secretary of State will soon say that municipalities regulate daily spending and that there are general provisions that people can use. A general daycare facility, a coffee walk-in in the district centre, is good for many people, for example for those who are lonely or have contact problems. However, if dementia, mental disability or psychiatric care are needed, you cannot be satisfied with volunteers alone. Then you have to think about a certain quality, and it costs money. In the Wmo it is not sufficiently arranged. We have had extensive debates here on the Wmo. The CDA has submitted a number of proposals. They didn't make it back then, but you're running into this right now. This week we discussed an initiative proposal tabled by Mr Leijten. I think that is what Mr Van Gerven is referring to. It said that we should come up with some sort of basic package. Whatever you call it, we can talk about that. I did not think the way Mrs Leijten proposed was sensible. If, however, it is established that someone has dementia, let us ensure that there is access to customization, day-use, if he or she so wishes. If someone doesn't want it and is satisfied with the walk-in morning at the district center, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u5	I think Mrs Keijzer describes it very accurately and correctly. But then there is the question of how we are going to achieve this. The Secretary of State has announced a General Administrative Measure for household care. The AMvB is about quality and rates for home care. Wouldn't it be good if we did the same for the right to organise good daily spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u6	The General Measure of Governance announced by the Secretary of State was still news today, when I thought we had known for some time. The AMvB is about the award of the tender for the purchase of care, so what rate should be offered. In the AMvB there are several parameters to arrive at a good price and a tender. That's good. That is what I said in my speech. Local authorities often pay too little for part-time daily spending. So that's good. If I have understood correctly that the Secretary of State is not only looking at domestic aid, but also at other forms of care and support, that is good. The CDA has suggested this several times. However, my proposal concerns the entrance for people who are dependent on care. Now municipalities can refer them to the general provision. If people have a diagnosis, if it is clear that there is really more going on than just need for contact, for example, if there is dementia, you should be able to claim a tailor-made provision with corresponding quality and a personal contribution that fits your income and wealth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, the CDA asked for a debate on the purchase of daily consumption. Last year it turned out that municipalities were very short on tariffs. Now, a year later, it appears once again that access to daily consumption has deteriorated and quality has decreased. Moreover, daily spending has become expensive. That's not crazy, because of the randomness and legal inequality that takes place within the Wmo 2015. Each municipality deals differently with the organisation of daily spending. Although this is not bad in itself, clear frameworks are needed. For example, my colleague Leijten, yesterday, in her own initiative paper entitled Wmo 2015, proposed better jobs to include, among other things, daily spending in the basic municipal package, so that legal inequality and arbitrariness between municipalities can be resolved. Although the Secretary of State does not support this plan, he has to acknowledge that his policy is crumbling. Access to care is becoming increasingly complicated by municipal freedom, higher own contributions and finally the arbitrary provision between the various municipalities. As long as the Secretary of State does not want to accept the solutions of the SP, he himself must come up with concrete actions to ensure that no one loses the care and support he needs. The disappearance of day-to-day spending increases the risks of aggregation and neglect, the reversal of day-to-night rhythm and overload of carers. Does the Secretary of State also acknowledge this and what will he do to prevent people from losing their daily spending? Or does he shift that responsibility back to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u8	The day before yesterday we had a debate in the Chamber on Mr Leijten's own-initiative proposal. It calls for a basic provision in the Wmo, but points out that it is important that municipalities have a great deal of policy freedom, that they can determine how things are going and can measure the best tailor-made care for those who need it. I just heard Mr Van Gerven say something completely different. Actually, he said that this municipal policy freedom is causing it to deteriorate and that it doesn't happen properly. He indirectly pleads for no policy freedom for municipalities. Perhaps it would be useful if the SP could clarify what it stands for with regard to the freedom of policy for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u9	Mrs Leijten's own-initiative paper goes less far, as Mr Potters rightly pointed out. If we had 76 seats in the Chamber, we would like to see that right to care very clearly anchored nationwide, but we are not going to make it today. With this own-initiative paper, we have sought ways of moving things forward and making it a little bit better at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u10	Don't you want to scare me like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u11	76 seats for the SP, so some people are a little freaked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u12	I know: for some it's a blessing, for others it's a hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u13	That's right, and we're gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u14	But this is not an answer. In my opinion, the SP should now clearly state where it stands. Or you opt for policy freedom for municipalities, which I think Mr Leijten clearly indicated in her plea and which I am a real supporter of. At the time, I thought, "At last, the SP is heading in the right direction." Whether you choose this unclear story of the SP, in which it concerns something more or less direction. Where are you standing? Do you agree with your own colleague and do you insist on the policy freedom of municipalities or do you want to go to a basic provision, a kind of collective sickness fund, and do you not want to give municipalities any freedom of policy at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u15	We are in favour of policy freedom in implementation. I do not know whether Mr Potters knows that we tabled an amendment not so long ago to anchor the right to care. The fact that the SP is very much in favour of this can therefore not be something new for Mr Potters. In research we read that the quality of daily spending varies. More and more volunteers and fewer professionals are being deployed. The rates are too low. The Secretary of State is now presenting a General Management Measure for Home Care. It is unclear to me whether it includes daily spending. After all, good rates for daily use and good working conditions for caregivers are also very important. Can the Secretary of State clarify this? I have a few more questions. How many professionals have lost their jobs during the past year in day-use or guidance? Can the Secretary of State find out how many locations have been closed down? What about the walk-in function in the ggz? He threatened to disappear last year, but what's she like now? Transport to daily consumption has changed, but in what way? We hear disturbing reports about this, so what is the state of play? And what about the guidance during the transport to the daily consumption? Finally. The daily use is an essential part of the day. She is important to people with care or with a support question. She can't be turned upside down because the austerity bill has to knock. People's care should be paramount. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Will the Secretary of State draw up an action plan to ensure access to daily consumption? Is he gonna fix the right to care or are we gonna be sent back in today with a brat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u16	Mr. Chairman. Daily spending is crucial to ensure that people can stay at home for longer without being isolated or isolated. Daily spending also gives meaning to life and ensures that people interact with others. Also, daily spending on carers can give some breathing space. That is why she is of great importance to my party. The report published today by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows that there are many changes in daily spending. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State: what is the situation with regard to daily spending? Several colleagues have already asked a lot of questions about this. I agree with that. I would also like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to the entire report by Alzheimer's Netherlands. How, for example, is the position and commitment of volunteers going? One of the signals from Alzheimer's Netherlands is that there seems to be a decline in the use of daily consumption. Can the Secretary of State indicate if he recognizes these signals? What causes this decline? Do people, for example, know how to find the daily spending? Does he also have any idea of the consequences of the decline in daily spending, such as isolation? In 2016, 110 million extra will be used to improve quality in nursing homes. This money can be used for meaningful day-to-day spending and staff expertise. We have indicated in an earlier debate that we consider it important for nursing homes themselves to implement this in consultation with clients. How's that going? I would also like to mention another point: the qualitative and quantitative occupation of nursing homes. In the period before, during and after the daily use it is important that caregivers and nurses receive signals of malnutrition and that they assess medication. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about that. We have already asked for this in previous debates. In what way is that secured? My group tabled a motion in December in response to signals that day-to-day spending is too often offered when a general provision is made instead of customisation for children with autism, for example, or for people with non-congenital brain injury. We asked in the motion whether the Secretary of State would like to talk to the VNG. In some situations, just specialist knowledge is needed, and also individual daily spending rather than a general provision. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, I have one final question. The Secretary of State promised a year ago that intimacy and sexuality in nursing and nursing homes would be discussed with the field of work and the professional organisations. Has this already happened and what steps are being taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u17	I hear Mrs Bergkamp say that there are situations where customisation is needed, where quality and professionalism are needed. At the same time, she asked the Secretary of State about the situation. We know that. We know that it is not good for people with dementia. See the report of Alzheimer's Netherlands. What are solution directions for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u18	I have indicated that there may sometimes be a general provision in day-to-day spending, but that in some situations specialist daily spending is necessary. In this context, I have mentioned examples of children with autism and adults with non-congenital brain injury. And sometimes, when it comes to children with autism, individual daily spending is necessary. We saw this coming and were worried about it before. That is why we tabled a motion at the end of last year in which we asked the Secretary of State about the state of play and asked him to talk to the UNG. That is why I asked the Secretary of State about the implementation of the motion. So what did D66 do? D66 recognized the signals in good time and tabled a motion. And we're now asking how that motion was carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u19	Mrs Bergkamp speaks of timely. I asked for this debate last March. That's when the first messages came in. In recent times, we have constantly seen examples that show that it is not settled. Today again! Alzheimer's Netherlands indicates that it is precisely in situations where there is a diagnosis of non-congenital brain injury, autism, dementia that professionalism, quality and customization are needed. I do know what's going on with the execution of the motion. It's probably been the subject of a conversation or that conversation will come soon. And then we've talked to each other, then the problem gets recognized, but it doesn't solve anything. So once again, what is D66 going to do to ensure that what she says here is important, namely a quality day care and daily spending, is really achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u20	D66 has a little bit more confidence and also thinks it nice to ask the Secretary of State what is going on with the implementation of a motion. Looking at the municipalities, I know what Mrs Keijzer's plans are with regard to anchoring. I think it's a good thing we're asking the Secretary of State what's going on with that. I fully agree that we need to adjust if the picture arises that too often general provisions are prescribed when customisation is needed. However, it is a decentralised responsibility and we must be careful not to come back from The Hague with all kinds of legislation and regulations. However, I tabled a motion on this in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u21	If I have listened to Mrs Bergkamp correctly, she also had questions about signals about staffing in institutions. She asked whether there was no shortage of it, in quantitative or qualitative terms or both. Can the Commission go into this again and answer the question as to whether an occupation standard would not be a suitable solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u22	Thank you to Mr Van Gerven for this question. We have been told by the Secretary of State that an additional 110 million is being spent on day-to-day spending and on staff expertise. Did that money end up in the nursing homes right now? Has it been discussed with client councils? We have had a debate on this before. Unlike the SP, we believe that we should not come up with all kinds of business standards and this is really part of the management of an organisation itself. I can't wait to see if that money ends up okay. This week we talked to the unions about the training money and whether it ends well. We understand that a great many training plans are being made, but that the money does not always end up with the people for whom it is intended. If the SP invites the Secretary of State to be more specific, we can agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u23	All right, I understand that we differ on the occupation standard. However, I also understand that there are problems with spending money on training. Has Mrs Bergkamp also received any signals about understaffing or closure for day-sharing because there is no staff available? Then we also have something concrete to tell the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u24	I have no specific signals from individual organizations. At work visits you hear people's stories at some point. Things are going well and sometimes they can do things with more people and sometimes with fewer people. So I find it difficult to answer the question of the SP as to what is happening now with the occupation in organisations. This varies and we also see this in general consultation on the labour market, for example. What we can perhaps find each other in is that money for education goes to the people and that we are also going to look a little more critically at what that money is being spent on, or those are things that really improve the quality of care. We can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u25	Mr. Chairman. Developing or harnessing your talents, increasing your self-confidence, contacting other people that makes you less lonely, or as a caregiver for a moment of time and space for yourself, allowing you to last longer to take care of your family member. Daily spending ensures that this is possible. With good daily spending, people can stay at home longer in their familiar surroundings. The PvdA wants room for new forms of daily spending, preferably as much as possible in the neighbourhood and in accessible places that people already know, for example in community centers or sports clubs. We want people not to be tucked away in separate buildings, but that daily spending is as much as possible part of ordinary society, that if you have an intellectual disability, you help in the supermarket or in the restaurant around the corner, and that as a former fareweller you remain involved in your football club, even if you are dealing with dementia yourself. Sometimes you can volunteer and be a client at the same time. This fits our ideal of an inclusive society: together as much as possible and not separately. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on with these new forms of daily spending? Can he indicate where and how this is happening and how he can stimulate it? The PvdA also wants more room for control and initiatives of people themselves. Together with GroenLinks we have amended a right to challenge in the Wmo. This will give citizens the opportunity to take the initiative themselves to organise care and therefore also day-to-day spending. You see in more and more places that people set up a care corporation to do that. This results in beautiful combinations, which are often even more advantageous than the old forms of daily spending. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he encourages such initiatives and how he can make them an example for other municipalities? There are also, of course, signs of shortages of good daily spending. That was the reason for this debate when it was requested a year ago. Of course, the PvdA takes these signals very seriously. Can the Secretary of State give an idea of what is going on with the purchase of daily spending by municipalities? Aren't there any people falling between shore and ship? This has been the subject of special attention in this debate. Some people, because of their limitations, really need specialized daily spending. Then a nearby facility sometimes is not enough. I am indeed thinking of people with non-congenital brain injury or with certain types of dementia. How are we going to ensure that specialist daily spending continues for those who need it? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I'm rounding up. Day-time spending is incredibly important. As far as the PvdA is concerned, daily spending is as close to the neighbourhood as possible, in combination with facilities where people actually encounter each other. Then people who spend the day are still part of society as much as possible, taking into account, of course, those who really need specialised daily spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u26	Mr Van Dijk can always tell us how the ideal would look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u28	Then I always think: it is of course beautiful when it can be in the neighborhood, close by, the former farewell judge who at the football association receives the people and drinks coffee with it. However, Mr Van Dijk also says that there are people who need specialist daily spending. Think of people with diagnoses, as they call them. Uncongenital brain injury, autism, people with dementia. Mr Van Dijk says that this specialist daily expenditure should also be maintained for them, but my question is: how? How does the PvdA see that? Mr Van Dijk is of the same party as the Secretary of State, but Mr Van Dijk is here as a representative and co-legislator, so surely he has ideas as to how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u29	I welcome Mrs Keijzer's first remark that idealism is falling apart. I think that is why we have all gone into politics, all of us, because we have ideals and we know what we want society to look like. Mrs Keijzer is a former alderman, and so am I, as well as several members of this committee. Then you see those combinations of people who are part of society. I sincerely believe in that, and that will get you excited, inspired and very warm. At the same time, I also see that there are people who really need specialised daily spending. If only we could say here from The Hague: this applies to diagnoses A, B or C, and to Mrs A, B or C. You don't know that. Sometimes someone with learning difficulties can help very well in the neighborhood. There are also wonderful examples of people with dementia who can help others. But sometimes it doesn't work. It's really a matter of personal contact. Only then can you say: in one situation it can be close and close, and in another situation it cannot be. Then we'll have to arrange something else for that, but we're really not gonna be able to do that from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u30	It is a pity that there is no idealism in Mr Van Dijk on that part. So you get reports like the report we received today from Alzheimer's Netherlands. There is a need for specialist daily spending, because the problem is getting more and more serious; people stay at home longer. Then there is no daily spending, or the quality of what is, is not good, because the daily spending is run by volunteers. What you read in that report is that people don't dare bring their demented father or mother, or man or woman, to that day's spending, because that doesn't really feel safe anymore. Then I would also like some idealism from the PvdA group to at least in the law or in any other way, I would very much like to hear from Mr Van Dijk how to ensure that this quality can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u31	In my opinion, we share the ideal that daily spending is suitable for people, preferably in the neighbourhood, preferably close, preferably new, perhaps even with forms of control of people themselves. In some cases, this requires something specific and specialised. We have the ideal to achieve this. It is a bit special that a PvdA man says this to a CDA man; the CDA is generally in favour of subsidiarity in his own circle and of trying to solve things together; only as an ultimatum remedium does it want to do so with national laws and regulations. I'm not saying it wouldn't be necessary, but first of all, I don't know at this time how, and who, and what diagnosis, and which mister and ma'am. We have deposited it with municipalities to look together with patient organisations, municipal councils and clients at what can be done nearby and where it is necessary to specialize. I also think municipalities should just do that. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u32	Yes, Mrs. Keijzer, you were addressed a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u33	It was a bit of entrapment, I admit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u34	Go ahead, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u35	There is also such a thing as the starting point of public justice. That's one from the CDA, too. This means that it must be predictable for people what they can count on. That is no longer the case. One of the CDA's major criticisms of the new Wmo is that people have insufficient legal certainty, insufficient knowledge of what they can count on. I hear Mr Van Dijk now saying that this is something that needs to be settled at local authorities. Nevertheless, Mr Van Dijk also intervenes at other times, for example when it comes to the race to the bottom in home care. The report by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows an upcoming race to the bottom in daily spending. Is the PvdA going to intervene in that respect? Is Mr Van Dijk going to do something about this and do something about the quality of daily spending, especially for the people of whom Mr Van Dijk also says they need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u36	Sure. Public justice is a principle which, in my opinion, regulates several parties, which is called, of course, almost all parties here. It is not the exclusive domain of the central government, by the way. It could also be the local government. In fact, since we are almost making it an ideological debate, public justice is something that I think every citizen should have in his daily functioning as leitmotiv. When it comes to the purchase of daily consumption, the municipalities can't just make a mess of it. They have a duty, also with the new AMvB, to adhere to quality standards and decent tariffs. Of course, some of us are already taking action to make this possible and to regulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u37	Thank you very much. May I give the floor to Mr Potters on behalf of the VVD Group? Then we will see whether the ideological trapeze work will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u38	I'm very curious too! Mr. Chairman. With the reform of long-term care, an important step has been taken in improving the quality of care, strengthening the self-direction of people in need of care and making the cost of care sustainable. It is good to continue to look closely at how this reform is working in practice. Last year, during a debate, the Secretary of State undertook to investigate the new forms, rates and variants of daily spending and daily spending of people with dementia. A report published by Movie shows that innovation takes place in daily spending, for example through a combination of different forms of daily spending or a combination of daily spending with well-being. From my own experience as a former alderman I know how much profit there is to achieve by combining different forms of daily spending. The Secretary of State wants to table with municipalities to ensure that the innovative forms of daily spending and guidance continue to exist. However, it remains a responsibility for municipalities to finance day-to-day spending activities in such a way that good care and support can be provided to people who really need it. As far as the VVD is concerned, meaningful daily spending can be an important aspect in the lives of many people who receive care and support. Daily spending activates and stimulates people with disabilities, while at the same time it can be an important feces for the carers. For the VVD, continuity of care is paramount, even when it comes to day-to-day spending. It has not yet been found that it has been compromised. In view of the above, this debate should not have been held as far as I am concerned, and we could have involved this issue in the various general discussions over recent years on the progress of the transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u39	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see that the Secretary of State can reply immediately and I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. It has been said in various keys this evening that municipalities have and have been given an important responsibility for supporting the self-reliance and participation of the people who depend on this support. In order to allow people to stay as independent as possible, it is necessary for the municipality to set up appropriate facilities. I think it is a very good thing, perhaps especially in the field of daily spending, that we have given municipalities the responsibility to arrange good support tailored to the people themselves, to the neighbourhood and to the nature of the demand. After all, it is important to arrange them very close to the people. This requires a number of preconditions. It must be clear where people can go for that support. We've talked about that a few times. Support should be accessible and should respond to the real needs of people, because people are different. Let us look at the past of daily spending and how it is now developing. I will come back to that later. We then see that the classic forms of daily spending, to put it this way, which we knew, do not always match the needs anymore. We have seen situations where people had to travel for miles every morning with a van to a location far away from where they lived, while sometimes there were much better alternatives, sometimes literally and figuratively, around the corner, just close to home within walking distance or at a very short distance. There are sometimes alternatives in which people's potential is exploited, looking at what they want and what they could still do, using the power of people's environment and the social network, and indeed involving volunteers. That's the core of the Wmo. I have general and specific confidence that aldermen, who want to take care of their citizens, especially the most vulnerable citizens, feel that responsibility. I can see that in all the conversations I have with the aldermen, especially in the field of daily spending. If you look at what developments are taking place in day-to-day spending, I think you can conclude on the one hand that there are no signs that day-to-day spending has been put under a lot of pressure and on the other hand that it is changing. I would point out that a report was issued in November by the knowledge centre Movisie, a publication with all kinds of examples. You can get a few things out of that. Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk have asked where we stand on this point. You can see in the first place that the daily spending is organized differently. Municipalities and providers invest in new combinations of care and well-being and in new combinations of well-being and work. For example, a healthcare company from Down-Leeuwen uses the concept of "care" in a very special way, which looks at the talents of everyone. We can see that day-to-day spending is being organized more closely, as I said earlier: more tailor-made work in the neighbourhood, which also saves costs for transport for both municipalities and clients. We see in the report that the participants themselves also take more responsibility and get to fill in the daily spending themselves, where that can be done. Facilities in the neighbourhood can count on greater involvement of local residents and willingness to contribute as a volunteer. I refer to living room groups in Den Bosch. This is a nice initiative in which the neighbourhood is much more involved with vulnerable people with accessible facilities. I also mention the meeting places of Don Bosco Apeldoorn, where professionals are present and also many volunteers from the neighborhood. Sometimes it's about a cup of coffee, sometimes it's about welfare activities and sometimes it's very intensive conversations with partners of demented people, which lead to those partners feeling much more supported than when only day-to-day spending was arranged. We see more thought being given to, and more forms coming for sheltered work for people with disabilities. In the big cities there are many examples of ways in which this gets concrete hands and feet. I call Amersfoort, where the Work and Income Service does the access call for the WML and about the support demand for adults. The combination is therefore made directly at the intake. I would also like to mention the example in Amsterdam, where one third of clients in daily work do not pay their own contribution, but rather receive a voluntary contribution because they are now also involved in a number of tasks. Customisation is required for specific groups. That has already been discussed a few times. We need to get rid of one size for everyone. For the ggz target group, the running-in function is very important for some. There must be an accessible facility for them. Let me give you some good examples. In Hilversum, for people with mental problems, there is simply a simple, accessible access facility. There these people can participate in a number of activities. However, there is also professional assistance there for specific activities if necessary. There are also many new and different forms for dementia. I call it the Memory House in Houses. Carers and participants can go there together. They decide the daily spending and organise for the group what they want and can do. They are independent, but there is support from professionals and indeed from volunteers. I can go on like this for a while, but I'm actually optimistic about this. The daily use is no longer organized in the classic way. I can very well imagine that an organisation would be challenged if it organized day-use in the traditional way and now faced with these changes. Some react in a very progressive way. They are being challenged to think and to think about a new way in which that day's spending can be shaped. It's not gonna happen overnight, but you're gonna see it change. Diversity is increasing. That is a good thing. I've been looking at these developments myself. We kind of asked the G32 about that. We asked: how do you do that in your congregations? You'll see the footage I sketched come back. Different forms are emerging, diversity is emerging and different rates are also emerging. There are specialist rates where required and general rates if required. Perhaps it would be nice and nice if I could just send that analysis of what is happening in this area in the G32 at the next progress report to the Chamber. He'll be in the Chamber in a month. In this way, members can see what is happening in the G32 and how that diversity develops. In short, we are far from there, but the change is happening. I voted in favour of this. I also see that municipalities are incredibly intensive in thinking about how they can shape this diversity. More volunteers are involved and professionals are recruited where necessary. I come to a few specific questions. Mrs Keijzer and Mr Van Gerven asked whether the AMvB in question was also applicable to daily consumption. The answer to that question is 'yes', because it concerns the purchase of the municipalities. This means that the good purchasing conditions also relate to this. Mrs Bergkamp specifically asked about the day-use in the nursing homes. I don't have a final picture of that yet. We have of course only just begun, in 2016. However, I would point out that we have tried to give this as light as possible. We will not come up with new plans again, but we have said that we must ensure that this has been discussed with the client council and with the staff. I don't have a final picture of this yet. If I do, I'll be happy to include that in the progress reports. I am therefore seeking to give the municipalities real confidence and space to organise specialist care where possible, particularly in the field of day-to-day spending, and also to organise general facilities where possible. I want a good combination of volunteers on the one hand and professionals on the other. That's the essence of the thought. We have to keep an eye on each other that this combination is essential. We have to keep in mind that we may have to get a little rid of the classic forms of daily spending. Of course, we keep a close eye on each other. For this purpose, agreement has been reached on progress reports. I have already told the Chamber that I want to give her a picture of what is happening in the G32 in this area. Mrs Bergkamp asked a specific question, namely about the needs of sex in nursing homes. I'm saying it's a bit of a blunt. I don't have the last picture of that. I will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u41	In my first term, I said to the Secretary of State: please do not come up with all kinds of good initiatives and new types of day care that see welfare work. But that's what the Secretary of State did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u42	We've all heard that. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u43	That's what the Secretary of State does, and then he says he's confident and he's gonna be okay. However, a report by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows the opposite. How long will it take for the Secretary of State to actually do something for those people with dementia, non-congenital brain injury and mental disabilities, for those people in psychiatry and the like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u44	We don't have to wait for that at all, because that's happening every day now. What has changed is that specific forms for specific target groups are now sometimes organised in a different way. That's what I just said. Sometimes this happens in combination with well-being and care. Sometimes there is a combination of volunteers and professionals present. Perhaps we should all get used to the idea that we go from classic forms of daily spending, sometimes with different target groups, to different forms and a different way of organizing. This has implications for the existing offer. In some cases, there is no new offer. However, when I look at the developments in the report that Movisie outlines, and when I look at the inventory of what is happening in the G32, my conclusion is that I am optimistic about that. There is a change in the existing offer and the funds are no longer spent in the same way in the same organisations as before. That is also reflected in the report. However, this does not mean that there is no new and different offer. And that offer is perhaps much better and much more tailor-made for the people involved. A good combination with the neighborhood is now sought in many places, with well-being and care, with volunteers and with the expert professionals needed for specific target groups. And in those places, I see fantastic forms emerging. Perhaps we should be a little more enthusiastic and ambitious towards all those aldermen who are working on this in the intentions of the law that we have put here. I would therefore call on Mrs Keijzer to have a little more faith in those aldermen. They are, moreover, increasingly not of the same political colour as this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u45	It's all so predictable! Anyway, there are indeed good initiatives. The Secretary of State can't hear me say anything other than that. It is classy that we organise expensive daily spending, which is really nothing but a meeting for people who are lonely, in a different way. Very good work is being done there. However, I am talking about something else. The report by Alzheimer's Netherlands is about something else. It's about people with a diagnosis with serious problems. In addition, you need quality. I make one last attempt: does the Secretary of State see that and is he prepared to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u46	I've been in quite a few low-threshold walk-in facilities targeting people with dementia diagnosis. Those were people with early dementia and people with advanced dementia. There were people there in the presence of their relatives and carers and there were people alone. Sometimes the target group was just dementias, sometimes there was a combination with other target groups. I've seen some really great examples of it. That doesn't mean we're already here and it's all done. However, I think that we should welcome this development. It is my appeal to Mrs Keijzer to give a chance together to the innovation opportunities we are seeing and need to be developed. And, of course, we have to keep a close eye on the quality and, of course, we have to look at how we can further promote it. Mr Van Dijk's proposal is not only to analyse what is happening, but also to make these analyses available to all municipalities. The VNG is also actively working on this, together with the big cities. So I can't help it, but I'm optimistic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u47	I recognize the optimism of many aldermen and I also recognise the beautiful developments in the field of daily spending. There must also be room for municipalities to further shape this. I recognize and share the appeal of the Secretary of State. However, I do have one more question. In December I tabled a motion for a resolution because I received signals that in practice there is sometimes a reference to general provisions, although customisation and a specialist provision are needed. Mrs Keijzer also expressed this in her own way. I would ask the Secretary of State to look more closely at this and get back to that in the progress reports. That's also consistent with the motion. There are really examples of people with non-congenital brain injury who end up spending the day together with people with intellectual disabilities, and that is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u48	I certainly want to do that, perhaps in two ways. On the one hand, in the progress reports and, on the other hand, in the analysis of the G32. Then we have a generic and a more specific picture. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u49	Thank you. I think the President is wondering what I want to ask now. The problems arise not only in the larger municipalities, but also in the periphery. That's a bit uncomfortable, but the Secretary of State understands what I mean by that. I'm talking about Drenthe, for example. There is a little less possibility when it comes to day-to-day spending. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to look not only at the larger municipalities, but also at the small municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u51	The Secretary of State made a speech this evening. I think it is a good thing that the General Measure of Management takes into account the daily expenditure. I understand it's about purchasing in relation to care covered by the Wmo. That's good. The Secretary of State then comes up with a number of examples in which things are going well. The perception of the field, of the people who get the care, is another. Alzheimer's Netherlands says the following: quality and support are under pressure from working with fewer professionals, more volunteers and disruption of activities; one third of providers are forced to work more with volunteers, while they consider professionals necessary. That doesn't match the Secretary of State's story. He says that certain provisions disappear and are replaced by other modalities. That's possible. Everything changes. However, this is a provision which is deemed necessary. So it stays, but there's a discrepancy. Can the Secretary of State comment on this finding of Alzheimer's Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u52	It's kind of how you appreciate people's daily spending and need. If a daily use provider organises dementia in a different way, for example with more volunteers, this can be seen as a discrepancy, especially by the one who used to be a provider. I find that another way of organizing is not always a diminution, but perhaps an enrichment. Why? For example, because it is not just about the person who has dementia and is involved in a number of activities with peers, but also about the partner. He's in contact with fellow fates, and the neighborhood is also involved. So I would not like to say in advance that the transition from a specialist approach to a more general approach involving volunteers and professionals in day-to-day spending is a diminution. It can be an enrichment and lead to more quality. Although the definition of "quality" is different, I find that the people who take part in it may be happier than with the more classical form. I do not therefore make any judgment as to which form is best. That will be a bit different for every neighborhood and neighborhood, but I wouldn't necessarily describe this as an impoverishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u53	The Secretary of State's gonna pass judgment anyway. He says that where professionals have been removed because they apparently couldn't be paid anymore and volunteers have been deployed, this can lead to equally good and perhaps better care, more tailored care. In my opinion, you may conclude from that that the professionals who did their work were obviously redundant. Doesn't the Secretary of State qualify these professionals? Isn't the real reason why healthcare providers lack money to keep up decent daily spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u54	The funny thing is that you seem to draw that conclusion from my words, when that wasn't even in my head. It's just how you perceive it. Saying that organizing with professionals, volunteers and others from the neighborhood can lead to very good and beautiful care does not mean that I have a qualification as to how the professionals worked and work. Those professionals do good, praiseworthy and mighty fine work. By the way, they can be used with much more daily spending and perhaps also in many more places, so you have a much more diverse range of daily spending. This means that the professionals can be deployed more widely and perhaps in more locations and that you have a lot more daily spending locations where you can organize very good daily spending in combination. We could all get on with it. The President looks at me now as if he is saying: that is an optimistic view. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u55	With these cheerful words, we have come to the end of the cabinet's contribution in the first term. Is there a need for a second term? I see that the first speaker, Mrs Keijzer, is in any case in need of that. Otherwise, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u56	Mr. Chairman. In my first term and in my interruption, I tried to convince the Secretary of State that it is necessary to do something to ensure that day-to-day spending for people with more serious problems meets certain quality conditions. I didn't do it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that day-to-day spending, accommodation and respite care are part of the Social Support Act 2015;]] [[noting that in many municipalities daily spending and guidance are only offered as a general provision;]] [[Whereas the provision of all kinds of daily expenditure as a general provision leads to negative consequences, for example for the quality level but also for the level of the own contribution, namely the payment of the cost;]] [[Considers that, among other things, people diagnosed with dementia may need a well-functioning tailor-made provision, as Alzheimer's Netherlands research demonstrates;]] [[Calls on the Government to adapt the Social Support Act in such a way that, in the case of heavier health care questions and target groups and associated diagnoses such as dementia, it is in principle possible to claim customised services such as day-to-day spending, sleep-care and grace care that meet certain quality requirements;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u57	Really respect, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u58	I heard you say it, but it's changed by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u59	Fantastic. It's about leaving out "so" for the word "that." Really pay tribute to our chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u60	Mr. Chairman. I have one general comment for the VVD Group. We have just had a debate on general practitioners, on the manifesto entitled The helm must be changed. We are now having a debate on daily spending. The essence of the VVD spokesmen's speech is, in fact, that these debates are unnecessary. The Minister for Health did not really show any willingness to have a proper debate. I note that this is actually unworthy of Parliament. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u61	Perhaps Mr Van Gerven thinks 'I will make the debate even more exciting', but he should use the words 'Parliamentary unworthy' if he really means it. If he means this, we will meet more often in debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u62	I hope we meet more often in a debate. You were here. I therefore believe that you should participate fully in the debate. We agreed that this parliamentary debate would be held. I find it simply unworthy of a Parliamentary or a parliamentarians to say that everything is already discussed and settled and that the debate is unnecessary. That certainly applies to a Member of the largest group, this Chamber, which is also very important for the policy we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u63	Of course, you are talking about your own words, but these are very heavy words. That's what I'm really charging you with. You will really be affected by that when you are debating with me, because I am going to be very careful about what you are going to say. I think I've done my full part. I said that day-to-day spending is an important part of the Wmo, that we should pay close attention to it and that we welcome the progress made and are satisfied with the way in which the Secretary of State deals with day-to-day spending. That may be said. Those aren't your words. You usually debate here with half a bottle of vinegar. We may, but we are simply positive about this development. I'd really like to leave it at that. But this, this is really gonna get another tail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u64	I didn't drink any vinegar myself. Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u65	We shouldn't, because drinking vinegar doesn't work out for you. I was concerned about Mr Potters' last words that this debate is actually superfluous. That really bothered me. It's a sum. The spokesperson in the previous debate was slightly less extensive than Mr Potters, but I am disturbed that this attitude is being expressed here. It's some kind of arrogance, and I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u66	Mr Potters, you are being addressed. If you want to respond, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u67	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u68	You've had the chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u69	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State did take the trouble to agree, although I disagree with his anointing words. He is a master at covering the whole thing nicely and positively, but the reality is still a bit more uncomfortable. That's why I signed off on the CDA motion. There have been two more questions left. Can the Secretary of State still comment on the running-in function in the ggz, which is under pressure? What exactly is it like? I have also asked how the transport to day-to-day use is arranged. We're getting signals that this isn't working out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u70	Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Dijk and Mr Potters do not speak. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u71	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven asked a specific question about the running-in function. This walk-in function is indeed important for people with psychiatric problems. For them, there must be accessible facilities. Municipalities have been given resources to offer the running-in function for the ggz, the former AWBZ function. I have tried to point out that there are now good examples of this. I assume that we can go into that in the overview we are going to offer. I refer to the G32 and the general progress report. We've been talking about the transportation to the daily business. It is being considered whether day-to-day spending can be organised more closely, thus reducing transport costs, which also leads to tariff adjustment. This also means, of course, that there are problems of adjustment, such as when the rates are being adjusted, whether they can be brought down or still have to wait. This is a problem in all the municipalities. The Chamber will also be able to observe this in the review. In the Keijzer/Van Gerven motion to item No. 106 there are a few observations that I simply do not share, such as 'whereas the provision of all kinds of daily consumption as a general provision leads to negative consequences (...)'. I'm more optimistic about that. I have indicated that where there is a need for specific support, there should be it, whether or not in combination with volunteers. I do not think it is appropriate to amend the law immediately after the end of the year. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-18.u72	I propose that we vote on the motion next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence and his answers.
