ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Good education policy comes about when those who are at the centre of education, students, parents and teachers are involved in the policy and have a strong voice in it. For example, participation ensures that the money ends up in the right place. In this house, for example, this is always rightly a major concern... that education is flexible and that the quality of education goes up. Without friction, no shine. Educational institutions that organise their counter-force and their horizontal accountability well can expect a lot of space from the government. I have heard too many times in the debate and I have read too much in the Minister's letter: the law makes it possible. It was then a question of powers that could have the participation and participation that would be possible. But you don't make laws for situations where everything goes well, but for situations where people don't get along. Then we must be absolutely clear on what the rights are. I'm repeating myself, but I have to. At the moment, the driver decides how strong his counter-play is. That is not only remarkable, but also reprehensible. It's not okay. Today we have the opportunity to raise the legal minimum of participation on a number of points, so that, even in the institutions where this is not going well, the co-determination councils know very well what their rights are and they can use them. In substance, I shall be voting in favour of this amendment. 35 on the right of assent to adapt the main lines of the budget for primary and secondary education by analogy with the adjustment that will also be made to the MBO. This means that the principle is laid down in the law, but that its elaboration will take place in an AMvB. The Minister and I agree that the impact in primary and secondary education is different from that in MBO, and there again something different from that in higher education. Of course, there must be this effect in the foreseeable future. I hope that such an amendment will receive the agreement of the Minister or, if not, of the majority of this Chamber. I am maintaining the amendments to item No. 25 over theassessor, in part No. 32 on the apprenticeship councils, and I shall, if necessary, amend that amendment in view of the debate we had here with the Minister on item No. 26 on the inclusion of the allocation model in these main lines, in part No. 31 on control over decision-making on housing and in part No. 33 on the merging and elimination of training. Moreover, an amended amendment has already been introduced, which puts it purely at the central level, thus removing an important objection from the Minister. Finally, I have an amendment to item No. 28 to change the title of the bill into: law strengthening administrative power and participation. That amendment has not yet been discussed. I will withdraw that amendment. I hope it will be the last vote, because then it must really be true. It depends on the vote on the amendments tabled. This also applies to our possible support for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	There are amendments, including those tabled by Mr Van Meenen, concerning the merging and elimination of training. The amendment only affects higher education. I have tabled an amendment which also regulates the MBO. Has Mr Van Meenen accidentally forgotten the MBO, does he have a different view of it or does he simply support my amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	I didn't forget that by accident, because I'll never forget the MBO. That's always in my mind, even as a former MBO teacher. I am also very interested in Mr Grashoff's amendment. After this debate, I think we need a little time to see what exactly we are going to merge. Any proposal that helps to achieve this, I will support. I am therefore happy to discuss this with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. The debate makes it clear that the Minister himself does not want to change much. She largely clings to her original law, which, as far as I'm concerned, is a missed opportunity. She believes more in the change of culture than in the structure. But what good is a thriving culture if the government doesn't feel like it? Every control will then be crushed. This was evident at Leiden University, but also at other institutions made a mess of it: the real estate disaster of ROC Leiden, the diploma fraud at Inholland, the scaling up of Amarantis and, last but not least, the power policy of the former UvA administration. The protest came to a climax in the Virgin House. The whole country showed understanding. Today is the opportunity to recover things; things that have been wrongly dealt with in the past. Many amendments have been tabled. That is a bit harsh, but I think it simply shows that the law is inadequate. The Minister could have done it herself, but she leaves it to the Chamber. In addition, there are many more possibilities that we have not talked about today. The Minister mentioned them for a moment: in certain places people are looking at what else can be done besides strengthening participation, with referendums, student panels, elections and so on. The Minister wants to support that, and I appreciate that, because there is still much more to be done than to strengthen participation. I ask the Minister how she will support these initiatives. An experiment with a democratic university seems extremely useful to me. It's for learning, even for the critics. For the possibilities see my note Up to the new university. We differ on this law: one wants more control, the other less. However, one thing is certain: this debate is still a celebration of democracy. More than ever, it's up to the Chamber. The room is divided. On the one hand, we have the conservative camp, led by Mr Duisenberg, which lingers in the 1990s. A camp that applauds the minister when she says she'd rather have a good conversation than more control. I rest my case. It is ruled by fear: fear of change, fear of more control, fear of a thriving educational institution, fear of schools and universities where there is a lively debate about the direction of the institution and where the board is serving the main players. I'd say to that camp, what are you afraid of? Look at your own work. We have a lively debate here, and we will make a democratic decision in the near future. There's nothing wrong with that. You can do that in education. On the other hand, there is the progressive camp, the camp that is open to change and that wants to give more influence to the people who it is, because a school is a community where people make their decisions together. Sovereignty in its own circle must appeal to certain parties. A number of parties play a crucial role in these camps; they can provide a majority. I ask them to think: what do they stand for? I would like to quote Mr Bruins: 'I think it is important that participation can provide a sound response and that the workplace is closely linked to the top of educational institutions. You can't manage good education from above. This requires a strong bottom-up involvement." These remarks have been taken from my heart. Let it not just be fine words, but turn it into support for a number of crucial amendments. Room's up. Finally, I shall table a few motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at the University of Amsterdam a committee on Democratisation and Decentralisation has been set up, which comes forward with proposals for more democracy at the UvA;]] [[Whereas democratisation should not be limited to universities;]] [[calls on the government, by analogy with the UvA Committee, to set up a national advisory committee (including lecturers, professors, students and students) which makes proposals for democratisation, from primary school to university,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	I ask Mr Van Dijk if he has any cover for this. I have just said that the budget for this party at the UvA is five tons. If you go to 50 institutions for higher education alone, you're at 25 million if you're going to have the same party everywhere. So what is the cover in this motion for this national party of Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	If we were to use this arithmetic example for all kinds of things in politics, we would be very expensive out. 25 million... I do not know what kind of committee Mr Duisenberg is thinking. Setting up a committee doesn't have to cost a lot of money. So I'm not worried about that at all; we'll figure that out. The point is that we think further than today's debate on a single law of this minister, which hopefully strengthens some of the rights of participation. I think there is much more to think about outside that framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	I am pleased to hear Mr Van Dijk say that setting up a committee does not have to cost a lot of money. So he agrees with me that five tons for a committee full of friends and friends of his is a ridiculous amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr Duisenberg combines all kinds of things. I have a motion here proposing that a committee be set up to investigate what is even more possible for democracy in education. Money is absolutely not a decisive point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the school is a community of all concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to establish that the co-decision council will be able to issue a binding referendum on all matters on which the co-decision council has the right of assent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that education is regularly plagued by financial problems caused by reckless real estate investment;]] [[calls on the government to investigate how real estate can be placed outside the lumpsum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for reading part of my text, because that saves me time again. So I thank him for that quote. I am indeed looking for balance, clear roles, tasks and mandates, and also for sufficient reply from participation. Indeed, good education cannot be managed from above. This requires strong involvement by professionals in the workplace, but the board has to control; so clear roles! I now turn to the law and the whole series of amendments. The Christian Union welcomes the fact that co-determination councils are legally entitled to vote on the main lines of the budget, including in sectors other than higher education. I am very sorry that, as the Minister's response shows, the po and vo have to wait until 2020, so until the funding system has been simplified. I am very much in favour of the average teacher reading complicated financial tables. So give the professional at the workplace, the primary school teacher, a faster chance to get consent and not just four years from now. All the colleagues here who can help me do that have my support. The new law also provides for recruitment with public profiles for supervisory functions. In addition, there will be regular consultation between supervision and participation and more control over the appointment and dismissal of directors. It also ensures that participation has access to training and facilities. The Christian Union wants to put a little bit more on that. We want participation to be given a place in the application committee for the boards of directors. This morning we were called by the youth organisations CDJA and PerspectiveF to work on this. I can therefore say that Mr Rog and I have decided to broaden the text of our earlier amendment. We want to give the students a place not only in the recruitment committees for directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	I'll take the last one right away. That's a good idea. I'm actually standing here for two reasons. The first is that I find it honorable to be the first in the Parliament's annals to interrupt Mr Bruins in this Chamber. The second reason relates to the issue of the right of assent on the main lines of action. I have just said in my speech that I will also amend my amendment by analogy with the adaptation that will take place before the MBO, with the principle being laid down in the law, but its elaboration will take place in an AMvB, of course with a real but somewhat near time. Is that a method that Mr Bruins can share?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	If this leads to a faster introduction than 2020, Mr Van Meenen can count on my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	The Christian Union will support the amendment on fee-free administration. The student assessor has already come up with a lot. The Christian Union is not in favour of the mandatory introduction of a student assessor at institution level. She does see a lot in broadening possibilities for assemblers. The Christian Union is therefore in favour of the mandatory inclusion of the student assessor at the faculty level or cluster level within the HBO, just as within universities, for which this is regulated by law in Article 9.12 (2) of the WHW. In fact, we would like to table an amendment which also regulates this legally. I hope that this is an intermediate form to which colleagues can give their agreement, and perhaps the Minister can also give it 'judgement chamber', given her opinion on the other amendment. The subject of secondary education in this debate is little, but it is also very important. The participation of pupils in vocational training can be improved. I have therefore tabled an amendment aimed at requiring the inclusion of student participation policies in the school guide. I am very curious to see what the Minister will say about my new explanation in the second term. As has already been said, the Christian Union believes that participation in other types of education than higher education should also have the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. I tend to follow Mr Van Meenen in that. We propose that the obligation to notify be removed, so that internal counterpower is strengthened and no rolling blur takes place. I appreciate the Minister's leaving the verdict to the Chamber. Finally, I would like to highlight the commitment that lifelong learning will become a permanent part of the annual plans of the supervisory boards. We are very pleased with that. So I will not table a motion on this, but I will table the next motion on the whistleblowers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Education Inspection should be open to signals from employees or members of the Supervisory Board about serious shortcomings in educational institutions;]] [[Whereas the whistle-blower scheme for state officials and the police states that whistle-blowers are protected from harm;]] [[considers that it is desirable that whistleblowers in education should also be protected from possible disadvantage, for example when a change in the employment position takes place in response to the notification;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which whistleblowers can be protected, in the Education Inspectorate or elsewhere, against disadvantage and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	The amendment tabled by Mr Bruins is a watered-down version of the amendments tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis on the appointment of directors and my amendment on the appointment of directors. It is good that Mr Bruins now says that students should also play a role in this. Well, at least that makes this a little bit more crazy. May I ask Mr Bruins a question? I believe that the amendment he is proposing will result in students and teachers being a minority in the application committee. Did I get that correctly? Furthermore, there is neither a binding nomination nor a right of assent for participation. Doesn't this mean that it's actually using a rather weak tool?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	The most important thing is for teachers and students to have the opportunity to look and question all candidates who appear before application committees. At the moment, an application committee comes after a whole process with the candidate who prefers it. I know that from experience. The participation council will then have the opportunity to have a chat with this candidate. I want to get rid of that. I think that participation should be in that room and should be able to see and question all the candidates; is that man or woman cut out of the right stone, does that man or woman, the driver who is coming here, really still know what education is about? That conversation has to take place. I want a lecturer and a student to be there and to talk fully about it. Whether that is half or a minority depends on the number of persons making up an application committee, but at least two seats will be occupied by representatives of staff and students. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	Does Mr Bruins not agree with me that this at least entails the risk that an application committee will consist of five or more people and that the actual discussion will therefore remain entirely under the table? Then there is the risk of windowdressing: it looks very nice, but in practice the influence of participation is no longer significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u17	What I fear is that participation does not take part in the application procedure. I want to fix that with this amendment. I want her to sit with me, talk live and look the candidates in the eye. I think Mr Van Dijk underestimates the teachers when he says they're getting a little snowy. They can decide who goes there, a strong person who speaks on behalf of the staff or on behalf of the students, or a student himself. They can put people there who are not snowed under and who keep the interests of students and teachers in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u18	The latter is, of course, a matter of trust. It is very nice to trust that that voice is firm and that it is actually heard. But what do you do if that voice isn't heard? I think that is also a bit of a central issue in today's debate. What do you do when a board does not want to listen to the teachers and students appreciated by Mr Bruins? Is it not up to us to build a firm right for that today? Mr Bruins supports the right of assent on the budget, which I appreciate very much, but then we should also have the right of assent on the board, which has such an important role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u19	An application committee is generally a good method for getting a good selection. That's where a number one candidate comes out. Participation is not talking about this at the moment. When you talk about that, you get a lot of influence and you are a full member of that application committee. I do not so much see the split that Mr Van Dijk describes, as if there were two kinds of interests in such an application committee. On a committee like this, you'll all get out. From that comes a joint presentation. If there are things where participation does not agree, it has every chance to make that clear in committee, or even in the presentation. I see no reason to extend that to a right of assent for participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u20	The latter, of course, is not correct. They do have the opportunity to be heard loud and clear, but they can simply be overruled by a majority of supervisory board members if that committee consists of five members. In Amsterdam, for example, this is now literally the case. Where's your emergency brake if that new board isn't worn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u21	You're suggesting we need an emergency brake. They had that emergency brake in Amsterdam and they grabbed it. On the contrary, I want to extend the possibilities. Right now, there's no emergency brake. I think we shouldn't talk about emergency brakes, we should talk about how we're gonna get this conversation going. I think it is very important that there should be full participation in the application committee. For me, it may be two out of four or two out of five, but then the staff and student delegations will be involved in a thorough discussion so that we can look at who is made of the right material and whether the people at the top really have an eye for the students and teachers in the workplace. That is a great step forward. I would therefore like to speak out for this amendment and get it through the Chamber by a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first answer. The VVD's commitment to this bill is and was that this will be a good bill and that it will lead to decision-making within education that focuses on the quality of education. With 'quality' I also mean diversity, profiling, the agility of institutions and, above all, ambition. That is why we have pursued a number of things, which I would like to mention. Firstly, the obligation to notify should be amended from the current legislative proposal. When I look around like that, I think the Chamber's gonna do it. Secondly, the VVD wants to avert the tsunami to sixty-six amendments of constipated distrust, in order to ensure that the left-wing mediocrity that I have just mentioned does not kill off ambition. Thirdly, many things in the legislative proposal, as it is now going to look, are well regulated: a cost compensation for participation; a role in the appointment profiles; the legal commitment of pupil participation, according to Mr Bruins' amendment and myself; and, of course, the training committees, according to Mr Mohandis's 'crucial' amendment, which I would like to table together with Mr Mohandis. If I have listened carefully to the debate, I think most of the recommendations will be accepted. This is the subject of an amended amendment. Fourthly, I would also like to mention the crucial amendment on free tuition. This is very important in order to be able to develop alongside your studies and to be able to commit to governance or participation. Fifthly, I have heard a clear answer from the Minister on the level of knowledge and education of directors and supervisors. We just had a little interrupting about what this looks like in concrete terms, what will be in the codes and how the accountability will eventually be shaped by the supervisory boards. It seems that this is being put into practice, and I am very positive about that. I'd like to get confirmation of that in the second term. Sixthly, we talked about liability. It is also important that this liability is properly regulated. We discussed Mr Beertema's amendment, which the VVD is very positive about. However, it is a difficult consideration, given the quality of the legislation and the fact that there is another legislative proposal. Do you have to deal with this now with an amendment, or should you wait a little longer and arrange it later via the route of the Council of State, the Second and the First Chamber? However, it has been a long time. Since I would nevertheless like to state that urgency on the issue of liability, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas various financial and educational debacles could have taken place at, for example, Amarantis and ROC Leiden through inappropriate governance and inappropriate supervision;]] [[Whereas the directors and supervisors responsible for the improper administration and supervision could not be held liable;]] [[having noted that a legislative proposal has been submitted which further elaborates the rules on the liability of directors and supervisors in, inter alia, the semi-public sector and the internet consultation of this bill already concluded in May 2014;]] [[expresses the wish to implement the legislative amendment as from 1 January 2017;]] [[calls on the government to share the bill with the Chamber as soon as possible, at least before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog, Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u23	I am sorry that the amendment to item No. 45 of the PVV has not been included in the list of key amendments tabled by Mr Duisenberg. I thought he agreed with me that all this participation is not going to improve governance, but that it is a question of a lack of morality. That amendment is so crucial, because it keeps all those drivers who choose the wrong path much more in the claws. If, in my second term, I can convince Mr Duisenberg that the amendment that is now at V and J is not driving the legislative process at all, but that it is just an additional addition that simply gives much more hands and feet to the enforcement and implementation of education, would he not consider supporting this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u24	Indeed, I fully agree with the principles. We also consider this liability to be crucial. Let me put it this way: I shall go all the way to voting to look positively at your amendment. However, I would like to see careful legislation. This is a complex legal amendment. The same applies to the other legislation that is coming. I want to be able to judge things properly. In the debate between you and the Minister there were some questions. So I can't really see it, and that's why I don't think it's careful to just vote for an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u25	Of course, the Minister isn't about it. You're about it. I'm hoping for your support later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u26	I hear Mr Duisenberg talking about a tsunami of democratisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u27	And about left mediocrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u28	And about left mediocrity. A tsunami is an all-destructive tidal wave. This should be placed in the context of the discussion in which the Minister also said that in the 1990s the pendulum might have slipped a little too far into an authoritarian administration that was under-controlled. That's what I call it, quite translated. All the examples of abuses that have been raised here come from that period and not from the period before, where there has been stronger democratic control at educational institutions. I know Mr Duisenberg as a legitimate democrat. Can he explain to me in this house of democracy where this enormous fear of democracy comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr Duisenberg, very briefly. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u30	We have been debating it for almost two days now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yeah, I was just about to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Grashoff and his colleagues on the left want the mistrust to solidify in laws and regulations, and I do not believe in that. I think you should hold on to what's going on right now. You have to make the most of that and make sure it works properly. You should also just stick to the roles that have been agreed. You just have to make sure they're filled out properly. Legislation is not the problem, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u33	I have, I would almost say, the rhetorical question: who would be suspicious, Mr Duisenberg, who is suspicious of democratic principles or Mr Grashoff, who says 'I have faith in those democratic principles but I do think that the directors should be properly controlled'? That seems to me better than trying to send people away with liability afterwards, because that is the pit dampening when the calf has drowned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's a nice little bridge to my final words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr Van Dijk wants to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr Duisenberg is a bit of the captain of the anti-confidence front. I would almost like to ask the President what she thinks now that someone who is a Member of Parliament of Parliament, of course, is giving up an ultimate democrat on democracy and power in education. An example! Anyway, let's see what we might still owe to the VVD. What does Mr Duisenberg think of the amendment to item No. 47 of Members Rog and Bruins to put at least one representative of the staff and a student on that application committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u37	We are already dealing with the amendment to item No. 47? It's a hell of a count. Of course, there's a lot of bullshit. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u38	That is about your own amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u39	I still have to submit my voting opinions to my group. So I'd like to keep that under review. I believe that this amendment is at least a little more realistic than the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u40	The point is this. Members Rog and Bruins have now made their own alternative to the application committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u41	The alternative. That's something you should appeal to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u42	On the other hand, there is a fine amendment to make the application committee fifty-fifty, so 50% of that committee consists of staff and students and 50% consists of members of the supervisory board. If Mr Duisenberg does not support either of these amendments, then nothing will get through at all. That would be a shame, wouldn't it? So, Mr Duisenberg, you are also becoming very important in this debate in a very strange way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u43	That I may become important again in this debate! And that from Mr Van Dijk's mouth, great!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u44	Please continue. I understand you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u45	I would just like to make a small bridge to Mr Grashoff's comment. All in all, if I look at this bill from the perspective of the VVD and look at the likely course of the votes, it could be a good bill. So that will also depend on the votes next Tuesday. Finally, I would like to make one final comment. In the end, it is about quality and ambition in education. Every time I have the echo in my head of the students, students, teachers and administrators who are doing well, who have ambitions but who also say: whatever you are thinking of in The Hague, what is coming, please don't do it! I made a call in the debate last week. That's what I'm doing here again. Let us not thwart the ambitious plans from The Hague, but rather put them into their power. Let us ensure that existing laws and rules function properly and are used. Let's not put up a Christmas tree full of rights. Today's goal is not to spread control, but to achieve world-class education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u46	Here a contradiction is created that is not mine. I would like to return to Mr Duisenberg's first term. At that time he made it very clear that he agreed under duress to the right of assent on the broad lines of the budgets in higher education. He didn't like it, he doesn't want it, but yes, the introduction of the loan system was more important to him. It could just happen that this is going to happen for the other sectors after the treatment. So what's the VVD gonna do? Does the VVD then agree, for example in view of the good experiences? Or is it so essential that Mr Duisenberg really lets us know what he thinks? Or is he gonna vote in favour and we're gonna hear later that he was actually against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u47	As in the first period, I would once again say that I would very much regret that decision. But that's democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u48	That's not the answer to my question. My question is what it means to judge the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u49	I have said that I have to weigh the whole of it, depending on how the votes proceed. Again, if a lot of that bullshit comes through, I don't think it's an interesting law anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u50	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr Mohandis has another question. You'll have to be on time. You're still so young, so you can come to the interrupting microphone very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u52	In Mr Duisenberg's speech I hear a contradiction between the left and the right. I hear him talking about the right-wing mediocrity that only believes in some sort of dreamy culture and is afraid to do something about the structure. But that's all that's left. My question is this. Mr Duisenberg is talking about left-wing nonsense. I would like a little more clarification on what proposals he really thinks are bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think you've been debating this bill for two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u54	It's a serious question, Mr. Chairman. There are amendments from D66, the Labour Party separately, the SP separately and together with GroenLinks. I would like to know what Mr Duisenberg finds interesting and what it is that he says: if it goes that way, then I will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u55	Perhaps you could answer on my behalf, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u56	This question has been asked a few times. Mr Duisenberg said: I am going to weigh it up within my group. In fact, we are now repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u57	I think Mr Mohandis knows exactly where I stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first term, in which she has been manoeuvred in an extremely balanced manner by a 'cargo of amendments' from the Chamber. That's the term I used in the first term. If we listen carefully to that and let it work well on us, I think there can be an excellent overall picture. In any case, the CDA Group has a positive attitude towards this bill. I have already said this in the first term. I would like to weigh the bill on two elements. The first is that we want to remove the obligation to notify. As I have tasted the Chamber and the cabinet advice, I am confident that it will no longer be part of this law. My group welcomes that. I have also indicated that, in seeking an answer to the perplexed idea of profitability, we must be careful not to fall into a perplexed thinking of democratisation. There are a number of amendments which do show this. For my group, it is important that they do not enter into this law. If I now taste a little bit of what we come up with, I am confident that it is a beautiful and balanced story. The law actually aims to strengthen supervision and ensure that serious incidents, such as those at ROC Leiden, Amarantis, and all those horrible stories, no longer occur. At the same time, this law has been used to re-dress the participation which was stripped of by the purple neoliberal cabinet in the 1990s. In one of the amendments tabled by my party, staffing is given more influence in the application committee. We've decided to add a student member to that. We have done so after discussions with student organisations, but also with our youth organisation, the CDJA. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union spoke about this from his perspective; he spoke with his youth organisation Perspectief. I think that is a step forward, especially when we realise that a lot of students' rights are still unused. I would mention one of these: the right of assent to the institutional plan. But this law also regulates an enormous amount of rights that students and teachers will soon receive. I would like to mention a few: participation in the administrative appointment, consultation between the MR and the supervisory board, the right to compensation from the MR, the MR who can invoke the nullity of unjustified decisions, consent rights for training committees, tuition fees-free boards, student participation and therefore a teacher, but also a student on the application committee. Indeed, 3 February will henceforth be a national holiday for student organisations and student directors. I think that with this law we are right on the one hand to strengthen supervision and on the other hand we have taken the opportunity to give balanced consideration to participation. That means that, assuming we come somewhere in the middle, I am strongly considering advising my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u59	A short question, Mr Mohandis, because at 3.30 p.m. a debate on the personal budget is on the agenda and I see the people in the public gallery who have come back specifically for that. I therefore urge you to be wary of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u60	That was an interesting speech by Mr Rog. An appeal has been made today by the youth organisations of CDA and Christian Union. They do indeed call on Mr Rog to look at student representation. That's a good step. They also plead for the strengthening of the information position of participation and the legal anchoring of the assessor. Mr Rog has previously supported a motion on this subject. What does he think of these two points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u61	It is good that Mr Mohandis also pays attention to this. The youth organisations of CDA and Christian Union have raised a number of issues. They have said, for example, that they want to strengthen their position as students through that horrible loan system. They have indeed raised the issue of the student representative. We have accepted this in our amendment. That leaves two elements. As far as the student assessor is concerned, I have already made it clear at first reading that my group will not support this. As regards strengthening the information position, I would like to point out that some interesting comments have been made by the Minister. I'm going to weigh that in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. I have just said it in an interrupting debate with Mr Duisenberg: you may wonder where the fear and mistrust that arise in a part of this Chamber, the democratic assembly, arise from or against the proper regulation of democracy within our educational institutions. This is a tradition that we have traditionally had in this country, a tradition that may not be good in every respect, but in a number of ways it is. And that, when we know that a whole series of things that we are now looking at with horror have been on the agenda at a time when, thanks to too little control by the government of the state, the minister himself, too little internal democratic control could do things that we now all regret. This means that our party regards a move towards greater democratization in education as a positive development, which we welcome and which we can fully support. However, the question arises as to whether the Minister's proposal was empty or full or half empty or half full. I have to say that what the Minister has put on the table was, for us at first, a proposal which was too small and which, in our view, had a high degree of windowdressing. I regret that, and I have always found it somewhat incomprehensible from the point of view of this Minister. I have to say, however, that in the course of this debate, at least, it has emerged that a sensible amendment by the two governmental parties is likely to come to an end with compliments to Mr Duisenberg on the training committee. That will also have the warm support of our group. I note that we can most probably come to terms with information law. I still feel that it should be possible to come up with a good wording for this. I do not want to rush into the rush of having institutions fight each other in connection with information from one who needs the other or not. It is more about ensuring that this is done in the form of a search that the general principle remains that participation itself determines what it needs, and that reasonableness and fairness must be exercised in its implementation. In the Explanatory Memorandum, in the explanatory memorandum, we could interpret this in such a way and perhaps include it with an anchor point in the legal text. I hope that we in the Chamber could find a large majority who would like to guarantee that right of information in a reasonable and fair manner in the law. That would be a profit. After amending Mr Rog and Mr Bruins' amendment on the appointment of directors, my group must say that we really do not go far enough. Is it a step in the right direction? Let us give it the benefit of the doubt. It could also be counterproductive in the sense of what I call windowdressing again. But let me give it the benefit of the doubt. In the sense of second best, or perhaps third best, we will also support that amendment. If these amendments reach a majority, I dare say that the legislative proposal, after a firm amendment by this Chamber, will have the character of a glass that is half full and of a step in the right direction. Under that condition, we will support the bill here in the Chamber. Then we hope that the participation bodies in the educational institutions in the Netherlands will make good and broad use of this. Then we also hope that the turnout rates will increase in the elections of student councils and participation bodies and that, with this structural change, they will gradually be able to support an additional cultural change, which may put us in a position to go a few more steps further. Then we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. I look back at a good debate, with a contrast between the left and the right, and just now, not a majority. This debate will be particularly exciting next Tuesday, assuming that we will then vote on all the interesting amendments, which are not yet sure which one will make it. I thank the Minister for her detailed reply and for the letter we have already received. Gradually, we have already had debates on individual amendments; we will certainly not repeat them. I am pleased that we are going to take a fundamental step by giving training committees the status of participation and making decision-making take place at the level of training. That seems to me to be quite a step forward when it comes to participation for students and teachers. I come to the amendment on facilitation, an amendment that we have not really talked about today. The Minister indicated in her letter that he would give this amendment under conditions of "judgement of Chamber." I will look again at the objections and adjust them in such a way that I hope to receive broad support. Then there is an amendment on the right of assent to the establishment of tuition fees. I will wait for the monitor and withdraw the amendment for the time being. Mr Grashoff has said enough about the right to information, and I fully agree with that. The same goes for the assessor. I am still looking at Mr Bruins when it comes to his ambition to look closely at the faculty part of higher education. That seems to me to be a step in the right direction. I think it would be good if colleagues Van Meenen, Bruins and I were to see how we could achieve something beautiful at this point. There are several amendments on governance. As I said, the amendment made by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins is a step in the right direction, but not far enough. Let us see what proposals are being adopted. I am pleased that the CDJA and PerspectiveF have made it clear that more participation is needed. I will be very careful to see how colleagues Rog and Bruins are going to vote next Tuesday. I'd like to table a motion on the consultation with the Supervisory Board. I had an amendment on this, which I withdraw, also on behalf of Mr Grashoff. I'll make that a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u64	What amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u65	The amendment dealing with the consultation between co-determination and supervisory board without a college of directors, at least twice a year. I withdraw that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u66	What number does the amendment have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u67	I'm not ready for that. I'm sorry, but I don't know all the songs by heart. I now understand that the number of that amendment is 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u68	The Mohandis/Grashoff amendment (Doc. 21) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u69	I shall table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present the Executive Board may be present at regular meetings between the Central Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board;]] [[Whereas this is not conducive to the independence and the degree of freedom the participation council feels to discuss, inter alia, criticism of the board of directors with the supervisory board;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is desirable to make arrangements whereby participation can be consulted at least twice a year with the Supervisory Board without the possibility for the Governing Board to be present;]] [[calls on the Government to agree on this matter with the educational institutions and the umbrella organisations concerned, to have them laid down in the relevant governance codes and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34251-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Van Dijk, I see you standing. Only when it really comes to a question that can affect your voting behaviour. The debate has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u71	I understand you want to hurry, Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, I would also like to say that this is a legal treatment. We need the space to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u72	There's also a schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u73	Now that Mr Mohandis' amendment on the application committee is in jeopardy, I would like to ask him whether he will support our amendment by GroenLinks and the SP on the right of assent on the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u74	If this amendment is put at risk according to Mr Van Dijk's reading, that certainly applies to his and Mr Grashoff's amendments. I do not see that getting any closer, not even with the support of the Labour Party. Let me put that in front of you. I will take my mind off all the amendments that are here. Last time, during the first period, I said that I was very positive about this amendment, and that is still the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u76	Clear. Of course, all the amendments could be put at risk. Apart from that, I'd like to know where your party is. If you say you agree, I expect you to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u77	I hope you'll arrange enough seats for a majority. With me, you are not at the right place when it comes to this type of proposal. That is why other groups are needed. I come to the Minister's commitment in her letter on the involvement of ISO in the monitor when it comes to taking experience with the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget in higher education. Let me get this straight. What does that passage mean? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. I assume that it will be clear how the minimum, preferably the maximum, I gave Leiden as an example. It is about teachers, employees, students and students. We want educators, students and teachers to be involved in decision-making so that they together shape the education and ask themselves in every decision whether it makes education better. This calls for a different administrative attitude, an attitude whereby students and teachers in higher education are not seen as items on a tick-off list, but as full partners to give education direction and quality. After next Tuesday's votes, I can draw the conclusion that we have used this debate to strengthen the power of the directors or the administrative power of students and teachers. I wish my colleagues a great deal of wisdom in voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u78	Me too, I think, because it's going to be a very long voting list. I have one more question. You said in between that you wanted to withdraw an amendment concerning the right of assent of the Central Participation Council. What number does the amendment have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u79	I do not have the number ready, but it concerns the Mohandis/Van Meenen amendment on the right of assent to institutional tuition fees. I shall come back to that in a further debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u80	The Mohandis/Van Meenen amendment (Doc. 19) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr. Chairman. Today's highlight was the list by the Minister of all those consent rights. There are so many incredibly many, but it is never enough for the Socialists and Mr Van Meenen. We too say that participation already offers so much participation and so many guarantees of transparent, open and involved governance. I compliment the Minister. She has held out well against those obsessive demands of the SP, GroenLinks and D66. Let us not forget that participation, and especially the protest against the lack of participation, is ultimately a playground of the SP, GroenLinks and occasionally D66. Mr Grashoff once asked what was against democratisation. Well, that's right: it's a playground of mainly left-wing students who are incredibly concerned about it and if it doesn't go well, occupy the place and then bring in the fight team of the AFA and the International Socialists, with destruction and so on. We do have a problem with that. All of us don't have to. My message to all the mrs across the country in all forms of education was, and continues to be: make use of the possibilities that already exist; look again at that huge list that the minister has listed here and please use it. The core problem is not solved by participation. The key problem is governance and lack of morality in large parts of the driver's cabal. Things like decency, modesty and servitude can't be regulated by law, not even through the mr. We can, however, arrange for accountability and the consequences to be borne. My amendment to item No. 45, which has been dissuaded by the Minister, is trying to achieve this. In its reply in its letter and in its first term, the Minister himself points out that there is already a liability regime for directors of associations and foundations, under Article 2 (9) of the Civil Code. It is true that there is already a regulation, but it is based on the criterion of 'incorrect administration', while my amendment focuses on maladministration. The Minister says that this amendment would unintentionally reduce the ability to hold directors liable rather than increase them. That's just wrong. My amendment creates an additional possibility, in addition to the usual civil law regime that is already in place and which will be there. For that is just not what the Minister said in her response: the regulation on inappropriate administration focuses on civil law, while my amendment focuses on public law. There is no question of two legal arrangements running in each other's wheels. It's just that one thing is on top of the other; it's an extra. It is true that my amendment contains a more direct path. It is a new road where there is a much greater chance that, if a problem arises, it will be much easier to maintain it and it will be much easier for drivers to be called to account than for inappropriate governance. My amendment opens a new legal path which can easily exist alongside the existing one and which is even more direct. The situation calls for it. All examples are mentioned here today: Amarantis, ROC Leiden, Inholland, name them all. The situation calls for a new path, which is set out in my Amendment No 2. 45. The Minister says that it is not desirable to implement this amendment in anticipation of the V and J proposal. The Minister could also see this amendment as a stick behind the door. Why can't we start? Why do we have to wait for V and J? The need is already so great with us. I hope that VVD and CDA will take a closer look at this. The same goes, of course, for the SP, because it is almost impossible to get rid of it in order to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the careful manner in which the reply was made and for the informed way in which she responded in writing to the amendments. It was extremely pleasant to learn about that. During the first period, I spoke favourably on this proposal, because the present proposal contains a large part of a well-considered approach to finding a balance between control and participation. In the 1970s, where some of the amendments tend to be applied, there was indeed a fluctuating wave of democratisation, in which no one was really able to speak any more. The pendulum struck back to the other side in the nineties. With this bill a reasonable balance has now been found, a reasonable balance. We still run the risk of getting the pendulum back to the 1970s if there are quite a few amendments, I have adopted 'a rain of amendments'. So we shouldn't have that. Our final vote on this bill is therefore linked to the amendments that are or are not adopted. When it comes to this bill, there is one very important bone in our throats: that is the obligation to report. There's an amendment to get it out. If the reporting obligation disappears and if there are no more crazy things or left-wing hobbies, with all due respect to our left-wing friends, we are seriously considering supporting this bill. Why do we need to get rid of this reporting obligation? That's because it can have the opposite effect. I have tabled two amendments. One amendment, the one on point No. 42, I maintain. I would suggest to the Minister that we take another look at that. This amendment concerns the consultation obligation. The law provides for this consultation to take place twice a year. My amendment removes that frequency, but not the obligation to consult. Actually, in the spirit of the bill, I say, let that be arranged on location itself. The institutions can then give form and content to it themselves. I therefore maintain this amendment. The other amendment, the one on point No. 43 is about the double cap problem. I would like to thank the Minister for her clear written response in order to keep that under review in the context of the merger test. I am confident that this is a good route and therefore withdraw this amendment. It makes the chairman a little happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Bishop amendment (Doc. 43) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u84	Mr. Chairman. Let me not delay this debate, also in view of the debate that will take place next in this Chamber and for which I already see people waiting. There has been a lot of discussion and there is a lot to be said about that. I hope that it will be particularly true in schools, universities and students and students. We can create the framework for this. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 57 the government is asked for a national opinion on democratisation, following the committee of the University of Amsterdam. Mr Mohandis also asked for opportunities to develop further initiatives for democratisation. I'll take that question right away. The law provides for the minimum. There is much more possible. Many consultations are taking place within the sectors. Think of the Day of Participation, the ISO monitor and ideas that emerge from the bottom up, such as the ideas that Utrecht University students had developed. It seems to me that setting up a committee for this would be an unnecessary institutionalisation. Let it happen especially where the ideas exist. Let us ensure that we encourage experiments, such as the democratic university, the participation monitor and talks. Under this explanatory statement, I advise against this motion. In the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 58 the government is asked to hold a binding referendum. I have to say that I find it strange to say from above about how a referendum should be organised. We have many additional opportunities to shape participation, including with amendments by Mr Van Dijk. Then I think it is right that this responsibility should be placed where it belongs, namely with the institution itself. I think it is the responsibility of participation to agree or not to vote for a referendum and to decide whether a referendum is binding. We shouldn't decide that already. That's why I advise against this motion. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 59 is about placing real estate outside the lumpsum. The lumpsum is an important part of the integrality of budgeting of educational institutions. I do not think it is appropriate to exclude the real estate, especially where we also agree on the main lines of the budget. There will be a letter on the lump sum following the debate during the budget debate. We're going through education-wide what other ways of dealing with the funding are, besides the lump sum funding. I advise against this motion. Mr Mohandis asked how the ISO participation monitor takes into account the practice of the right of assent in the budget. In this monitor, ISO and its partners in the field ask, among other things, how participation has had an impact. I expect the results of the second monitor before the summer. Like the motion in part No. 60 out of Mr Bruins on a whistle-blower arrangement now looks, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. We've already exchanged a few things about that. I appreciate that Mr Bruins' motion leaves room for me to investigate the best way to protect whistleblowers. This can be through the role of an inspection or by a similar whistleblower scheme as for state officials and police. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I have already said that I have just understood that the V and J bill will probably be with the Chamber before the summer of 2016. It is then up to the Chamber to deal with the raft. I will go over the request as formulated in the motion with my colleague from V and J to ensure that the speed remains in it. Mr Duisenberg asked about its specific educational aspects. V and J's bill has implications for joint and several liability. These consequences are particularly relevant to the MBO and ho, in the case of rules on the liability of the Supervisory Board. On a proposal from me, dismissal by the judge is also made possible for administrators and internal supervisors of associations that maintain schools. At the moment, this only applies to foundation boards. Furthermore, we need to consider whether the legislative proposal, as it will come from the Council of State, needs to be amended as a result. Mr Duisenberg asked about the planning. I told you, V and J bill is very likely to come to the Chamber before the summer. In the autumn of 2016, the own OCW legislative proposal will also be ready. This will be available for internet consultation and execution test in the autumn. At the end of 2016 it can go to the Council of State. In April 2017, it can be submitted to the Lower House. So that follows on from V and J's bill. But here too, we are not going to waste any time. I repeat that I leave the vote to the Chamber, but I really do not recommend the amendment on the same subject. That amendment does not, if we are not careful, allow legislation of V and J and OCW to be legally aligned. This motion gives us a powerful signal about what the Chamber wants. On the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The motion calls for agreements to be made to determine how the talks with the participation and the supervisory board take place without the presence of the board of directors. I have already indicated that this presence of the board should never be taken for granted. How this is designed in practice can be better regulated by the field itself than by incorporating it into the law. It is also an option to include it in the governance code. It is good that the amendment is withdrawn and that it can be moved. I would like to see the amendment on item No. Mr Bishop's 56 on the removal of the supervisory board's obligation to consult the co-determination council twice a year continues to be dissuaded, because I am keen to make it clear that this is not once in many years, but that participation is entitled to that discussion with the supervisory board. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from I welcome Mr Grashoff's comments on the right to information. I very much agree with his wording that the starting point must be that participation is always entitled to information, but that it must be fair and reasonable. So I suggest we take a look at that in the next few days. I'm assuming we'll definitely get out of it. Mr Duisenberg had another question about professionalisation and the inclusion of lifelong learning in the governance codes. I have already said a few things about this in the first period, but then I can tell you that most of the codes include that supervisory boards have to evaluate their own functioning annually. For example, the codes of the Association of Colleges and the VSNU state that the Supervisory Board discusses at least once a year both its own functioning and the functioning of individual members and the related conclusions. In any case, attention will be paid to the desired profile, the competences required and the composition of the board. In sectors where this is not yet settled, I will urge the sector to include it. In addition, in its joint presentation on the appointment procedure for directors and supervisors, the vo-sector gives more concrete expression to this. I myself have spoken to the supervisory boards of the public universities about professionalisation. The supervisory boards of the colleges are also working on this. Mr Bruins reported that he is working on an amendment concerning a student assessor at the faculty level at the HBO. I must, of course, wait for that amendment and also technically consider it, but I am in principle sympathetic to the idea. So if it's technically in order, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. It already exists at the university and we usually combine higher education as much as possible. I see no reason to treat the HBO differently from the wo. I have had a discussion with Mr Van Meenen in particular about agreement on the main line of the budget for the MBO. If an amendment is tabled on this subject in line with the way we have discussed it, then the principle is now laid down in the law, but the effect on an AMvB is also valid there that if it is technically sound, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber. I believe that the same does not apply in advance to secondary education and primary education, because the Secretary of State is also in the process of financial simplification. I think that it is desirable to take this together and that it is good to follow the lines of the experience gained with participation in higher education and later in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u85	The Minister says that this does not apply to po and vo, because the Secretary of State is in the process of simplifying funding. That is true, but I do not think it has any relationship with the rights of participation, which extends to the amount of money that comes in there. It is not at all about which variables have been important to determine in the Ministry how much money goes to a school. It is about the internal distribution of the money within the school, regardless of the form of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u86	It is also about how this is presented within the school and whether that is recognizable. I can imagine that there are reasons for dealing with this in its entirety. Apart from that, I have also given other arguments why I do not think it is desirable to do so at once in all education sectors. I understand that the amendment tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis on the inclusion of the obligation on student councils has been amended. I do not have the new number of the amendment, but the opinion remains unchanged: it is not recommended. The amended amendment to Part No. Forty-six of Mr Bruins and Mr Duisenberg replaced the original amendment to item No. 40 and is about the Joint Council as part of the WMS. With the amendment, I can leave the opinion on that amendment to the House. This new amended amendment to item No. 46 is about student participation. It is good that it is now explicitly included in the school guide that the student part of the participation is given the right of assent on this point and that policy can be implemented at school level. The amendment in part No. 16 has been amended; that is the amended amendment to item No. 54 years old. That amended amendment concerns exemption for administrative functions. I can now accept the amendment in its substance. So I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. By the way, there is an extremely technical part in it. In fact, I would not like to discuss this here, but I would ask the applicants to look with my legal experts at the possibility of adding to that. However, that does not change the spirit of the amendment or the explanatory statement. So I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. A few other amendments have been amended. The amendment in part No. 13 by Mr Van Dijk is the amended amendment to item No. 49 years old, but the advice remains: unadvised. The amendment in part No. 12 is the amended amendment to item No. Mr Van Dijk. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Dijk on his excellent report. On this point, too, the opinion remains unadvised. The amendment in part No. 14 is the amended amendment to item No. Fifty-one, including Mr Van Dijk. On this point, too, the opinion remains unadvised. The same applies to the amended amendment to item No. I would like to make a few comments on this point. 11 replaces, and for the amendment to item No. 53 on the right of assent as regards the level of remuneration of directors. I have already had an exchange of views with Mr Van Dijk on this subject, and I would also advise against that amendment. I think I have already mentioned the amendment to item No. 54 on the exemption of students with an administrative function. The amended amendment to Part No. 55 replaces the amendment in part No. 24 of Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Dijk on the right of assent with regard to the appointment of teachers in all levels of education. I would advise against that amendment. I am pleased that, if I understand correctly, there is now good cooperation between the authors of the Rog/Bruins amendment and Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen. I hope that this will enable us to take a good step forward for higher education in order to increase the involvement of students and teachers in the appointment of directors and to achieve a clear division of responsibility. Mr President, I hope that you will be able to look at this whole set of amendments later on in the voting list. I hope that the votes will indeed go well, so that the whole will be able to go to the First Chamber in a responsible manner. Although I am aware that nobody gets their way at all, it is part of democracy, including democracy in education, I think that we have had a good conversation with each other. I have had sufficient opposition from Members and I have benefited from it. I just hope that the Chamber will feel the same way about that when the overall picture is in place as I do. I also hope that the colleagues of the First Chamber will see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u87	If I may interpret the non-verbal expression, I think the last remark is widely shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u88	We will be voting on the legislative proposal and on the motions and amendments tabled next Tuesday. I hope that those votes will indeed be a little more flexible. I thank the Minister and the members. I would also like to thank the large group of people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
