ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber. I would remind the Chamber that, at the request of the Minister, the plenary examination of the bill on 7 June 2016 was suspended after the first term of office. We have now come to the Government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to be here today for continuing to deal with this bill. I would like to thank the spokesmen of the various groups for their input in the first term. A lot of questions have been asked, and I'm happy to answer them all. However, there have also been a number of criticisms of the principle. For this reason, I would like to make a brief comment on the principle underlying this proposal and on another point raised by several spokesmen in the first term: the concerns they have about the financial position of the contributor, particularly in view of the possible problems that might arise from this with regard to the resocialisation of the person concerned. In the answer, I shall then come back to these subjects in more detail per individual spokesperson. First of all, the principle underlying this legislative proposal. The starting point of this bill is that it is reasonable that those who cause costs should contribute to this. That is the old 'polluter pays' adage. That principle is not new. In other areas too, costs caused by specific choices or behavior have been passed on for a very long time. Nor is the debate on the cost transfer in criminal law new. One of the important elements in this is, for example, the research carried out by Professor Tak, which was the result of an earlier discussion on this subject. Professor Tak was asked at that time whether, assuming that that thought could exist, he also wanted to examine how that principle is viewed in Europe, in the countries around us. We therefore know that there are similar arrangements in other European countries. The comparative legal research carried out by Professor Tak following the discussion I mentioned earlier shows that in Denmark, Germany, Italy, Norway, Portugal, France, Sweden and Switzerland there are one or more forms of contributions to the costs of criminal proceedings. In almost all of the countries around us, with the exception of Belgium and Luxembourg, there is a similar arrangement to that proposed by the government in this legislative proposal. It is good to recall here that much support for the principle has been expressed by the advisory bodies, for example, but also in the literature and by a large number of spokesmen in the Lower House. This has also been done by those who were then critical of the proposal in the final weighing-up. There are two ways to look at that. It is often said that the starting point, the principle, is that you make a choice that leads society to make a huge investment: the choice of criminal behavior, the choice to commit a crime, the choice to launder money, the choice to commit a robbery, the choice to commit a home invasion or the choice to commit a street robbery. Those are all choices. You can leave that one out, too. You can't do it either. Then when you make that choice, it doesn't make any sense to say that principle is endorsed by a lot of people, and that you have to accept the consequences of it. You can't just be punished. You also charge society with a huge amount of costs, so it is not unreasonable to allow you to contribute to that. That is only partly, because we all realise that this bill provides for a very limited contribution to these costs. However, it is a fundamental choice to make a contribution to these costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u3	The Minister very much assumes that every criminal offence is committed from a very conscious choice, with the consequences being seen. He assumes the responsibility of the citizen whether or not to commit a criminal offence. The question is whether, in all cases, it is true that this self-determination can be linked. This would mean that people who are declared incompetent or insanityable or who are ultimately said by the judge that he or she is hardly anything to blame should be excluded from his or her own contribution. It appears that there was no conscious choice in which they made that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u4	Of course, those are two different things. I didn't mention examples for nothing, like home invasions. The vast majority of the crimes we have in the Netherlands have been committed by someone who was fully responsible. I didn't mention anything for nothing like street robbery, house burglaries and shoplifting. These are all examples in which people tend to make a premeditated decision to commit that crime. Yes, I say to Mrs Strik, there are also examples of crimes committed in a rush and which also lead to costs. These would also lead to a contribution in our proposal, unless, for example, the judge finally dismisses legal proceedings or acquittal. Then the scheme doesn't apply. But in the other cases where, in your actions or in actions that you have carried out, society has to bear the cost, that conviction takes place in the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u5	One more thing more precise than that. The Minister says that in certain situations this regulation does not apply. Surely it is clear that in the case of a tbs imposition, it is clear that someone was not responsible for their own contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u6	Yeah, absolutely. That's what I just said. It applies in all criminal convictions, whether someone has been declared responsible or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u7	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u8	Then how does the Minister establish the link with his own responsibility? He explained the principle: everyone has their own responsibility, the polluter pays. What about the people who can't be held responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u9	They may not be responsible for the choice. They have not chosen to commit the crime at the discretion of the court because they have not been declared responsible for it. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that, as a result of the actions they have carried out, they have caused a significant amount of costs, irrespective of their accountability. That is, of course, incredibly much more than in the normal situation. Anyway, we're not looking at that. We're really just looking at the fact that someone's being convicted. This leads him to pay a contribution to the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u10	I note, then, that this own responsibility cannot pay off in all situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u11	You don't have to. We have discussed this extensively in the written preparation of this debate. It doesn't have to, because the starting point is that you cause costs and it's reasonable to make a contribution to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u12	If I choose to drive too fast on the highway in the middle of the night, because I want her home fast, and there's no one on the highway, why do I have to pay for victim care? After all, there are no victims at all, so there are no costs incurred by my actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u13	It's very simple. Especially if you don't comply with the traffic rules, the chances of preventing victims are high. That is why we have opted for a system in which people who do not comply with traffic rules can be properly fined. The idea behind that is that you will then contribute to helping victims who fall because of the insecurity in traffic as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u14	There's no one on that highway at all, so I'm pretty sure I'm not causing any casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u15	Not this time maybe, at least I hope so. Maybe next time. Others might be doing it by now. That's how the system works. It's a flat-rate system. It applies to every conviction. There's a lump sum on that. It has not been weighed against the length of the procedure, precisely because it would lead to an impossible implementation regime. These are crimes in which victims are to be regretted, including excessive speeding. There are also victims to be regretted, and it is therefore reasonable that there should be a contribution to helping victims. Mr. Chairman. I would point out that there are no fundamental objections to this principle in the literature, by consultative bodies and by some spokesmen in the Lower House. In your Chamber, too, I have heard a number of spokesmen say that, although they may be critical of the legislative proposal for other reasons, they could not object in principle to this principle. But, of course, it is not just about the principle, but also about the effect. Many spokesmen have asked for attention on this issue in the first term. The most important point I would like to raise today is therefore the financial position of the contributor. I fully understand that this legislative proposal affects a particular target group and that the financial resources of part of that target group are clearly limited. I'd like to take away the concerns of your room. I have therefore decided to make two further amendments to the implementation of the legislative proposal in connection with the contribution of your Chamber in the first term and in the preliminary report. That's how I withdrew the bill contributions for inmates. Your room knows that. A accumulation of contributions for the most vulnerable group, the prisoners, is therefore off the table. Sommejes have also shown that if we had kept that bill in place, because of that sometimes not always, but sometimes very vulnerable group of inmates, a huge amount of money would have to be paid up to €14,000. That bill has been revoked. In addition, we reduced the contribution to the criminal trial. A large number of spokesmen had problems with the amounts such as those in the Lower House. In response to the comments of the spokesmen in the House of Representatives and the comments here, I reduced those amounts in relation to the amounts mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The maximum amounts have changed substantially. The maximum is no longer more than €14,000, but only €1.975. That makes a huge difference to the impact of the bill. I hope that I have been able to take away some of the concerns that remained with the spokesmen, if not all of them. In addition, provisions have been made to prevent contributors from facing serious financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u16	Minister, may I ask you a question? I heard you say that you amended the bill in response to comments made in this Chamber. Would you mind explaining that for me? We have been given the law as it was adopted in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u18	In addition, the debate was held in the first term. You haven't changed the law since then, have you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u19	No, the law doesn't, of course, Mr. Chairman. But I will change the amounts in the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u20	Oh, you will? You said you already have, but you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u21	I did it, in the sense that the AMvB is already done. The amendments have been incorporated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u22	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u23	Madam President, you're so sharp. I had the same thought. 'Cause nothing's changed yet, has it? I thought it was $14,000 if the minister hadn't withdrawn that other bill. We are talking about €1,975, as early as June, but still today? Nothing's changed, has it? The Minister hasn't changed anything, has he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u24	I haven't changed the law as it stands. I have indicated that I will change the implementation. I will come up with an amendment in a moment, which I will make in response to the debate here in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u25	Are you actually saying that there's some sort of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u27	Sorry, Madam President, I'm just getting used to it. Being a chairman himself should not have happened to me! Minister, are you actually saying that in the tariff list you are going to make, there will be lower amounts than what we have assumed in the explanatory memorandum to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u29	Would the House of Commons like that? Those people voted for your bill, based on the well-known rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u30	I assume that the House of Representatives knows that if a bill from the House of Representatives goes to the House of Lords, a number of changes can be made, especially when it comes to implementation. The House of Representatives obviously knows the discussion we have had here in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u31	I think that the House of Representatives assumes that a bill that goes to the other side can only count on a yes or a no, and that this does not change on the way, even during a summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u32	I think this happens all the time. The majority of the House of Representatives has said that it supports the principle that convicted persons contribute to the costs they incur through criminal proceedings. The House of Representatives therefore also has an interest in the adoption of the bill by your Chamber. During the discussion that took place here in the first term, I found that a number of spokesmen have concerns that are mainly focused on that vulnerable group. I then said: then we must ensure that we can remove these objections as much as possible. For that reason, I attach great importance to your acceptance of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u33	Finally, Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u34	The Minister is a practical man, I understand. I am curious to see the rest of his answer in order to respond to the objection that this would still allow low incomes to fall into debt relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u35	We share these principles together, because that would be counterproductive, including with regard to the position of municipalities, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u36	I see Mr Engels dribbling back and forth. Do you want to interrupt? Yeah? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u37	Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u38	The dark cloud, formed by Mr Engels, hangs above the minister! At least that's how I experience it. Maybe the rain will still come. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the amenities. On the one hand, we have the starting point, the principle, that you contribute to the costs caused by being involved in criminal proceedings. On the other hand, how do we ensure that the overall impact of the bill is as limited as possible? We have taken a number of measures to this end. I'll get to another one in a minute. And then, of course, we have the facilities. How do we ensure that the implementation of the bill takes place as carefully as possible? We have already shared a number of things in writing. First of all, we have formulated a careful postponement and payment arrangement. This means that other debts will be taken into account in the recovery and that payment arrangements will be made with and deferred payment can be granted to persons who cannot or cannot pay the contribution at once. No means of recovery shall be used against persons who are unable to pay. With that, I think I'm taking a really important concern away from your room. If it is established that someone has no payment options, it cannot be that we will then involve the person concerned in recovery activities. Then there are two remission powers in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u39	Does the Minister recognise that the possibility of someone getting into a debt settlement is greater because of his own contribution? It is an additional claim that is pressing on him or her. You say that other debts are being taken into account, but it may still result in someone getting into debt restructuring and, as a result, having to live on a very small income for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u40	I have to look at how we had arranged that again... I will return to Mrs Strik in a moment. I just want to make sure I'm saying it right. I was at the forgiveness. Two powers of remission have been introduced. One of these was introduced in the course of the legislative process. There is a solution to the most problematic cases. This can prevent a debt from pressing on someone for a lifetime. But I'll add, we'll only lose it if someone has really done their best to make the contribution. Otherwise, of course, it is a very easy route. It is also good to recall here that not everyone will pay a contribution. No contribution shall be levied for criminal decisions, even if someone opposes that decision. People who have been acquitted do not pay a contribution. Persons who have been dismissed from all legal proceedings without the imposition of a measure shall not pay any contribution. Convicts to whom no penalty or measure is imposed pursuant to Article 9a of the Code of Criminal Law shall be excluded from AMvB. Convicts who have been tried in accordance with juvenile criminal law will also not have to pay any contribution. With all these measures, I believe that any risks to the re-socialisation of vulnerable groups have been addressed. I shall come back to that in a moment in the individual answer. I will also mention the link that seems to be assumed between debt-taking and re-socialization as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u41	What are the two changes the Minister has promised? Are these the postponement and payment arrangements and the reduction of the contributions he is going to consider working out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u42	Yes, and a third amendment: as a result of the contributions of several spokesmen, I have seen reason to declare the so-called 50% rule applicable in the case of bare fines also to fines imposed by the single and multiple chambers. Fines imposed by the single and multiple chambers will be treated in the same way as fines imposed by the canton courts. A number of spokesmen asked in writing why this was not in sync. In the case of the canton court, a 50% rule is laid down for the imposition of a bare fine. I shall continue to do so in the single and multiple chambers, so that the point at which the Chamber pointed to me is corrected. I wrote a letter about that. By the way, I informed the House of Representatives of my intention to reduce the amounts of this bill as indicated above.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u43	You just said you needed to look it up. I would really like you, if you are very keen on getting this bill adopted, to be able to say from your heart and hence from your mind how you want to meet the people with lower incomes. All I've heard is that a delay in payment is possible. That does not remove my concerns or the concerns of some of my colleagues, because this can be very much for people who already have a very low income and then receive a penalty, followed by a fine, even if you may put it out in a few months' time. Then there is still a certain amount of accumulation. How can you prove that you have amended the bill in such a way that we are overwhelmed by it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u44	Those two waivers that I've included are very important. One of them was inserted later, while the other was already in it. So there is the possibility, if someone has really done their best to pay when this is simply not possible, to get rid of things. I think that is exactly what Mr Rombouts is looking for. I'm actually asking him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u45	I remember from the reply that a number of adjustments were announced. Those adjustments get their precipitation in yet to be made or already present AMvB's. Gradually, I get the impression that, since the debate on 7 June, there has been even more in the pipeline in the form of further AMvBs, with further measures, precisely on this point. I am now missing the overview of the exact scope and volume of the law. This is starting to look like magic with law and AMvBs. You can formally involve the House of Representatives, but it's all starting to get a bit loose. Since the reply and the first deadline of June, have you considered further measures, and if so, will they still take the form of AMvBs? Why didn't we get a clear list of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u46	What has been new since June is especially the change that I will apply in one AMvB. There will only be one AMvB: the AMvB that I will present when this bill is adopted. That AMvB provides for the implementation of this bill. Compared to June, there is one new element: the 50% scheme which I will also apply to fines imposed by the single and multiple chambers. This Chamber has pointed out to me that it would be unreasonable for it to do so only with the canton court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u47	I'm a little surprised anyway. We brought all these concerns to your attention in June. You said you needed more time. So you've been thinking about it for a summer. Why didn't you let us know in writing? We could have prepared ourselves for that. That would have made the debate here a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u48	I would like to take Mrs Strik's suggestion to heart. Then I should have. On the contrary, I thought it appropriate to do so in the answer, so that you can discuss this with me here and now. The most important new change is the 50% scheme. All things considered, taking the time for this summer months and in view of the criticism there is, I think it is very reasonable that we should move on to the single and multiple chamber, so that an aspect of criticism has been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u49	I'm not saying I'm not happy with the commitment. But I find it annoying to hear this for the first time, when it seems that this is already a decision on the basis of our first term. I would have liked to have known that in advance, and I would have been able to discuss it in the group and that would have been for the second period of added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u50	I'd like to take that advice to heart. That's not what I should have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u51	I am no longer clear about what we are talking about, what exactly the legislative proposal looks like and what we are talking about today. I think it would be a good idea to put that on paper first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u52	The bill is as it is. As you know, nothing has changed. I can't. As a result of the first-term criticism, I shall be meeting this Chamber. I have looked very carefully at the significance of this criticism and how we can respond to it. I've already indicated where the due diligence of the bill is. I also indicated where I intend to make a concrete change to the AMvB. I can't do that here either. An amendment has already been introduced in the AMvB to apply the 50% system in the case of fines. I have thought about that point that was raised in the first term. I thought it was a good point, so I changed it for that reason. That is what I am saying here; perhaps I should have done so in writing. But I'm doing that here because I think that's important for the treatment. The Chamber will then know that I will respond specifically to its objections on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u53	With all due respect, this seems to me to be some sort of cow business: I am adding something, and I hope that the proposal will be adopted. But it's getting more and more unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u54	That is why we have this debate. We can see together what we think of the proposal. That is why I would like to take the answer further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u55	Just for a minute, because I don't want to stop the treatment. Is it an idea that, in the run-up to the vote next week, the Minister informs the Chamber of what he intends to do in AMvBs since 7 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u56	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u57	At the risk of being less happy than you hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u58	It could be. In the second term in particular, I would very much like to know how the Chamber feels about my defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u59	The Minister was just talking about this 50% scheme as the most important new change, implying that there are other new changes as well. Perhaps, for the sake of clarity, it would be more useful if he spoke of pre- and post-June changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u60	The post-June amendment is the modification of the 50% scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u61	Before I give the floor to Mr Sietsma, I see that a number of Members of Parliament are discussing each other. Do they want a short suspension? I understand Mrs Strik is asking for a short suspension. Can everyone agree to that? Ten minutes, till 3:00? I do not want Members to get together during the debate, because that is not a good thing. Suspension? Mr Sietsma asks his question first and then we suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u62	Did I understand correctly that the Minister said that the House of Representatives has already been informed about the change in the rate, which is 50%? If so, how did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u63	No, the House of Representatives has been informed about the reduction of the rates we applied after the treatment in the House of Representatives, in anticipation of the treatment in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u64	I understand from Members that a five-minute suspension is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I had arrived at the answer to the questions put by the individual Members. This I answer in a number of cubes. The first is the basis of the legislative proposal, the second is the nature of the contribution, the third is the element of the financial position and re-socialization, on which a large number of concerns were expressed in the first period, the fourth is the financial aspects, the fifth is questions about abroad and the sixth is the other questions. That is the roadmap for answering the questions raised in the first term. Mr Rombouts and Mr Engels and Mrs Strik asked in the first place whether the bill is only financially motivated or whether there is a principle behind it. It is inherent in the drafting of a legislative proposal that provides for the transfer of costs to society for criminal law, that the financial aspects are taken into account. As the Chamber knows, the original budgetary objective has been abandoned, but that does not change the fact that there is a price tag on this bill. This means that, of course, this has been taken into account in the budget for the coming years, although I can say that the risk of not accepting this bill by the Chamber is foreseen in the budget from the year 2017. This means that as soon as this bill fails, there will be a reduction of EUR 47 million on the additional amount of EUR 450 million added by the government to my budget. After all, that is the amount that was foreseen to be collected in 2017 with this bill. This automatically means that there will be less money available for the other activities undertaken by my department. Mr Engels and Mrs Wezel asked what legal principles underpin this bill. I refer in particular to the principle of profit and the 'polluter pays' principle, which is the most important principle in this legislative proposal, as I have just indicated. Of course, the principle of profit itself does not apply to this bill for the simple reason that you cannot say that people involved in criminal proceedings benefit from it. This advantage could, in a sense, be allocated to society. If you want to look at it that way, it is certainly reasonable for society to still bear an overwhelming majority of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u66	Enforcement, detection and prosecution are really a core task of the government, a public task that no one else can carry out. The same applies to the maintenance of public order. The cabinet is not in favour of passing on police charges for maintaining public order, for example in the event of events. Can the Minister answer the question of how these two can be reconciled? Why does he not want to pass on these costs, but does he want to pass on the costs of criminal law to individual citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u67	I think this makes a lot of sense. If you pass on the costs of events, Mrs Strik asked this question in the first term; I would like to point out the answer that comes from the organisers of the event, but not from those who require investment in, for example, extra police at football matches. Those are the ones who cause the misery and the mess, the real polluters. That is why the cabinet has finally chosen not to allow this calculation to take place. On the contrary, it is an additional incentive to allow the passing on to citizens to take place. After all, this affects those who are actually themselves subject to criminal convictions, which have given rise to them, rather than the organisers of events.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u68	The police involvement in events also has a preventive function. Organizers take this into account. They have to pay a lot of costs, including when it comes to other issues, such as public health. If you take the argument that it is your own responsibility, you should ask yourself why the individual taxpayer should pay for the costs that the police have to incur because a particular organisation organises some kind of event.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u69	Those costs are not borne by society because the event is organised, but because people who use the organisation of that event want to make a mess there. Not because of the fact that a football match is taking place, there must be police deployment. The reason for the police commitment to a football game is that a small group of wheeldrivers creates a large amount of mess in that organized game, of which the vast majority enjoy the people with a lot of pleasure, very pleasant and without causing any misery. Those wheeldrivers would have to pay for that, not those who organize the football game. That shows exactly why the government thinks this bill is reasonable, because it really makes the group pay for it. Even if that is only for a small amount, the principle is that the person giving rise to criminal proceedings also contributes to part of the costs of such proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u70	I hear the Minister say that he is concerned with the principle of profit. Well, then, in principle, you'd have to pass on all the charges, wouldn't you? Why is that happening in this case? Even if it's a lot for those organizers, that's the case; that's an entrepreneurial weighing down. Why don't you pass it on there and someone else will? Isn't that contrary to the principle of equality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u71	No, I think I have also made clear to Mrs Strik what is true in this particular case. Let us take the cost of public order and security around a football match as an example. If you were to charge the cost of security around a football match to the paid football clubs, those who never cause mess, namely the benevolent, peaceful real football enthusiasts, that family of father, mother and three children, going to the football game, should pay with their ticket for the mess caused by a very small group that they don't want to have anything to do with. I do not think that is reasonable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u72	Then why do I have to pay as a taxpayer for that? I don't need these soccer games to take place for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u73	That is a personal choice by Mrs Wezel. There are also many people who value sport very much and say that sport is fraternizing and playing an important role in our society and that many young people are therefore working on their health. I would therefore say that it is not unreasonable that we stand together for public order and security. The principle mentioned by Mrs Wezel is not preached by the cabinet either. The point is that we consider it reasonable that people who are convicted of criminal offences and are therefore convicted by the judge should pay a contribution to the costs of the criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u74	The question was why one is passed on and not on to the other. This seems to me to be contrary to the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u75	There is no other equality. Equality here is that anyone convicted by the judge for a criminal offence pays a contribution to the costs of the criminal proceedings. That is the same for everyone, except when it appears in the final analysis that there are good reasons why those involved cannot pay. Then again, the forgiveness arrangements apply. Mr Engels asked about the cabinet position on the contribution of detainees to detention. As is well known, that bill has been repealed. I understand that there are countries that charge prisoners a contribution to detention. The Netherlands has finally decided not to do so. Mrs Bikker asked why the own contribution to litigation costs is now being proposed, whereas this has not happened in the last 120 years. I thought that was a very good argument from Mrs Bikker, but the answer is, of course, as logical as the question: of course, a lot has changed in the Netherlands over the last 120 years, not only in society but also in the relationship between government and citizens and, of course, in the way in which costs are passed on. Therefore, the Maat report, the state-wide framework for legislative policy on cost transfer, has been revised in 2014 following various developments. Since then, of course, there has also been a social debate about whether it is reasonable to expect a contribution from people who cause a lot of costs. The answer was also given, of course, by Professor Tak's research, which shows that the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg are actually the only three countries in our part of Europe that have not yet embraced this point of departure. I now come to the second block, the character of the contribution. The debate on this is always about whether the contribution is an administrative charge or a penalty. Mr Engels and Mrs Strik asked for this. In this context, it is good to look at the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In this context, the concept of punishment has an autonomous meaning. As Mrs Strik and Mr Engels have rightly pointed out, an administrative charge can also be a punishment within the meaning of the ECHR. We need to look at the factors which apply to them and which have already been mentioned several times by the Court. This concerns first of all the characterisation under national law, the procedure followed when the measure was imposed and implemented, the nature and purpose of the measure and the level and gravity of the measure. I refer very specifically to the Angel, Jamil and Welch judgments of the European Court of Justice. I come to the conclusion that the contribution is not a punishment within the meaning of the ECHR. As regards the first element, the character of national law, the contribution has been regarded as an administrative charge under national law. As regards the imposition and enforcement procedure, the contribution shall be imposed and collected in an administrative procedure. The course of action which can then be followed is governed by administrative law. The means of recovery are limited to redress with and without coercion. Of course, hostage is not possible. As regards the nature and purpose of the contribution, the purpose of the contribution is to pass on the costs of criminal proceedings. The last element is the question of whether the height gives reason to say that there is a penalty. As is well known, the level of the contribution is limited, especially after the reduction of the amounts. The amount is therefore not such that the contribution exceeds the cost. It can therefore be said that the costs are passed on. This can be found in the Ruotsalain ruling, which I do not think is very good, but that is the ruling of the European Court to which I can refer. The level is also limited by the moderation of the bare fines. The contribution is also small in relation to the contributions which may be imposed abroad and which have not been judged to be contrary to the ECHR. Because there is no penalty, there is no conflict with the principle ne bis in idem. In the meantime, I can answer Mrs Strik's question. It asked whether the contribution would be of a punitive nature by allowing the single and multiple Chambers to make a contribution higher than the fine. Mrs. Strik is right about that. That is why I intend to amend the decision on that point. I would like to thank Mrs Strik for this suggestion, which I am happy to accept. Mrs Strik asked whether the fact that this is a lump sum could not lead to a punitive nature. I believe that we should also look at the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the Ruotsalain case. It can be inferred from this that the use of fixed flat rates does not mean that there is a penalty. Nor can it be said that the contribution is of a punitive nature, as long as the advances do not exceed the actual costs in such a way that a single transfer cannot be considered. Mrs Strik asked whether the legal remedy proposed by us in the administrative procedure is effective. I think so. The General Administrative Law Act applies. This means that there can also be objections. All aspects of the implementation may also be objected to and may eventually be brought before the Court of Justice of the Council of State. Ms Strik explicitly asked whether the ECHR could still play a role. Of course, the administrative judge can carry out a review of the ECHR. Mrs Bikker and Mr Engels said: if you turn around and not look from the government at the persecuted but look at how this is experienced by those who are confronted with it, could they then see it as a punitive means? It could be. I do not rule that out, but the simple fact that someone experiences an administrative charge as a punishment does not mean that that charge will also become a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u76	I would like to come back to the issue of the possibility of presenting this to the administrative judge. In Britain, the law has been repealed after great criticism. The choice was made to allow judges to determine on a case-by-case basis what the cost of compensation should be. Why doesn't the Minister choose, as in England, to let the court determine the costs of the criminal proceedings? With this bill, the Minister has excluded the imposition of his own contribution from the field of vision of the judges who are to impose the penalty. In Britain, more than 100 judges have resigned because they could not live with this law. Isn't it much worse if the exercise of a public function is excluded from view with this bill, because the judges are probably unable to get it out of their mouths? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u77	I remember Mrs Wezel asking that question in the first term. I've been preparing for that, too. I wanted to deal with it under the heading 'foreign', because the question is actually about the English situation, but I would like to draw it up. Maybe it's a good thing to make it clear that England had three ways to pass on costs to the convict. The first is the cost order, the calculation of the actual costs of the criminal proceedings. They can sometimes go up to the many tons there. The second is the Victim Surcharge. That's a separate contribution for the victim. That comes on top of the cost order in the form of a kind of surcharge. In addition, there is the Criminal Courts Charge. That's the third payment obligation for the convict. Mrs Wezel refers to that last point. A lot of objections have been raised, as I understood also because judges said that this was on top of the cost order of actual costs and the Victim Surcharge. So they objected to that Criminal Courts Charge. The law in which this was regulated has been repealed, as Mrs Wezel stated in the first term. That means that in England there are still the cost order and the Victim Surcharge. Both elements are still valid law in England, as far as I have become.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u78	My question was why the Minister did not choose to let the criminal court decide on this, taking into account the personal circumstances, for example, of someone who is already in debt restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u79	I will come back to that in a moment, because I will deal with this question under the heading 'financial position'. Mrs. Wezel, do you mind if I treat it then? Or do you want an answer now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u80	Well, I just want to get an answer to the question why you don't choose to just settle this in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u81	That is what we choose because we believe that the special position of the person in question should also be taken into account in the implementation of the scheme. The criminal court can only do this at the time of determining the amount, but not after that. On the contrary, I think it is very important that we allow flexibility, so that we can take the position of the person concerned into account after that. This must therefore be done not on the basis of a judicial judgment, but on the basis of a fixed administrative charge, thus carefully weighing the position of the person concerned in administrative law. Otherwise, it can only be done during the criminal proceedings on the day of the hearing itself. I think that this is a choice that does much more justice to the sometimes vulnerable position of convicted persons than the system proposed by Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u82	I'd like to come back to the lump sum. The minister says that the ECHR allows that without becoming a criminal charge, because there is still a pass-through. Mrs Wezel mentioned a traffic fine or a conviction for violating the Road Traffic Act without a victim or any criminal offence without a victim. You should actually arrange that, in the absence of a victim, no costs are passed on that are related to victim care. Then you would have to set several lump sums in order to do some justice to the fact that there is indeed a pass-through. Because now we are talking about lump sums, regardless of how much costs have actually been incurred. Of course, it matters very much whether or not there is victim care, but the legislative proposal does not make a distinction in this respect. This raises the question of whether the lump sums are sufficiently related to the actual costs incurred. Is there really a question of passing on or is there simply a certain amount imposed without looking at the individual circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u83	I'm gonna take a look at what we spend on criminal justice. I don't know exactly, because you can of course include all the costs of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police. Then we'll be looking at billions, but I don't think that's the point. What I remember is that society in the Netherlands contributes about 20 to 21 million to victims. This bill provides for an additional 5 million. So that's 5 million on top of the 21 million that's already being collected. The aim of the amendment to this bill is, in principle, to raise some 44 million. Those 5 million are a small part of it. Mrs Strik says, at least I understand that only that small part, that part of the total amount, should be applied to the crimes in which a victim is actually involved. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u84	Yes, you're talking about the calculation. The bill contains several cost items that form part of the calculation, such as detection, prosecution, trial and victim care. Then you could indeed see in proportion which part is used to pass on those costs. If you do that differently, the question may arise as to whether there really is a transfer. Or do you say: we're picking up those amounts anyway, so we could use a little more for tracking or prosecution, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u85	I wonder what Mrs Strik's concern is. If she is concerned about whether the ECHR would accept that, my answer is: look at England. The Victim Surcharge doesn't see victim crimes either, but all crimes. This also applies in other countries. That is where the assumption is based, therefore, that the contribution is reasonable, because there may not be a victim in this particular crime, but that is, of course, the case in general. I think it's exactly the same here. I think it is quite reasonable that someone who commits such a traffic offence should be subject to a heavy fine, because the risk of a victim being created is very high. That is the case, that is the idea behind road safety, and that is a contribution to victim care, even though he may not have killed anyone. But that might as well have been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u86	I therefore note that the transfer actually goes to the total costs involved in the offence and that they are not specified on the actual costs. So there is not a certain amount going to the Victim's Aid Fund. The money goes to a big pile and from there all these different items are filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u87	That doesn't apply to the victim. That amount, the 5 million, is actually spent on victim policy. That's a deal. I repeat what I said in the House of Representatives. We have decided to redesign the amounts, and we thought it reasonable that the contribution to victim care should simply be maintained. We believe that it is very important that those convicted contribute to this, because they cause a great deal of suffering to each other. Now I come to the block of 'financial position and socialization'. Mr Rombouts and Mrs Bikker asked and Mr Engels, Mrs Wezel, Mrs Strik and Mrs Beuving expressed their concerns. How does the Minister view the impact of this bill on the resocialisation of people who may already be in a difficult position? That is a fundamental question. First of all, we must look at what we know about the relationship between debt and socialization. The research we have carried out on this is based on an indirect relationship. It's not like you're gonna commit criminal acts because of big debts. It is not that people only commit crimes because they are in debt or that, in order to pay those debts, they try to make money at the expense of another. That is not generally the case. What I can say is that large debts lead to social problems, such as being unable to pay for a home. That could be a danger to resocialization. I think we have recognised this very carefully in this legislative proposal. For this reason, we have chosen to reduce those amounts, which greatly reduces the influence they can have on someone's financial position. In addition, we are ensuring that we can resolve this precisely for that vulnerable group by means of a payment arrangement, a postponement or a waiver. Maybe it is also good to note that, in terms of the total revenue from this bill, we foresee that only about 50% or 60% of the cases will be paid. The whole of the legislation is based on it, and that is also the care that, in my opinion, you can expect from the government that a very large part of the people can't afford it and then it won't. That is what we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u88	Can someone like him be imposed on this, with his own contribution, in debt restructuring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u89	If this were the only fault, I think the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u90	In addition to this debt, he also did not pay rent for a while, just like his energy note and a number of other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u91	Then someone can be in debt recovery anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u92	Well, it's not. If you have a fine open, it's said: that's your own fault, you can't be in debt restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u93	Yeah, but in this case, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u94	With this debt one can be in debt restructuring?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u95	I feel supported by the higher regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u96	It's nice that this is recorded for all those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u97	It's possible. There's no obstruction there. Then I come to the question put by Mr Rombouts, Mrs Bikker and Mrs Beuving in the first term, namely whether there are sufficient arrangements for anyone to be involved in this process and whether they want to object or appeal, and whether they are also understandable. I think it is very important that tailor-made work can be done in the implementation of this scheme. In my opinion, there is support for the various spokesmen that this should be the case. In order to avoid complexity, uniformity and feasibility have been considered within the possibilities. A standard payment scheme is offered. The decision on individual payment arrangements and deferment of payment shall be taken at the request of the contributor, using a standard calculation method. Clear criteria for the waiver are laid down in the law. This makes it possible to deliver tailor-made products in a clear and simple way. The CAK has therefore been deliberately chosen, which has years of experience with personalised collection in target groups with a difficult financial position. In the opinion of the CAK, the scheme is also feasible. That has been viewed together with him, including by means of a so-called execution test. The personalised collection strategy prevents the wrong use of funds against persons who simply cannot pay the contribution. That is why this bill is based not on 100% payment of the contribution, but on payment in about half of the cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u98	Perhaps the Minister will come up with the re-socialization as such and the effects of this bill. I have another question about the cost. The Minister said a profit of, I believe, 44 million is to be expected. Have the costs associated with the collection procedures, possible additional special assistance from municipalities, debt relief routes and the like already been deducted from this? You look upstairs and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u99	Yeah, speaking of which, I'm thinking, about 4.5 million is taken into account. Mrs Wezel asked the same question as she just asked. Have we looked at the impact of this bill on the guilty's debt position? We have a good idea of the financial position of detainees by the monitor aftercare ex-convicts of the WODC, but it will be understood that only a small part of the target group of this bill consists of detainees. Our assessment is that it is less than a third, so two thirds of the people involved in this bill are not detained. On the basis of this investigation, I can see that those convicted who are not detained have a very diverse background and that there is no homogeneous group. Since there is no reason for the judicial authorities to ask all convicted persons about their financial position, no statistical information is available about this group. I think it is very important to look at what measures we have taken to avoid financial problems. Mrs Wezel already asked about the debt restructuring. The law provides for someone to have access to debt restructuring, so that does not depend on my commitment in this Chamber, but that is just in the law. Article II of the bill amends the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on We will also monitor the implementation of this bill. Mrs Bikker asked if the monitor would also be sent to the First Chamber. I hereby acknowledge that I will do so. Mrs Wezel also asked whether the CAK could and will take into account other debts. The answer to that is yes. The CAK will request data from the Tax Administration, the UWV and the SVB. This means that debts that already exist can be included in the assessment and treatment. In addition, the contributor himself is required to provide any data. He's not gonna be able to say he's guilty of something, but he's gonna have to provide evidence to prove it. The debts known to the CAK will be taken into account when deciding on the individual payment arrangements, deferment of payment, the use of means of recovery and the remission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u100	Can the Minister explain how this is going to be done? Can I make an appointment, where I come with a bag with all my bills, which are still in the envelope, because I haven't taken them out yet? Are we gonna put that on a list with each other? Or should you give the municipal debt relief a role in that? The debts are not known to the Tax Office nor to the CWI. Not everyone's on welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u101	First of all, let me advise Mrs Wezel not to commit criminal offences, then at least she does not have that problem herself. She says: if I go then, but I think it is wise to advise her simply not to be eligible for this legislation. If the situation is that someone is eligible, then I have to say that advice is available from municipalities for this procedure and that the Legal Loket can be available to assist and provide the right information. To the extent that that information has to come from the data subject himself, it will be regulated as easily as possible, as the CAK is used to, in order to carry out the human check. However, people must provide their own information in a clear way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u102	Problem is, those people would be in debt to the CJIB. They have been fined, with perhaps absolved. You have the cost to the victim that you may still have to pay. This €2,000 will be added. Besides, you've been in jail, so you have a rent disadvantage, just like for energy. I'm just gonna mention something in this fictional case. With regard to the problems I see in practice, it would be nice if there is one institution that can help people, such as the municipality, which has an overview of the debts of those people. By placing it at the CAK it is made more difficult again, because it lies on the one hand with the CJIB and on the other hand with the CAK. Not everyone is able to have an overview of their finances. That is why municipalities are a huge support for these people. In my opinion, this only makes it harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u103	I think we should separate two things. Mrs Wezel says that it is very important that people who have a hard time in the Netherlands, who have a lot of debt, have a place where they can get good advice. I just said there are several instances where that happens. This is sometimes done by municipalities in the context of debt relief; this is done by the Legal Loket, if it is legally relevant, and there are also other bodies that can provide assistance, such as Social Councils. Mrs Wezel probably knows that much better than I do. The essential question then is: is the CAK an authority that is sufficiently equipped to implement this scheme in a careful manner, taking into account the difficult position of people? I think so. If the municipality wants to help regulate the provision of information to the CAK, I only see that as a positive point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u104	It is not for nothing that aid organisations have indicated that it is important for the public authorities to contribute to unity. There must be one place where everything for the aid comes together and I think that the government should contribute to that. It should not be a job: you have to go to this point of contact and go to that point. In practice, I notice the following. People who come in for debt relief get to hear: no, you shouldn't be with me for this, but with the Legal Loket. Then they go to the Legal Loket and are referred to another. I'm getting those people in tears in their eyes right in front of me. What does the Minister contribute to bringing it all together? This only contributes to making it harder for these people. In addition, it also costs the government much more money. That is at all my criticism of this bill: it means that the government will spend a lot more money on aid costs because people lose much more of the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u105	I'll be the first to respond to the final point. In our calculations, we assume that, with the measures that I have now taken, more than 50% of those convicted will receive a contribution that will be below €375. Let us be very explicit: more than half of the convicted end up with a bill of less than €375. That is our expectation, especially in view of the commitment I made to Mrs Strik and Mrs Wezel and which I could have confirmed in a letter afterwards. Will this €375, which applies to more than half of the cases, also cause a lower amount of the problem that Mrs Wezel has outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u106	It's en-and-and-and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u107	Then I must point out to Mrs Wezel that I am here as Minister of Security and Justice, responsible for the bill proposing a contribution to the costs of sentencing in criminal proceedings. I am not standing here as a minister responsible for debt relief in the broad sense of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u108	The minister is here as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u109	Yes, but I am not responsible for the way in which the municipalities, which we have given each other this important task, are helping vulnerable people in society. I'm not responsible for that, and I can't take responsibility for that. I am responsible for the careful implementation and monitoring of this law, if this bill is passed by the Chamber. Those who are unable to pay and who are rightly and understandably concerned by the spokesmen should not be further away from home with this bill than they were. That is, I think, very carefully anticipated. The Chamber may appeal to me on that. It is my job to convince the Chamber today and to remove its concerns by pointing out the measures we have taken and the care with which we have looked at this bill. Members of Engels, Strik and Wezel have asked in the first term what the position of the family is. I can imagine that concern. The CAK shall carry out an income and capital check in the collection, for example, to determine whether a payment arrangement should be made or whether payment should be deferred. It calculates the amount to be released on a monthly basis so that someone has sufficient means of subsistence. It's done by the Recofa method. I think the MPs know that method well. The calculation method takes into account the family composition, including the cost of care and the possible costs of the home. It is an acknowledged, careful method to ensure that this is properly handled for the people. Mrs Wezel asked if there could be a hostage. I already told you this can't be done. The bill excludes hostage-taking in respect of this amount. Mr Schouwenaar, Mr Bikker, Mr Engels and Mr Wezel asked whether I would also send the monitor I promised to the Upper Chamber. The answer to that is yes. I also agree that I will make a mid-term review of the scheme after one year. That request has been made by the spokesmen who have just been mentioned, and I am happy to accept it. Mrs Wezel asked how the supervision of the CAK was regulated. It will have seen the monitoring system in the scheme. The CAK sends me a report every quarter. I will, of course, consult with the CAK. I am confident that the CAK will do this carefully, as it is doing its work carefully. Members of Engels en Beuving asked why the collection rules are not included in the law but in the AMvB. Article 4.4 of the AMvB shall apply to the contribution. On the basis of the AMvB, the payment arrangement and the postponement of payment have been made possible. I have included in the bill the powers of waiver and the possibilities for redress. All the collection rules are thus laid down in the law. The rules still offer scope for policy action. I think I should take care of it and frame it in the AMvB. The amounts are included in the AMvB so that they can be adjusted if necessary. I come to block 4: the financial aspects. Mr Rombouts and Mr Schouwenaar asked whether the net result of the proposal could be achieved and whether I could provide a basis for the estimates. Following the withdrawal of the contribution for residence and the reduction of the fee for the contribution for criminal and victim care, the initial expectation was that the bill would raise net 47 million. Now that I have accepted the proposal to limit the fines imposed by the single and multiple chambers to 50% of the fine, the expected net revenue should be adjusted to 44 million. The intended yield is based on the expected recovery rates, which are between 43% and 51%, as I have just said. We therefore assume that, given the generous arrangements for postponement and remission and the payment system, about half of the people involved at the end of the day will not be able to pay this amount. These percentages are surrounded by uncertainty because they are a new scheme. We will eventually be able to determine the recovery rates by using the monitor. So you always have to work with a bandwidth. The range is between 39 million and 49 million. That is why I consider a budgeted net income of 44 million real. Mrs Wezel asked if an impact analysis had been carried out. That's the case. That analysis was done by the independent research agency Significant, which calculated the impact. That analysis showed no reason not to submit the bill. Mr Rombouts asked about the implementation costs. They're budgeted at 4.5 million. After deduction of the implementation costs, the net revenue of this bill is therefore about 44 million, with the adjustment I made and which I would have been better able to report in a letter afterwards. Mrs Bikker asked about the costs of appeal and objection. The CAK assumes that there is only a very limited number of objections, i.e. less than 1%. Of these, 5.5% are expected to lead to an appeal to the Administrative Court. It is therefore a very limited number of cases. I consider the assumptions to be very realistic. This means that we do not have to bear in mind the costs of this, at least in the normal situation. Mr Bikker, Mr Strik and Mr Wezel expressed concerns about the role of the municipalities and the legal aid financed. The concern with regard to municipal assistance was mainly justified by the legislative proposal for the own contribution of detainees. This bill, of course, has taken all kinds of precautions and provisions to ensure that this contribution does not cause people any financial difficulties. I do not therefore foresee that the call for assistance will increase. It has been agreed with the VNG that in the Monitor Afterzorg Ex-convicts of the WODC we will investigate whether information on this can be generated. So we're gonna see if we can get that information up and running. I therefore have no reason, even if I look at the figures of the number of appeals and objections I have just raised, to suspect that there will be an increase in the use of funded legal aid. I'm getting to block number five on overseas. I have now answered Mrs Wezel's question on the English system. If I understand correctly, Mrs Wezel asked in the first term: in England they abolished the whole system, so why are we going to introduce it? So that's really not the issue. The English system is still based on a cost order, the calculation of the actual costs, which are many times higher than in the Netherlands. In some cases, it is really hundreds of thousands of pounds. In addition, England still knows the Victim Surcharge. The Criminal Courts Charge has been abolished with the comments already quoted by Mrs Wezel. Mrs Wezel was concerned whether the contribution to minor offences could be a problem. I think it is right that we should note that no contribution is required in the case of a criminal decision, which in principle resolves minor offences. This means that there will be no problem there. Block six covers the remaining questions. Mrs Bikker asked why the contribution to the detention of prisoners has been withdrawn. At the advisory bodies in the literature, but also in the Lower House there was support for that principle, but there was also a lot of criticism of the bill. The amount of the contribution to that bill could reach almost 11,000 euros. It was found that precisely that height and relationship to a often vulnerable group could be a major problem for the rehabilitation of prisoners. That is why the government has decided to withdraw that bill. Finally, Mr Rombouts asked why this bill was not involved in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The answer to this is that this bill comes from the coalition agreement. This means that the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure will not enter into force for another five years. That would be too late for the bill we have put forward here. That's why it's ahead of you now. I will come to Mrs Strik's question. She asked: is a contribution levied if Article 9a of the Penal Code is applied to the sentence without penalty? The answer to that is no, that will not be the case. I think I have answered all the questions from the first term of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u110	We have arrived at the second term of office. I understand that Mrs Strik wishes to speak on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u111	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. The Minister has made a number of new commitments. He promised Mr Engels that this would be done on paper and sent to the Chamber. I therefore ask the President to postpone the second term of the Chamber until we have been able to read that letter and take a position on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u112	Thank you. That's a clear question. Let me see if there are people in the Chamber who have objections to a second term, which will take place in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u113	In reply to Mr Engels, the Minister promised a letter setting out two points. That is what we are getting this week, so it could be part of the group's next week's discussions. It's about a reduction. I find it difficult to imagine that there are any objections, but it is not up to me to judge that. There are a lot of other aspects to this bill. Should that reduction, that part, give rise to discussion, there is always the possibility of a third deadline. It seems to me that we should continue the discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u114	Whether it is a commitment that does not matter very much, I can only judge it when I see it on paper. This raised a lot of questions. Questions were asked to the Minister, but he could not give any further clarity. That is why I think it would be wise to see them first on paper, so that we are aware of the consequences. After that, they can be part of the second term. Then we can ask the Minister further questions. I need that and I would like to know if others need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u115	I'll look around the room. What about it? The groups of the CDA, D66, SP and PvdA agree to postpone the second deadline. Mr Schouwenaar has a different view on this, but there is an overwhelming majority in favour of postponing the second term on the part of the Chamber and, therefore, at the moment, of the second term on the part of the Minister. I checked the diary. On October 25th, it might be possible. Then we'll deal with the Civil Service Act, but then it'll be a fall break in the south. The alternative is 15 November. It's either October 25th, or November 15th. I'm also looking the Minister in the eye. It's gonna be November 15th. I shall suspend the debate for the second time until 15 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-eerstekamer-9.u116	I shall suspend the meeting until the Minister of Economic Affairs arrives. He'll be here as soon as he can. If he's lucky, he'll be here at 4:15. So we will continue the sitting at 4.15 p.m., not at 4.45 p.m., but at 4.15 p.m.
