ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber. I would also like to welcome the advisers of the Minister, the government commissioners Hammerstein and Scheltema, to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. The members of the CDA Group have noted with interest the present legislative proposals on the simplification and digitisation of procedural law. I hope I didn't scare you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u3	No, it's not because of you. A glass of water fell over, and I need to save something. I just need to save my iPad. That seems rather important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u4	Maybe we can apply the WTS to this, like in Southeast Brabant, but that was a slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u5	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I can sit in front of the meeting. That's fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u6	These proposals aim to improve the quality of justice. This is a far-reaching exercise involving many interested organisations, which is essential for the up-to-date functioning of our rule of law. As we know, the motivations behind this project are to bring justice in the Netherlands into line with the digitisation of our society. In addition, the KEI programme aims to speed up and simplify procedures, both civil and administrative. The Minister summarized it in his note on the report. I quote: The KEI programme of justice works with clear objectives. Increasing satisfaction with the quality of justice among judges and chain parties. Expanding the time that judges have for complex cases. Reduction of the lead times per case and the maintenance and improvement of the quality of the case law in the Netherlands that is internationally leading. The case law focuses on digital litigation, digitally supporting processes and the joint creation of an organisation and an organisational culture that supports the new way of working. Madam President. I hesitate to address you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u7	Be my guest. I don't have a problem. I can do two things at once. Women can multitask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u8	Yeah, my mom used to say, "I can read and knit at the same time." Madam President. There's no one to object to this. I'm not asking you what that was against, but we understand it here. The legislative process has been vigorously pursued by the Minister over the past period. In itself, the legislative amendments to the legislation in question are already far-reaching, but the question is, of course, whether they are sufficiently effective. In parallel, there is a major ICT pathway, which is crucial for the smooth implementation of the KEI programme. A lot has been said and written about these proposals by various interest groups in recent weeks and months. Many critical notes have also been cracked by science. On 7 June, we held an informal meeting in this building where stakeholders could exchange views. There are also concerns and reservations there. I'd almost say "again." The members of the CDA Group I want to say clearly here support the KEI programme and the proposals before us. However, they also see that a project like this has a big impact on everyone who is involved. Our group sees the higher goal. In a world that is digitizing in race, justice, especially the Dutch, can no longer be left behind. There is much to be said about the risks of this journey, but let us not forget that in a world characterised by rapid information exchange, our own high-level case law is perceived as an archaic, untimely and inaccessible stronghold. The KEI programme should lead to more effective communication and more efficient processes, which in turn should lead to more time and attention being paid to the lawsuits that ultimately are all about. The transition from justice to a digital world will not go unpunished. I'm sure there'll be children's diseases. However, this calls for an organisation that wants to co-operate constructively with the users. However, the sounds that I personally received from, for example, the legal profession over the past year are also that people are longing for a digital way of working and that they dislike the cumbersomeness, unfriendliness and time-consumingness of the current paper way of working. The CDA Group believes that this mega-project has been careful and speedy. There are and will always remain risks in the implementation of a project like this. The extent and nature of the concerns expressed do not justify any further delay in the entry into force of the proposals before us. Rule is forethought; rule is not forethought. Several organisations have indicated the need to actually adopt the proposals, because only then can the follow-up process be used. Over the past period, we have been informed several times about the way the project is conducted, from pilot phases and voluntary testing options to user panels that test the system for user-friendliness and accessibility. The approach to start small with a comprehensive pilot afterwards and only after a satisfactory evaluation by both internal and external stakeholders will a national roll-out. That approach gives us confidence. In this way, digital litigation only becomes a reality when the digital environment is robust and workable. In our opinion, the Minister has also given extensive answers to the latest legal questions, as recently asked by the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs. So far we are still positive about the proposals and the path that has been taken so far. However, there are still a few points that we think the Minister is taking a slightly light-hearted approach to. For example, the Dutch government has a name for ICT projects in terms of failures and budget overruns. My first question to the Minister is divided into two parts. What makes the minister so clumsy that things are going to be okay here? Can the Minister also assure us that we will not be faced with a budget overrun in this project? In addition, the Minister indicates that all stakeholders will be actively involved in the process in different ways. However, the Dutch Bar Association uses strong language in its letter of 14 June 2016 following our informal meeting on 7 June 2016. There is even talk of a loss of confidence in the Court of Justice. And the statements of the chairman of that council are seen as very disturbing. In the note on the report, the Minister, in my view, is getting over this easily by referring to the good consultation that has taken place. That doesn't convince us yet. How does the Minister explain that, in this final phase of the legislative process, an important stakeholder, the Dutch Lawyers' Order, still feels that this is the way to slow down? For what reason did the Minister consider that this strong signal does not deserve a specific follow-up? And why doesn't he read a risk for successful implementation? I am also asking the last question in the light of the 'go/no go' decision to be taken. Let me quote the Minister's words again: "It is very important that the system works properly for both the internal user and the external user. The purpose of the case law and the chain partners is this. This means that it is only the mandatory digital litigation that is decided upon when all the tests have been passed properly and all the criteria have been met. The case law will, among other things, consult the legal profession." I ask the Minister at what point in time there is such a result of the consultation that the case law can give him a positive opinion. In other words, until what time are the concerns of supply chain partners being taken into account and at what point is the case-law getting over this? Silex, as you all know, has insisted on extending the implementation period by three months, from six months to nine months. The CDA Group sees no insurmountable objections in this regard and is curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u9	I apologize for the weirdness that just happened, but it's no different. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. On his departure as President of the Supreme Court, Geert Corstens quoted the verdict of our former colleague Willem Witteveen: "The rule of law is not a quiet property, not a house in which we can sleep carefree." I cannot open my group's contribution to today's debate any better than with this quote. In his speech, Mr Corstens added something: 'Without maintenance, the house of the rule of law is failing'. Today we are doing great maintenance and we should do it carefully. By the way, I am not saying anything to the detriment of the formidable work of the Government Commissioner. In the explanatory memorandum to one of the four legislative proposals, the Minister embraces this principle of law as a basis. By the way, I would be surprised if this were different. Within the rule of law, he writes, justice is essential for the resolution of legal disputes. I quote the Minister's words: 'Justice is a pillar of the Dutch rule of law and is therefore of great importance for the proper functioning of Dutch society'. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he still supports this view and, if so, whether he explicitly confirms it. I hope this is self-evident, but I say this at the beginning of this debate. The partial revision of the Code of Civil Procedure consists of four parts. The Minister asks us to look at these four parts together. In preparation, the Minister answered a number of (detail) questions in the note following the report and a number of issues were clarified. However, my group's concerns have not yet disappeared. The four legislative proposals make it possible to carry out the necessary maintenance, to modernise civil procedural law and to conduct proceedings digitally. Modernisation has been carefully and extensively dealt with in the legislative process under the guidance of both government commissioners who are here today. I'm honored to see them here at the table. The harvest in respect of the renewal of the Code of Civil Procedure is modest, but it is characteristic that civil procedural law and administrative law move in the same direction: rather, in the proceedings, an oral hearing at the hearing, less quality of the court and more oral sitting. Maybe it's not a coincidence that both government commissioners are here. Of course, it is difficult for former practitioners to get used to the new concepts: "application" now makes way for "process initiation" and "subpoena" makes way for "vocational notice." This word lacks warmth and mysticism for me and reminds me of the change of "municipality hall" or "city hall" in "city office." Anyway, the practice will get used to that. If you go to court in civil proceedings, you will not find that trial initiation as a defendant on the doormat anymore. The other party calls, e-mails or apps. After all, the start of civil proceedings is also changing. That is an aspect that the bailiffs and experienced litigators find somewhat disturbing, but that will also get used to. If these legislative proposals have the force of law, your lawyer will be in civil proceedings with compulsory procedural representation or if there is a higher threshold amount under Article 8:30c I refer to proposal No. 34059/1993 your claim in the form of an initiation of proceedings by electronic means to the court. And in an administrative dispute under Article 8:36a, an appeal will be made by electronic means. This seems to be only a small adjustment in the modern era, Mr Rombouts has already spoken about this, but among the various writings about it you will find an interesting article by the professors Prince and Earth in the Law-learned Warehouse Themis. It says that it is also a real paradigm change that we may not even have a complete picture of yet. It starts small, but the consequences will be great. I'll tell you more about it later. I'm going back to the rule of law. My group does not have too much concern about these proposals in terms of legality testing. I will make a few comments later on on the oral procedure and the principle of fair trial. However, we do have serious concerns about the implementation test. I agree with Mr Rombouts on this point. If we maintain the metaphor of "the rule of law as a house," it can be noted that the maintenance of a sturdy house is different from the maintenance of a building in which tears and cracks have gradually arisen, on which inspection reports already exist and on which calls and pamphlets of troubled residents reach us. The water must really be on the lips of judges before they start to act. That is not in their nature, nor is it the nature of the profession. However, the judges have recently done so in a petition to the House of Representatives in which there is a cry of hearts. In addition, petitions or manifestos have been filed before. Examples have also been cited in the aforementioned petition: production pressure and unacceptable short time units that are still possible for dealing with cases. We are therefore alarmed and I have learned that in civil relations the duty to carry out investigations is therefore incumbent on us. The D66 Group has therefore carried out this study in preparation for this debate. I outline this background in the discussion of these proposals, because safeguards for the feasibility of legislation are important in this context if the present legislative proposals are to be adopted. Last week I was a guest in the evaluation of the Work and Security Act (WWZ) which took place after a year by the Association for Labour Law and the Association for Labour Law Lawyers Netherlands and it struck me again how crafty, meticulous and dedicated the partners in the legal chain are working on their profession: judges, lawyers and legal service providers of the trade unions and UWV. You say that's normal. Yeah, but it should be noticed anyway. I also found how many new questions call for legislative changes in practice. It was, of course, both substantive and procedural changes to the law. So, given the changes and experience, let us not underestimate how much impact this and what we call maintenance of these legislative proposals has on the whole chain of law. This has an impact on the representation of the case, compulsory or non-compulsory, the conduct of the case, the investments, the procedures of judges, the Registry and the field surrounding it. There are five of them in the start-up phase, but there is, of course, a start-up phase with the experimental article................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's inevitable. In the documents, the Minister constantly talks about changing jurisdiction, but I assume he means: for the whole of legal practice. My group and the Minister are, I hope, leaving from the same constitutional objective, but, as I have said, we are still faced with a number of concerns in practice in the development of these noble thoughts. They actually transcend the four legislative proposals, but well, we cannot ignore them in this context. I'm gonna go check on the specific proposals. I would like to discuss three issues in a more focused and specific way, namely the impact of the rising deficits in the budget of Security and Justice on the citizens seeking justice, the safeguards for 'go/no-go' decisions, which Mr Rombouts also mentioned, and the oral procedure and ruling in plenary session. Let me start with the money. This morning's debate is also the shadow of the debate on the risks of the budget of Security and Justice, which is being conducted separately this afternoon, sometimes by the same spokesmen, but not in my case. The debate on the budget and legislation on the quality and innovation of justice (KEI) should not be confused, but the issues should not be seen separately, especially with regard to these proposals. In the debate on the budget, also on the other side, much attention is paid to the police and the public prosecutor and much less to the justice system, where there are serious concerns. Modernisation and digitisation are already starting to lag behind in budgetary terms. These are now financed by the Council's reserves for justice. That cannot, of course, be a structural solution. This phenomenon was already mentioned in 2015 by the House of Representatives in the debate with this Minister on bill 34059. I would remind the Minister of the interventions of Mr Van Nispen and Mr Oskam. The Minister did not deny the growing deficits, but he would adapt a sleeve to them. So I summarize his reassuring words of at least that time. In the meantime, it is fourteen months later and I read in the note on the basis of the further report on the written examination in this Chamber that the Minister puts the ball back to justice for its solution. But that's too easy. When I look at the Minister's reply in the note, I see the well-known jargon coming back: price agreement, financing systems, balancing interests, costs and benefits. Of course, all these things are very sensible, but they are not the real answer to the question asked. Of course, serious questions have also been asked about the method of financing justice over the past period. I would like to refer to the Cohen report, although it is still cautious, and to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the reactions from the field, that is to say the distress call of judges. My group's position is that the growing deficits should primarily be resolved by the Minister and not be passed on to the courts. If they do, they will inevitably lead to irresponsible production pressure in the courts. Let me remind you of the counter-light publication and the Leeuwarder manifesto. They also have a negative impact on implementation decisions in the KEI project. Such decisions focus, in the editing of digital facilities and perhaps in the provision of services, not primarily on the quality of the service to be provided by justice to the seeker but on minimising costs. It's so obvious that this is going to happen! Furthermore, choices do not take sufficient account of the interests of other partners in the chain of law. Examples of this have already been mentioned in the Silex letter and the discussion in which the NSA has so actively mixed up. In short, the important KEI legislation should not be built on financial quicksand. The financing of the case-law should also take due account, in a structural manner, of orderly KEI implementation, including possible delays or adjustments. We organized a round table in this house because we got signals that some things weren't in order yet. In that conversation, a judge actually put it together very nicely. He said, "We thought digitisation was an investment in quality, but it turns out to be a cut!" I do not rule out costs being saved in the long run. It would be very weird if it weren't, but that still has to prove itself. In the first phase, additional initial investment is always needed. Testing and pilots also cost almost always more money than budgeted. Then you can say that there is poor budgeting. No, it's very difficult to provide for all of them. The Elias Commission has already indicated that it is no different for ICT projects of the government and perhaps even more serious. There are plenty of examples of this. Both the budget of Security and Justice and that of the Council for Justice are based on savings made. The necessary earmarked money must be there if this is to be justified. Then it's not about frivolous spending and bells and whistles at all, it's just about what's essential. Therefore, I would like to receive the most recent insight into structural funding for 2016 from the Minister and I hope that on this aspect there will be a reassuring prospect for the 2017 and subsequent years budget. I come to the criteria on which the 'go/no-go' decision is based. From what I have said, you might conclude that my group is blaming the Council for the Court of Justice for the deficits or delays in the KEI project. Nothing could be further from the truth. My group is impressed by the professionalism of the project management that is being carried out there and by the interfaces with those involved in the chain, with Spir-it............................................................................................................................................................................... This is based on an extremely thorough BCG report and on the progress report. This is also reflected in the Minister's six-monthly progress reports. The last letter dates back to April 29th. The phased implementation looks logical and structured. This proved to us in the technical briefing and in the round table organized in advance by this Chamber. We should not underestimate the complexity of the project. This was also evident at the round table. Despite all the Minister's reassuring words, the process approach I have just praised is the risk that emerged at the round table: the dynamics of budget control, targets and'milestones' are going to dominate. This is reflected in the progress report. But the case law is not a production plant whose output can be continuously increased, despite the management jargon that still prevails there. The core is a careful balancing of interests for the benefit of the judge, with an optimal administration of justice being the decisive criterion. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. In that case, my group does not consider his fine words on the rule of law to be the same. I haven't gotten there yet. The Minister has previously taken sensible decisions on the timetable and ambition in the process and in his first action on KEI legislation. Moreover, thanks to the Oskam motion, space has been created in the Lower House in the sense that six months will come after the adoption of the bill. A passage from the letter sent to this Chamber by the Minister on 26 April 2016, along with the progress report, gave us hope. Let me paraphrase the letter. The Minister wrote that he was in agreement with the case-law in order to identify the risks as best as possible and to keep them as low as possible. He said to do this at the next stage only by making digital litigation work well and reliably. On the test and on the further roll-out, he is advised by the Council for Justice. In doing so, he will involve the chain parties. In the meantime, like Mr Rombouts, I have concerns about the implementation of this 'involvement'. The project has ended up in the red in terms of funding. It is the task of this House to make a sharp test of feasibility. In this context, I would like to invite the Minister to show himself this time to be a good listener and director and to take a step further than he has done so far in the preparation and in the documents relating to that concept of 'involve'. I specifically focus on the required safeguards around the test of acceptance of digital facilities and their guidance. This guidance should broaden and objectify the Minister in such a way that all chain partners have confidence in it. The Council of Justice, as the sole adviser to the Minister, does not consider my group to be wise, given the interests involved in this radical change in the working methods of all those concerned. The RO Act leaves room for such an approach, but in my view that is not good for the board itself which is under budgetary pressure and in a continuous state of negotiation on funding with the Ministry. It is not good for the minister himself, because other chain partners could rightly accuse him of under-appreciating their interests. Last but not least, it's not good for the one we're all doing it for, the one looking for justice. It can trust that all interests in the rule of law will be taken into account in a balanced manner, even after the legislation is out of our hands. The letters we received from the Dutch order of lawyers (NovA) d.d. 14 June and the Council's response to the case-law of 14 June. 24 June this year illustrate that there is now no consensus. There is consensus on a number of things, however, but not yet on important issues. There's still a long way to go. We are only at Civil 1.0 and we continue to Civil 5.0. There are still a lot of steps to be taken. Then there are also the specific and legitimate wishes of the Silex offices, part of the NOVA. Examples of this have also been given. You can see that decisions have already been taken on budgetary grounds not to facilitate certain things with the arguments that they do not occur often and that they can also be done in a different way. I have serious doubts about that. Those who have actually remained silent, but can also experience a problem with accessibility in the digital age, the small law firms and agents. They too will have to make investments, while the revision of the legal aid financed is also the case with the Wolfsen report, as a dark cloud hanging over their heads. I may refer here to the position paper of the NOva d.d. 22 June at the Lower House. It will reach us sooner or later. As a co-legislator, we have a duty not to cover that, but to seek to ensure that it is implemented without the Chamber sitting on the Minister's chair. All this leads the D66 Group to make a strong point to the Minister that he is doing wisely to expand his circle of advisers. During the written preparation I suggested setting up a temporary committee KEI, which provides additional procedural guarantees in the implementation of "go/no go" decisions. This committee or body should be able to count on sufficient support from the partners in the chain of law and should follow this up in a responsible manner. Then the involvement of the other partners in the chain of law will actually be given substance. It seems to me that it is a pleasure for the Minister not to get a multitude of dissension opinions on every next step. That forum is missing now. Our round table functioned as such, but it is of course not intended that this House should continue to do so after the legislation has been adopted. I think this aspect of implementation is so important that I am considering asking the Chamber to give a ruling on it. That depends, of course, on the Minister's reply. As a third and final point, I would like to make a few comments on the oral part-session. That brings me back to the legal action. As has been said, the development fits in with the spirit of what is going on in administrative law. However, comments also fit in with all the positive aspects of faster treatment. In the debate in the House of Representatives, the Minister showed an enthusiastic supporter of the oral statement and compared it with the progress of the compatibility after reply. Asking for a plea becomes an exception, it seems. It is not entirely clear whether this is possible at all. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the interesting consideration given by Professor Ahsmann in Ars Aequi on the historical development of the plea. Rapid resolution is indeed generally desirable. I endorse that. However, the specific interest of the seeker may also lie in it, especially in complex cases, that his case "à tête reposée" is, to put it nicely, studied throughout the Chamber after further changes of documents. Exhibits may reveal the missing facts in the interest of the seeker. My concern is that, because of the fact that the oral procedure has been informed, the allocation of, for example, evidence orders is unstructured and is highly dependent on the court in session. I am referring to the legal unit in the Netherlands. I would like to hear from the Minister how the justice system can shape this wisely. Moreover, it is well known that citizens have difficulty in hearing the oral statement. That is not a question of poor hearing, but of stress, stress at a hearing. It's a good thing there'll be a written verdict later. It goes without saying that the establishment of facts and the statement of reasons are important for the appeal and the unit of law. Already I hear from judges from practice that, for example, the new Work and Security Act will issue a decision at the end of the session which will lead to disappointment, because the judge had otherwise understood it at the hearing. That's understandable and explainable. I come to a more fundamental point, namely the misconception that speed of treatment should be decisive for the design of our procedural law, and sometimes even a synonym of justice. This sometimes sounds in the oral procedure of these legislative proposals. This may be the result of the idea of efficiency. I would like to make a strong plea here for the cherishing of fundamental rights and shared values. Of these, fair trial is one, but that is not equal to: take it off as quickly as possible and as long as the budget is sufficient. Optimization, efficiency, is simply requested in legal practice but it is limited by the human factor; by the judge, lawyers, clerks but above all by the judge seeking justice. I have also read the Acts of the House of Representatives. However, I would like to say here that there is a legitimate desire on the part of the judge to use all available legal remedies that the Civil Procedure Code has to offer in search of a just outcome. That wish must be guiding and not disqualified in advance because that legitimate desire does not fit in a unit of time for a product. Doing justice isn't production, doing justice is doing justice! In the Court's view, this desire to use certain remedies may not be legitimate, but it must not be made impossible in advance. The qualitative requirements for oral rulings remain too vague and I would like the Minister to give a clearer definition of them today for the purposes of legal practice. I started my contribution with Geert Corsens. I also end with a quote from the same farewell speech. "It is (...) the responsibility of all of us to bear the rule of law. It is not just judges who bear that responsibility." I would like to add that this also applies to legislators. My group awaits the Minister's reply with interest and will only then pass her final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u11	Madam President. In 1996 Youp van 't Hek explained in a conference the concept of "book" to his children as a pile of faxes. They still understood a fax. In 2016, twenty years later, most children no longer know the term "fax," let alone that they have ever seen one. A fax is something from past times. However, lawyers still communicate with the court by fax. In order to start a lawyer's practice, having a separate fax with a separate fax number is still a necessary condition. Not only lawyers, the whole legal practice needs digital litigation. It would be nice if we could put aside the time that we had to call the court clerk to ask if the 24-page production that has just been faxed actually came in; two weeks ago still reality. The legislative proposals we are discussing today, also known as the KEI proposals, "KEI" stands for: Quality and Innovation's procedural law is modernised and digitally litigated. It is even made mandatory for professional parties. It is essential that my group is strongly in favour of these quality and innovation layers which are aimed at achieving the legislative proposals to be dealt with today, provided that the changes are actually improvements and that the proposed implementation and associated planning are truly realistic and feasible. I have built up my speech along three lines. The first line concerns the consequences for procedural law, the second line concerns the technique of KEI and the third line concerns financing. I'll start with the consequences for trial law. It should be noted in advance that the adaptation of terminology is very welcome and will also contribute to reducing the gap between justice and citizens. The fact that a "role" or a "decision" becomes a "decision," that "subpoena" is called up and that the "court hearing" turns into a "session," will mean that those seeking justice will understand better what is happening and will experience less distance from both legal practice and those granting legal aid. Another advantage is that the minutes can be replaced by images and sound recordings. It is quite archaic that recording the minutes often takes more time than the entire witness hearing itself. In an open letter in the Dutch Juristenblad of 5 February 2016, the President of the District Court of Amsterdam, Ad Ros, outlined KEI's challenge. He put it as follows: "How can the benefits of digitisation of the flow of information within the judiciary be exploited without individual cases being subordinated to the system?" This means "system" for both the digital information system and the increasingly interlinked organisation of justice. Ros outlined this challenge because of the fact that procedural decisions are no longer taken by the investigating judge but are invested with staff who have a directing function. These employees act strictly according to national guidelines. This may result in, for example, a request for a stay of proceedings or a hearing being rejected for breach of the national procedural rules, whereas payment of the request will increase the likelihood of, for example, a settlement or avoid unnecessary appeal. In short, Ros is concerned that the particular circumstances of the individual case are subordinated to a uniformisation of judicial decisions necessary to enable the digital system to function. In his view, the system will thus determine the content of judicial decisions. How does the Minister view these risks? Can he indicate how it is ensured that the procedure and the decisions themselves can continue to be adapted to the particularities of the individual case? I'm gonna join the tech. It has been said many times by my group: the government is certainly not that good when it comes to ICT projects. In the debate on the supplementary budget states of the Ministry of V and J, I will make another comment and ask questions about ICT developments in the national police. These too are not flawless. The report of the Elias Committee, which was presented to the chairman of the House of Representatives in 2015, spoke volumes. I ran that again last weekend. There is much to learn from the excerpts from interviews. Now the Elias Committee issued its report after the KEI programme had been launched. However, it is conceivable that the Minister has taken a good look at the conclusions and recommendations. One of the conclusions of the Elias Committee, for example, was that steering information often turns out to be a watermelon: green from the outside, red from the inside. In other words, most of the control information puts those responsible on the wrong track. The steering information is insufficient for management and control. How is good steering information ensured within the KEI programme? How does the Minister prevent him from getting put on the wrong track? He may answer that the realization of KEI is a responsibility of the justice itself, but he is the one who will be faced with an increase in costs, for example. As far as these costs are concerned, they were raised from initially EUR 60 million to EUR 200 million in May last year. Partly this can be explained by an extension of the programme to criminal law and supervision, but in part there must also be other causes. I hope to hear from the Minister later what other causes are and what recommendations he has taken to heart from the Elias report in the further design of the digitisation of litigation in general and in particular to avoid further costs. If my group understands correctly, procedural proceedings can be carried out through both My Justice and the Connecting Point. Most procedural acts are carried out through the Connecting Point. At the Connecting Point, unlike My Justice, it does not work with a lawyer's pass and therefore authorization is not at individual level but at organizational level. The Minister does refer to so-called connection conditions in which this will be regulated, based on existing privacy legislation, but the question is whether that will be sufficient. The European General Data Protection Regulation, which entered into force on 24 May last, requires privacy by design. Privacy by design means, in short, that if you can enforce authorisations by technique, you should do so. Why isn't the end-point also unlocked with a lawyer's pass or another token to ensure identification and authorisation at individual level? I have one comment to make on technical malfunctions. In the report of last 17 June, the SP Group pointed to the national breakdown of 23 May. My group knows: 100% availability of an ICT system is rare. The chance that the system of My Judgement or the Connecting Point will also be removed is very real. This may be due to the system of justice itself, but it is not unthinkable, for example, that a cable has been accidentally cut into the ground or an Internet provider has been hacked. This can also be the cause of delays. The Minister states that if there are any malfunctions outside the jurisdiction, the parties themselves must demonstrate that malfunction. The question is how such a party can do that. Can such a party be sufficient to refer to a newspaper or will he or she also have to consult the agreement with a particular service provider? How far does the duty of proof go? How do parties implement this? The draft decision Digitisation of civil procedural law and administrative procedural law provides for an alternative delivery of documents in the event of a malfunction in the event of an emergency. According to the Minister, "a non-digital emergency facility will be provided for an alternative digital communication channel with chain partners and process parties" via the telephone. Now it may be up to the speed of the answer, the questions were submitted on 17 June and the answers were after the weekend, finished on 22 June, but how can an alternative digital communication channel take place over the telephone? Apart from the Dutch channel of communication, the question arises as to whether we still need to keep the fax in hand as an emergency facility. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. While we are talking about facilities in the event of malfunctions, the Minister writes that daily downloads of the files for all digital sessions are made on a secure data carrier that can physically be located at the seat location. Is there also a diversion outside the venue of the hearing? It is good to use offices to back up documents on a daily basis and to keep them outside the office's location. I would also like a response from the Minister. Madam President. I come to my last topic: finance. ICT projects almost always run out in time, functionality and money. What if this is also going to apply to the KEI project? During the examination of the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice in December 2015, it has already been discussed that the Justice Council has a deficit. The Council is keen on own resources; there is not enough meat on the bones to cope with setbacks. However, own funds are not intended to finance the digitisation of litigation. A company without own funds is technically bankrupt, at least, it will not be able to get credit from any bank because its solvency is dramatic. The savings to be made by the KEI programme have already been made and administrative staff have already been or are being said goodbye. What if the financial resources are really exhausted and the Council's wallet for justice turns out to be really empty? The Minister refers in the note following the report to the additional EUR 20 million he added in 2016. He writes that he is negotiating a price agreement for the period 2017-2019. Previously, in response to questions from the SP Group, he stated that the cost increase in April 2015 was EUR 147 million. Those are other amounts. The Minister explains this on the basis of a business case. I can hardly imagine it being so much, EUR 147 million. That was in 2015. What's the status over a year later? Is there a recalibrated business case? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Madam President. I'll come to a conclusion. The VVD Group warmly welcomes the opportunity to process digitally, let this be clear. It is high time to finally refer the fax to the Museum of Communication. It also clearly sees the advantages of the adjustments to procedural law. It still has a number of questions and concerns about procedural law, technology and funding. She is curious about the Minister's answers and reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposals we are discussing today aim to simplify civil procedural law by proposing a uniform procedure and a basic procedure for both applications and claims, to abolish compulsory service (by the bailiff) and to harmonise civil procedural law as well as administrative procedural law on time limits for the performance of certain procedural acts and the delivery of a judgment. In addition, digital litigation is made mandatory for almost all professional parties, both in civil law and in administrative law. A natural person is not, in principle, obliged to sue digitally unless this person is represented by a professional legal aid provider. Digital litigation is introduced in stages by type of case. The implementation of the digitisation and modernisation of civil and administrative justice provided for in these legislative proposals is the responsibility of the Court of Justice. Justice with a capital letter, i.e. the Council for Justice and Courts. The government's underlying aim with these legislative proposals is to make the judiciary more accessible and to modernise justice in civil and administrative law where necessary. Procedures must be simpler and faster and justice in the Netherlands must be consistent with the digitisation of society. The PvdA Group supports this aim and appreciates the proposals made by the government in this regard in the legislative proposals before us. We particularly welcome the possibility offered by the proposals to the parties to take care of the delivery of the process introduction to the other party and thus to save bailiff fees. We also consider it very positive that the paper process remains open to natural persons who sue without a professional legal aid provider, with which the government has addressed the fact that not every seeker will be able to sue digitally. Of course, we also have questions. How can it be different in the case of proposals which are also aimed at digitisation. We all know very well that the government has not always been successful in this area. The Committee on Security and Justice of this Chamber spoke very recently to representatives of the professions involved in the introduction of the digitisation project of the Court of Justice, i.e. representatives of judges, lawyers and bailiffs. A large part of the issues and questions raised below are in line with issues and concerns raised by these representatives in the Round Table with the Committee. An important point for the PvdA group that was raised in the round table is the fear that the system will be decisive instead of following because, as has been argued, it is digitised from a wish for uniformity, a desire for far-reaching uniformity of justice. In this context, the main focus was on civil procedural law, which, in the existing situation, has a great deal of differentiation. In particular, judges fear that, especially in civil procedural law after digitalisation, much will change in a way that affects the autonomy of the court. On the other hand, the new basic civil procedure gives the judge more scope to direct the conduct of the proceedings. However, the explanatory memorandum notes that at the same time the uniformity of justice remains important. The PvdA Group invites the Minister to address, in the light of the possible tension between the importance of uniformity on the one hand and the importance of sufficient room for manoeuvre before the courts on the other, the fears expressed during the round table that digitisation will affect the autonomy of the judge and the ability to provide customised work, because the system will be leading instead of following. During the round table, the lawyer argued that after the digitisation of the case law there would be no equality or arms because the lawyer in the courtroom is not well equipped, because there is no monitor available, while the prosecutor and the judges have one or more large screens and a fixed connection to the server of the courtroom. Another stumbling block, according to the lawyer, is that the bill would assume that the lawyer should upload procedural documents and not leave these actions to administrative staff, for example. The PvdA Group asks the Minister whether these two points raised by the lawyer are indeed correct and, if so, what possibilities he sees to remove these obstacles to the legal profession. At various times and places, the Minister has clearly indicated that digital litigation will only start if the digital system functions properly and reliably. At the same time, the Introduction Act contains an experimental clause that makes it possible to experiment with real cases and real people in civil matters. Judges and lawyers are concerned about experimenting with real cases and fear that the children's diseases of the digital system will be borne by the seeker with whom his case is being experimented. The President-in-Office of the Council for Justice has just argued that the experimental clause is necessary in order to be able to experiment with real cases and real people, because otherwise it would be dry swim. The PvdA Group wishes to hear from the Minister how that experimenting with real things and real people relates to the Minister's repeated commitment that digital litigation will only start if the digital system works properly and reliably. We also ask the Minister whether experimenting with real things is justified at all and how long the experimental phase is in mind. After the experimental phase, the mandatory pilot phase is followed by two courts. If this pilot goes as desired, then the introduction of digital litigation for the type of business in question will take place at once in the rest of the country. This raises the question at the PvdA Group whether or not enough tests have been carried out on what the system can handle in terms of volume, because from a pilot at two courts to full implementation at once in the rest of the country, is a very big step. And more generally, we ask the Minister what emergency solutions are there if parts of or even the whole system are not unexpectedly working or stalling. Finally, I would like to mention the financing of the investments that the judiciary must make in order to implement the digitisation of justice in practice. In the note to the report, the following can be read: "In the legal financing system, the costs of digitisation and investment in modernisation are part of the price fixed by the price agreement. A project funding does not fit into the legal system. The Court of Justice is itself responsible for the efficient use and distribution of resources." This passage could give the impression that the investments currently made by the Court of Justice in the extensive digitisation project have been taken into account in the cost of the case-law. However, the discussions that the Security and Justice Commission had at various times with the Council of Justice have made it clear that these investments were not included in the cost of justice, i.e. no additional resources were made available by the government for this important and extensive digitisation project. The digitisation project of the Court of Justice must therefore in fact be financed from the reserves of the Court of Justice. With the budget debate on 15 December last. I would like to ask the Minister, almost rhetorically, whether there are any reserves in the judicial process? During the round table of the President-in-Office of the Council's case law, we understood that the red figures are inevitable, but that the Minister has promised to fill the deficits. If the Minister is no longer prepared to do so at any time, the digitisation project must be stopped, as we heard from the President of the Council for Justice. The PvdA Group asks the Minister whether this financial uncertainty does not put a great deal of pressure on the Council for the case-law to be irresponsibly squeezed on parts of the project or to withdraw funds from the ordinary resources for justice in order to be able to pay for the digitisation project. And more generally, we would like to know from the Minister whether he considers it worthy of an independent state power to actually have to operate on the puff. We await the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. When examining the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Minister congratulated the First Chamber on the digitisation of this part of the Binnenhof. And he did so to emphasise that digitisation is urgent in the case-law. Within the First Chamber, as far as I can verify and I hear today, there is no resistance to that trial. As with us, the case law with digitisation can also take full advantage of the conveniences and benefits of today's technology. This applies not only to judges, but to all parties involved. If documents are better available and the process can be better monitored, then digitalisation will also increase transparency and thus the accessibility of citizens to the law. However, the Minister also has a quality goal with the digitisation, the project is called Quality and Innovation for a reason. What exactly does the Minister mean by quality improvement, and what are the criteria for this? And is the digitalisation being designed in such a way that there remains sufficient room for individual customization, the differentiation which also guarantees the autonomy of the judges? After all, that too is part of quality. Does the Minister agree that digitisation is an investment and not a austerity measure? I have already said that the difference of opinion with this Chamber is not in the principle of digitisation. However, it concerns the framework conditions for the introduction of this process. Have they been sufficiently careful and well-behaved, and are they being dealt with accordingly? Because whether digitalisation leads to the desired effects, namely reducing the workload and making justice more efficient and accessible, depends to a large extent on the implementation process itself. Experience shows that the relationship between government and ICT does not exactly guarantee a happy marriage. I hope the match in the minister's marriage is a better one. The Elias Commission made a safe estimate of government waste in ICT projects two years ago: 1 to 5 billion. The fact that this huge gross estimate was sufficient already reveals an important part of the problem. The public authorities have too little insight into the costs and drive ICT projects flawed or not at cost, over the duration of the project and even on the end result. It is certain, and unfortunately not so, that these conclusions concern only the past; they still apply to the present day. And that is incomprehensible, partly in view of the government's ambition to introduce an entirely digital service by the government in 2017. The dramatic development of the digitalisation of the government is not just a matter of turning with a Commissioner for Digital Government or an ICT Examination Office, which is placed hierarchically with the Minister for the National Service. The problem has root causes and as long as they are not addressed, the government continues to carry out operations that are risky and far too expensive for citizens. Let us learn the precious lesson that the government itself must have more responsibility and control in digitisation projects. This can only be done if we organise sufficient own expertise within the government, end the interlinkage between government and business, after all, the interests do not coincide and companies pay more for their performance. Does the Minister share this view? What steps is the government currently taking to make the transition to a digital government responsible and cost-effective? These notions apply, of course, to all parts of the digital government. But the question of the KEI project is whether we have learned enough from the failures of the past. In the success or failure of the digitisation project, access to justice is at stake, an essential element of our rule of law. That is why the First Chamber stands so much still today. If implementation is not sufficiently careful, too hasty or accompanied by insufficient resources, digitalisation can even achieve the counter-effect. Work pressure is increasing, which will damage quality, and procedural barriers for process parties are increasing in particular, which also does not benefit the quality of the process. The programme on which the four legislative proposals we are debating are based is not called KEI: Quality and Innovation for nothing. It is important for this Chamber to review the legislative proposals that allow digitisation in the jurisdictions of administrative law and civil law in order to achieve that quality objective. In the opinion of my group, this objective requires care. The pace of implementation so far, while maintaining its entry into force as of 1 January 2017, worries my group about the diligence of implementation. My group considers it undesirable to experiment with real things and people. Why not continue testing, for example, to ensure that childhood diseases are not at the expense of those seeking justice? Why are these risks taken with real cases? Important for preventing problems is that the process has been cut up in different phases. Before the next stage begins, the Council of Justice will have to make sure that all the criteria are met. Since this is not always easy to establish objectively, my group believes it is very important that all the chain partners concerned agree that the next stage can really go into a responsible phase. Does the Minister agree with us? It is not excluded that the Council is already satisfied, but that other actors still see problems, either in the judiciary or in their own profession. If this is not sufficiently recognised, the problems in the next phase can only increase. How does the Minister ensure that all chain partners are sufficiently involved in the implementation both in establishing the criteria and in reviewing the "go/no-go" moments? How is it ensured that the different appreciations and experiences are sufficiently taken into account within the judiciary? Who ultimately decides on the "go/no go"? Is that up to the Minister or the Council for Justice? How can we prevent a funnel vision of the entire route? Would it help if such moments were shared with the Chambers? Then there is the financial resources needed to ensure that implementation is successful without compromising the quality of justice. In recent years, judges have warned us several times about the high workload they experience. The Minister assumes that digitalisation will reduce this workload in the long term. Whether that is wishful thinking or will become reality, we still have to wait and see. The fact is that the current implementation process is in competition with the normal tasks of the judiciary. Working time goes to training, consultation or the development of a new method and criteria, reorganisations, you name it. A further increase in the workload is irresponsible in relation to the case law and risky in terms of the quality of judgments and the duration of proceedings. This, of course, affects citizens who are dependent on a judge's ruling. For example, if you want to be heard at a hearing, it should not have the consequence that you will not be invited to a hearing until six months later. Then access to justice is at stake. In short, there can be no more workload. If we want implementation to be careful but not to damage the current work processes, there will have to be sufficient additional funding. The Minister said at the end of last year's discussion of the justice budget that the Council has made funds available for KEI and that the Minister himself will give more money in the coming years as a result of validation. We must now note that the Minister did not make any additional resources available for KEI in the spring note. We understand that the Minister's judiciary is told that they should only be in the red if they lack funds. Is that true? That is not a serious way of budgeting, is it? In doing so, the Minister is actually using the chain parties to rule on the puff. My colleague has just said this. The Council has informed the Minister that it really needs more money for KEI in the near future. The Minister writes that 2016 is a crucial year for implementation. At the same time, the necessary additional resources for the 2017-2018 budget are still being negotiated. In the view of my group, the uncertainty about the means and the non-timeliness of facilitating is extremely undesirable and irresponsible. Moreover, according to the documents of the Spring Note, the Minister has been making a structural booking for KEI as of 2018. Does the Minister really expect the introduction in that year to produce money? If so, what is this saving based on? Is this assessment realistic, given the fragmented and phased introduction and the civil delays that have already occurred? Why didn't the Minister opt for sound project funding? After all, it is earmarked. In addition, their use can be monitored separately. I like to get a reaction. The starting point of the implementation varies from legal area to even sub-area. In addition, criminal law is not included at all at the moment. Can the Minister explain how he guarantees an integrated approach and working method, and how the implementation experiences in other areas are sufficiently learned? I'm gonna move on, 'cause I'm running a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u14	We have plenty of time, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u15	I'll just finish the story. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the area of administrative law, implementation begins with asylum and detention matters. The Minister wrote in April that an evaluation meeting was recently held with all interested parties. What were the main conclusions and what measures have they led to? In particular, detention matters will be closely linked to admission or withdrawal procedures, including in the field of regular alien law which has not yet been digitised. How does that work in practice? In other areas, too, there will be more consistency with files in areas where paper files are still working. Can the Minister explain how this was anticipated? My group always attaches great importance to the protection of personal data and the quality of data in digitalisation processes, and to keeping the public authorities accessible to people who are not involved. In addition to the security level of data files, the rules for accessing files are a determining factor for protection. If they are too wide, they can no longer be used for the unauthorised or unnecessary inspection and use of such data. In a digital database, accessibility is no longer dependent on a physical classification of the courthouse. Strict criteria for determining who is given access for which purposes are therefore necessary. Those criteria should also be strictly applied. This requires rules, awareness of those rules and supervision that is adequately equipped with capacity and powers. Is that being complied with at the moment? And are these criteria and rules regarding privacy and data quality also borne by all chain partners? Is this also checked at the "go/no/go" moments? Can the Minister promise that the possibility always exists to work with paper files if natural persons cannot come with the digital government? It is very important that this should be the case at least now, but we would also like a guarantee for the future. Is accessibility, not only for the so-called digibeet, but also for illiterate citizens, subject to periodic reviews? Does the government actually have a general and consistent view of this accessibility when introducing the digital government? The legislation on electronic messaging, for example, provided for other safeguards. The starting point was that we all had to move on. Now we see something else. So I would like to hear what the view is on general digitisation. My group supports the digitisation of justice and assumes that it will provide greater ease and accessibility for all parties in the long term. It's not gonna happen on its own. The benefits of digitalisation will only be achieved if we take it one step at a time and introduce it under the right conditions. We hope that the Minister will show that this is the case, if not, then our priority will be care, not urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. According to the government, the present legislative proposals, defined as renewal programmes Quality and Innovation Justice, aim at ensuring the high quality of our case law and responding to the societal needs for innovation of justice. Let me say first of all that the SP Group supports the objective of digitisation and modernisation of justice. She's in favour of it. This does not mean that there are still many problems to be solved before this new area can be fully accessed by all concerned. In other words, today we must also answer the question as to whether the current legislative proposals in this form can adequately bridge or bridge the gap between the theory and the practice of digitisation. In this context, I would like to draw attention to two aspects of the legislative proposals. The first concerns the new legal deadlines which should speed up the passage times of the court proceedings in conjunction with the role of the judge. The second concerns the lack of clarity and the question of the preparation of the most technical aspects of the introduction of the laws and the associated risks. I will discuss in my story and contribution a number of issues that my predecessors have discussed today. A lot of good and interesting questions have been asked. I fully agree with that. I don't want to repeat them, but occasionally there will be a duplication. I'm gonna have to be forgiven for that. I would like to endorse what my colleagues have said earlier. I now turn to the new legal deadlines and the role of the judge. According to the explanatory memorandum, legislative proposal 34059 leads to five substantial changes. I will not deal with all five of them, but I would like to go into two of the changes, namely the new legal deadlines and the role of the judge. The Minister states that the establishment of legal time limits for the performance of procedural acts may give parties greater clarity as to the conduct of the procedure. Of course, we agree with that aim. However, the question arises as to how the deadlines and the enforcement of the deadlines are now under the applicable law, and what exactly is going to change in a positive sense under the new law. As is well known, in recent years we have regularly asked the Minister for attention and critical questions in both the Lower House and in this house about the considerable delay in the judicial process in terms of lead times and judgments. The Minister has always answered those questions by stating that the delay was quite easy, that there were plans for improvement, that the judges were doing their best to do so, that is certainly so much and that the delays would be a thing of the past in the short term. Unfortunately, every day's practice shows the opposite. Anyone who looks into the causes of the delays can see that it is not the attitude of the parties to the proceedings and certainly not the commitment and the work force of the judges. The main causes are the years of austerity in the justice system and the policy of the Minister and the Council of Justice, which has given the administration more and more power over the judges and the administration increasingly determines the content of the case law. A number of colleagues have already expressed this in their own way by saying that the system is going to determine the content, while it should be the other way round. That's what I'm saying here. The result is that the judicial system has become literally and figuratively overburdened by austerity and the so-called administration of the judiciary in the literature. Precisely these factors are due to the delays in the case law and the regular exceedance of deadlines. To clarify this, I would like to refer first of all to the aforementioned NJB article of the judges of the Central Netherlands Court of 30 November 2015 and the results of the survey of the so-called Counter-Lighting Group of January this year. These judges presented their petition to the House of Representatives last week. They pointed out that concerns about the state of the case were widely borne in the caselaw and that the lower limit of good justice had been reached. It is quite a matter for judges in the Netherlands to establish that! They argue that good justice costs money and time, but lacks both. That hard conclusion is supported by clear facts. The rise in the need for justice shows the reactions of the judges in the survey. I'm quoting one of them. "I also experience that the domain of the judge is constantly being further restricted. This concerns not only the time needed for plenary sessions, but also the very limited time for the preparation of the session and the afterwork, the total time for a case. As an individual judge, we no longer have any influence on that. It is either damaging your health and working in your spare time or damaging the quality by doing less than necessary. So it's a dilemma. Moreover, as a judge, we also have no influence on the way in which support is provided. Customisation is certainly not necessary, read possible, in the tight regime of the court schedule for judges and support." In this short quote you will find all the bottlenecks that are currently in practice due to cuts and administrativeisation. In addition, the current system of judicial compensation is largely based on productivity rather than quality. This starting point, combined with the cuts, such as the Counter-Light Survey, but also the earlier Leeuwarder manifesto, leads judges to turn in quality for quantity. In the opinion of the SP Group, there is coercion towards the judges, which is not only contrary to the independence of the judge, but is also at odds with the duty of the judge to make good and responsible judgments and to provide tailor-made solutions. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this, in particular by asking him whether and, if so, how the KEI legislative proposals will improve the administration of justice and will result in the quality of justice being restored. In this context, I also refer to the article What is wrong with the judicial organisation? published by Professor Bovend'Eert in Ars Aequi in May 2016. That has been referred to earlier. He concludes that many judges complain about the Council's case law, the administrative organisation of the courts and the unilateral emphasis on management and production. He noted that in practice the system of performance-oriented funding resulted in a strong business approach to the work of the courts. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares Professor Bovend'Eert's conclusion and, if so, what consequences he draws from it with regard to the present legislative proposals on KEI. I also believe that the article by Judge K. van der Kraats of 12 February is of particular relevance in this regard. in the NJB with the title Kortklaar in derechtshof? It notes the tension between the board and the judges as follows. "Quality is always related to function. Without that relationship, quality is an empty concept that, almost unnoticed, is quantitatively completed. Where the criticism is that quality is filled in quantitatively, the conclusion is that the quality of the judicial work has not received sufficient attention in the past period. The Council is not concerned with quality. Under Article 94 RO, he has only a supporting role in the activities of courts aiming at uniform application and promotion of legal quality. Nevertheless, the Council has given itself a role in terms of quality, at least it has formulated qualitative performance indicators. (...) Judges have one responsibility and that is to do justice in the specific case before us. Therefore, standardisation does not fit within that judicial domain. Standardisation is useful for management and management, but loses sight of the objective of enabling the court to do justice in the specific case." I would like to hear from the Minister to what extent he considers that the role of the judge in the direction envisaged by the legislative proposals is still to be reconciled, also in view of the above quote, with the current practice of case law, in which the administration increasingly conducts the direction and the role of the judge disappears into the background. In my opinion, an imbalance has arisen which is at the expense of the judge and in favour of the administration. I would also like to hear how the directing role of the judge relates to KEI's intention to standardise standards and processes, i.e. to what extent KEI's straitjacket leaves sufficient room for justice. With regard to the specific aspect of the lead times, I would like to point out the following. The current and future Code of Civil Procedure provides in Article 20 that the judge is to guard against undue delay in proceedings and, if necessary, to take measures at the request of a party or of his own motion. This is sometimes forgotten, but this remains in the law. However, in practice, this provision of law is actually a dead letter. It is all too often that the reasonable deadlines are exceeded without any explanation from the court and that interested parties who complain about them are not heard. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister why the new legal deadlines will enable us to eliminate the existing delays in justice and prevent future delays. I would like to draw attention to Professor Ashmann's warnings in the article "KEI: stoneware or quicksand?" From last year. With regard to KEI's savings and social returns, she quotes the Minister's words "that, a little earlier than in 2019, thanks to KEI, social benefits are expected to be around 270 million a year." I believe that Mrs Strik has already asked for this. Where do we get the proceeds and the benefits? This is what has been said. Much of that amount, 250 million, will have to be achieved through more efficient use of social capital, and now the debt instrument comes from shorter transition times of the procedures. I don't see any shorter lead times in the procedures at all. Professor Ashmann points out that the Minister's prognosis was based on a report by BCG from December 2014, but that this report does not support in concrete terms how this saving is realised due to shorter lead times. That is why, of course, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he considers that 2014 forecast to be real and how, in his view, the expected benefits due to the shorter lead times can actually be realised. I don't think there's any evidence for this so far. However, I would like to be persuaded by the Minister of the contrary. I come to my final part, namely the uncertainties and the risks associated with the implementation of KEI. Others have already said a great deal about this. First of all, I must of course address the major network failure in the case law of 23 May last and the Minister's answers to questions on this matter from the SP Group. It goes without saying that the failure of 23 May, as the Minister says, was a very unpleasant surprise for justice. The fact that a network fails because of whatever cause and that at the same time the reserve system fails is very exceptional, but can never be completely ruled out technically. We know that. There may have been force majeure or bad luck. You can do that. So far, so good. What we do not understand and what we find worrying is that one month after calamity the Minister and the Council are not able to report more than a thorough investigation is taking place. Asking an ICT specialist teaches us that the fact that after a month there is no insight into the cause of a malfunction is incomprehensible and worrying. I ask the Minister to respond to this. I would like to hear from the Minister, also in view of the Elias Commission, which has already been mentioned by others, how he has fulfilled his own responsibility in this matter and what steps he himself has taken to find out the cause of the disaster of 23 May. Moreover, I have heard that it is now known within the walls of the Ministry where the causes of this major disturbance lie, but I have not yet been officially informed of this. Maybe the Minister can fill us in on that. I am very curious and I assume that the other Members in this Chamber are as well. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that the importance of a well-functioning and therefore reliable network for justice and the trust that society must have in that network, precisely in view of KEI, is sufficient for the Minister to take his own responsibility seriously. He has to investigate the causes himself. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he's prepared to do so. We have also noted, also on the basis of the round table mentioned above, that the KEI system still has many uncertainties and risks at present. I will mention a number of them. This is not an exhaustive list, by the way. There is still no written and secure emergency procedure for malfunctions other than the system of justice or the lawyer. In the event of a prolonged malfunction, the case law seeks to rely on the old paper procedure. However, the staff required to carry out this procedure are already being dismissed. So that seems rather difficult to me. The upload limit is good, which is bad Dutch version of 10 MB offers too little space for uploading photos and footage. Lawyers should also supply digitally with issues such as blueprints and zoning plans. However, they often have a different format, so that an ordinary A4 scanner as recommended by the case law is not sufficient and an alternative is not offered. For confidential documents, no digital submission method exists yet. So far, no case has been tested from start to finish. I come now to a very important point that was raised during the round table. There is no plan to absorb the expected capacity loss of 10% after KEI roll-out, while the lead times in some courts are already unacceptable. I'd like to hear from the Minister what this means in cash. A 10% loss of production seems to me quite something when you see what is produced by the whole of justice every year. It is simply assumed that there is a 10% capacity loss. What does that mean for justice? How's that hole gonna be filled? Is the Minister prepared to spend extra money on that? There is not enough money to guarantee an adequate and secure Wi-Fi connection in the courts for all attendees. Medium-sized and large offices that have invested in the Connecting Point have to do it for the time being with a semi-fabricate that offers less possibilities than the web portal. These complaints and others have been raised in particular by the NSA and I can agree with them. I'll come to a conclusion. It follows from the above that the SP Group has serious doubts as to whether the project is ready for implementation in the short term. As has already been said, our group is definitely in favour of digitalisation. At the same time, I have to note that at the moment there are so many uncertainties and risks to the existing system that it is not justified to introduce it already. I therefore call for some delay, for temporisation, for example, for a six-month period. I would like to know from the Minister what objections and perhaps insurmountable objections there are to taking that time. In particular, I would like to give the people who have to do this difficult job and all chain partners the opportunity to work carefully and carefully towards the moment when we can proceed to implementation. My group looks forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-eerstekamer-3.u17	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
