ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u1	The rules of the game are still two minutes' speaking time per person, including the submission of possible motions, which are preferably short and concise. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. For a long time we have been concerned about the group of ggz patients/clients and the Long-term Care Act. There is much uncertainty as to whether this group belongs to the Health Insurance Act, the Youth Act or the Social Support Act. Along with Mrs Keijzer from the CDA, I tabled a motion a while ago to provide certainty and clarity to this group. Since there is still a great deal of uncertainty, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas persons with a severe psychiatric condition may require life-long and life-wide care that cannot be provided under the Health Insurance Act (Zvw) or the Social Support Act (WMO);]] [[noting that in 2014 the Chamber adopted the Keijzer/Bergkamp motion stating that this vulnerable group of ggz patients should be granted access to the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz);]] [[noting that since spring 2016 there has been a corresponding advice from the Dutch Health Institute and that the State Secretary is in the process of taking an execution test which he thinks he will need until the summer of 2017;]] [[Notes that this is taking far too long and instructs the government to speed up this execution test and to inform the Chamber by 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u3	It is an important motion, which was adopted by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Keijzer on the people in mental health care who should actually be covered by the Long-Term Care Act. Should I interpret the fact that they now need a motion to instruct the cabinet to carry out the previous motion in such a way that this is a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u4	I understand the background to Mrs Leijten's question. The Secretary of State has indicated that an execution test should be carried out in the context of due diligence. Mrs Keijzer and I attach great importance to this care. That is why we have asked for the implementation test to be carried out earlier from the point of view of care, which will speed up the clarity of the group we were talking about. So Mrs Leijten's interpretation is not correct. What is true is that Mrs Keijzer and I would like the process to be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u5	I note that a motion of censure is a motion of censure when it says that confidence is cancelled. And that's not in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u6	No, Mr. President, I saw that, too, but if you get an important motion on vulnerable people two years ago and you give the Secretary of State the room to be careful, then I wonder how careful we are ourselves. We shouldn't have called the Secretary of State for an emergency, we should have just done it. I shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, which is all very well, but I wonder why Mrs Bergkamp is confident that the Secretary of State is going to do so, while he has been making a motion for two years and at that time all those with mental problems end up between shore and ship, who cannot go to the health insurance company and cannot go to the municipality when they need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u7	I understand Mrs Leijten's displeasure. I feel that myself, but I also think it is important that this group is handled carefully. If we need an implementation test for this, we support it, but we do call for clarity as soon as possible. That is the reason for the motion by Mrs Keijzer and yours truly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. The care destruction of this Secretary of State is becoming clear to all intents and purposes. Only he says: everything is fine, everything is fine; there are a few scratches, but you should not enlarge them. It is a great tear that is being pulled into our society! With older people who receive 12 hours of care, the conversation is started whether they do not want to move to the nursing home because of the damage caused by this case CZ. When I see that on television, not only do I get sad, but then I get very angry. Didn't we have all this planned? If you're gonna tear it apart, you're gonna see people being pushed through like a hot potato. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the district care is seen as a cost item by the health insurance companies, and CZ even lets people with 12 hours of care a week ask if it is not time to go to a nursing home;]] [[noting that this does not create tailor-made care but a permanent pressure on as cheap as possible;]] [[noting that this makes people insecure and feels redundant or too expensive;]] [[considers that the district care and the inpatient care should not pass people on because of the costs;]] [[calls on the government to develop a scenario to reintegrate community care into the Long-Term Care Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u9	After sneaking out of municipal care and community care, we had a Long-Term Care Act that is actually not accessible. People with a lifelong care question, who could always rely on the Long-Term Care Act, cannot do that anymore. I made a call last Friday to report to me problems with the indication. I'll send them all to the Secretary of State because he says there's no problem. I'm assuming he solves them all. However, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the conditions of "permanent supervision" and "24 hours a day care in the vicinity because someone is unable to seek assistance at relevant times and to avoid serious harm to himself" give very limited access to the Long-Term Care Act;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the indicative conditions in such a way that people with a high need for care are given lifelong and lifelong access to the Long-Term Care Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u10	I have a question. During the AO there was a serious clash between the Secretary of State and my person and Mrs Leijten, also on this subject. The Secretary of State says, no, there's no problem, the system's right. I look at the motion and the law, which contains two criteria: 24 hours of care in close proximity or permanent supervision. Do I understand Mrs Leijten correctly that she says that in practice they have stopped together and that is why you get the situation that someone who can press a button is not eligible for the Long-Term Care Act, regardless of the intellectual disability, dementia or whatever? If that is what Mrs Leijten means, it should be stated in that motion that the indicative conditions should be brought back into line with the law and not with a financial problem this Secretary of State has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u11	I understand what Mrs Keijzer is asking. I have wrestled with the drafting of this motion. Indeed, if you say that it has to comply with the conditions, the Secretary of State will say: yes, but the law is clear; it is simply the execution by the CIZ. From people who make indications and from people whose indications have gone wrong, I've heard that you see that the two are added together. Care for people who need care 24 hours a day or need permanent supervision is sometimes not present, even if the need for care is still so great. Take Sander Hilberink, a boy with a disability who can handle it very well himself. He actually wants the assurance of the Long-Term Care Act, but instead he may beg his insurer every year for an indication. That's the same health care provider who says if you get too many hours of home care, you should go to the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u12	And the concrete answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u13	I've been looking for an answer to the question of whether you can link it to those 24 hours, that button, or you can name it all. Then I thought, "Let me open it as much as I can." Something must be done about the conditions and it is up to the Secretary of State to find out how it fits in with life and life. We must offer safety to people and not let people beg year after year to their health insurance company or municipality. It can't be that these people have to prove every year that they need care. That is what I find so terrible and what goes so terribly wrong with the indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u14	Is the explanatory statement clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yes. I'll wait for the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I believe that not only during the debate on nursing home care but also during the debate on the Long-term Care Act, there was talk of rates for care for the elderly. The NZa is investigating whether these rates are adequate. To a question from my colleague Mr Bergkamp, the Secretary of State replied that he would consider whether the investigation could be speeded up so that the Chamber could be more clear on this matter. I welcome that commitment, but I also feel that other tariffs are getting a little snowy. I am thinking of transport charges. The NZa is also investigating this. I put the question in the debate as to whether this study could also be speeded up. I mean, it's kind of stuck around. If that is not the case and if the Secretary of State comes forward with generous commitments, I can still hold the motion. I'm gonna serve her up just in case. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by leather shows that 30,000 people do not have access to daily consumption due to insufficient reimbursement of transport costs;]] [[Whereas access to daily spending is of great value for people themselves, but also for their carers;]] [[whereas the NZa is carrying out additional studies on transport tariffs, but this will only lead to improvements in 2019 at the earliest;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the NZa, to accelerate the investigation so that, on the basis of the results, people can have access to appropriate daily spending as early as 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion today, but I would like to remind you of something else. When the Wlz was voted on in September 2014, the CDA voted in favour of the law because we felt that it improved the position of people in need of long-term care in an institution and that it regulated the right to care. We did, however, give an explanation of vote at the time, which was particularly about the financial sustainability of the law. Did the Secretary of State count well? Can he use the amount of money to give all those people who need that care, too? You must now note that it squeaks and cracks. The discussion I just had with Mrs Leijten was about the indication. You can see that in practice people, from whom all involved say that they are eligible for the Wlz, do not get that care. I am very concerned about the general practitioners and nurses who go home in the afternoon and then wonder if they are doing well with the patient they visited earlier that day. But they don't get an indication! I am very curious to see how the Secretary of State responds to Mrs Leijten's motion, because although I do not think the wording is entirely correct, the world behind it is absolutely also the world that comes to me through all sorts of messages. Finally, I repeat what Mrs Bergkamp said: it will be three years since this Chamber declared that people with a long need for care because of psychiatry belong in the Wlz. I can only see this Secretary of State pushing it out for himself. In the spring of this year, the Healthcare Authority commented that these people actually belong in the Wlz. It is insufferable that you then have to take a year over an execution test. I'm very curious how the Secretary of State responds to that. That was exactly two minutes, Mr. Chairman. Pretty good, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 151 asks me to speed up and bring forward the execution test. I am willing to discuss this with the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the Dutch Healthcare Institute. I would like to emphasise how we are in this discussion. We've decided with each other what regime these clients are under. This has led to the criterion that these clients are covered by the Long-Term Care Act over a period of more than three years. Then there was a debate on whether we are using the right substantive criteria. We have asked the Healthcare Institute whether there are any other criteria than the somewhat harsh three-year standard. The Healthcare Institute then gave its opinion and said that this could be done. You can formulate and apply substantive criteria. I think two things are important here. Firstly, we have specified very carefully the people who are now members of the Wlz-indicables group. We are working with all those people to make sure that no one falls between ship and ship and that everyone gets good care, whether in the Wlz or in the Wmo. We should not interfere with this process, because many people are pleased that this clarity is now there and that it leads to a number of decisions. This motion asks what it means if you can speed up those substantive criteria. I would like to see if I can speed that up, but there are now careful agreements with people about getting good care, in any domain. I don't want that trial to be interrupted. I want to see how we can move forward, but I do not want to see the careful process that we are going through with these people again disrupted by adding, as it were, new uncertainty and saying that it might be different again. That would also be unfair to the people who are now inundating and who are faced with the same criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u20	Judgement of the motion as it stands, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u21	It is stated that the execution test should be brought forward. I have said that if I may read the motion in such a way that I am going to look with the Healthcare Authority and SIN at how to speed it up, I am prepared to leave the judgment to the Chamber. But I really need to talk to the institute about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u22	On behalf of Mrs Keijzer, too, I would ask the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber about this within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u23	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u24	What does that mean for the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u25	We'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u26	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (34104, No. 151). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u27	In her motion in part No. 152 asks Mrs Leijten to develop a scenario to include district nursing in the Long-Term Care Act. One of the main benefits of the whole reform is that the district care system, in close connection with the general practitioner and also in connection with the social domain, is being designed in a new way with plenty of space for the district nurse. I think it would be very bad if we now had to take a step back, both for the development of the profession and for the good new first line we are currently working on. I really don't see any reason to change this again right now, so I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u28	Surely such a scenario doesn't mean that you no longer have a relationship with the general practitioner and that you no longer have any freedom to determine your work? Now the health insurance company says to the neighborhood nurse, "Have a chat with mister or ma'am, who gets too much care." Did you see it yesterday in Nieuwsuur? Those people just feel redundant. Well, then you're gonna make sure that moving that hot potato stops, right? Then you're going to make it one regime for payment, right? The way people do their jobs doesn't have anything to do with it, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm not in favour of it. We have had a whole discussion about the change of laws, systems and responsibilities. We are now in the phase of making that work. There will undoubtedly still be a number of issues to be resolved in implementation. You are now proposing a system change, while you are always blaming me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr Secretary of State, I am opposed to the discussion that has taken place during the general consultation being resumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u31	I stand by my judgment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u32	You've given a judgment. Mrs Leijten, do you have any questions about that judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u33	What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that district nurses don't talk to people from their profession about the life and care that is needed, but are commissioned by the health insurance company: Mr. and Mrs. get a lot of care hours, go and check whether they want to go to the nursing home? Does the Secretary of State think that's part of the new district nursing service?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u34	No. The district nurse must make the substantive assessment of whether it is justified for care reasons to continue to give the care at home and whether there is a need for more care or whether there are health criteria that are not justified at home and you need to find another solution. That's not about the finances or the jars, it's about the care content you need to discuss with the people. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u35	Does Mrs Keijzer have a question about the State Secretary's opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u36	No, I have a point of order. This is the VAO Wlz, but this is about the Health Insurance Act following last night's broadcast. I am going to request a debate on this in the scheme. I also have the questions that Mrs Leijten has just asked in her interruption. But they don't belong here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u37	Your point of order was more of a comment than a request to colleagues. That point is clear in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u38	No, it was a request to you as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u39	To cut off Mrs. Leijten? That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr President, would you rather say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u41	I choose my own words. Mrs Leijten, the request of the Chamber is to have that debate at another time, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u42	We'll see about that in the scheme. This is an explicit request to include the district care in the Long-Term Care Act and that fits here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u43	Third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u44	We have already discussed this extensively in the AO. The motion states that the criteria currently laid down in the law mean that access to the Long-Term Care Act is very limited. This is not evident from the CIZ figures and reports. That is what we exchanged in the debate. We have indicative conditions that are right to see that the criteria of the law, such as 24 hours of supervision, or that the care is not planable or callable, result in people who need that care, getting it or in a home situation or in the Wlz. Can I make another comment on that? We should not make the mistake that care under the Wlz is safe care and that it is different under the Health Insurance Act. I know Mrs Leijten's example too. That is not about whether 24 hours of supervision or planned care is needed. It's about someone who says, "I'd rather not be with the health insurance companies." That's another discussion. We have criteria in the law. On that basis, someone gets an indication. It just needs to be followed. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 154 is asked to speed up the investigation of the NZa, unless, as I understood Mrs Dik-Faber, I would like to confirm my commitment. During the AO, I undertook to offer the Chamber the preliminary investigation of the Healthcare Authority into the transport tariffs in 2016. I can still keep that promise. I'll provide my policy judgment. Then we can discuss it further. I would advise against the motion, given my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mrs Dik-Faber, do you have a question about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u46	Given the commitment, I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u47	Since Mr Dik-Faber's motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-8.u48	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
