ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Yücel in Box K. I also say from my own experience that it is always very special for a Member of Parliament to be in that business to defend your own legislative proposal. Mrs Yücel is supported in the defence of the bill by Mr De Geest and Mrs Akdemir, a policy officer at the PvdA Group and the other former policy officer. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. That's special, Counselor of the Chamber; I see the Minister thinking. Today we are discussing the first term of office. Continuation of treatment is planned at a later date in consultation with the initiator. I call Mrs Siderius of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. For the first time 60 years ago, the Netherlands received a female minister: Marga Klompé. Then the so-called second feminist wave arose, among other things, from the discontent about the social position of women. That was 50 years ago. It is incredible that we still have to fight for equal rights today. That is why I congratulate the initiator, Mrs Yücel of the Labour Party, who is trying to achieve equal pay for women with this initiative proposal. We live in 2016, but the level of salary still depends on whether someone is male or female. The wage gap in the public sector is 11% and in business as much as 21%. Sometimes a deliberate distinction is made between men and women, but often a subconscious distinction is made. That is why it helps if companies and works councils are aware of this. The initiator rightly writes on the website of the Labour Party: I do not accept this, women have to earn the same as men in the same work. Talking about pay differences is important, but the way we are actually going to address these differences is perhaps even more important. European research in 2015 shows that gender pay differentials are relatively large in the Netherlands. In neighbouring countries such as Belgium and Luxembourg, but also in countries such as Slovenia, Lithuania and Bulgaria, the gender pay gap is much smaller. This is exemplary for the position of women in the Netherlands. Compared to other European countries, the employment rate of women in the Netherlands is relatively low, there are few female students and the Dutch women spend most of their time on Cyprus's afterage. And what about the proportion of women in top positions, the possibility for men to take paternity leave after childbirth and the small number of single mothers with young children who are economically independent? The Netherlands is everywhere at the bottom of the rankings. Does the initiator also say of these points: I don't accept this? If so, what is she going to do about this? In our view, accountability alone is not a solution. If it is up to the SP, it will not stop with this initiative proposal but work will be done to actually strengthen the position of all women in the Netherlands. Women on low incomes have health problems more often than men in the same position. The proportion of women at risk of poverty is higher than the proportion of men at risk of poverty. Women therefore constitute a majority in low-income households. What will the initiator do about it? Is it not the policy of Secretary of State Klijnsma that the position of single women, whether or not with children, has just deteriorated? I refer to the introduction of the cost sharing standard, the lowering of the social minimum and the changing allowances for single parents in the assistance. It is precisely the Labour Party that is responsible for these cuts. How easy is it then to leave this inequality untouched and only to opt for the easy solution? Doesn't the initiator accept these demolition plans? Is the initiator prepared to address these problems, poverty and inequalities between men and women, which have arisen as a result of government policy? What about the dichotomy that has arisen in education? Why has the gap between lower and higher educated been only widened by this cabinet? If the initiator doesn't accept that women earn less for equal work, doesn't the PvdA accept that in the meantime it matters in the Netherlands what kind of family your cradle stands for or you can climb up in education or even go to a university? Also policy of a Labour Minister's Party. Or think of home care, where most women work, where wage dumping is the order of the day with large discharge waves by Secretary of State Van Rijn, who cuts off home care. Also policy of the Labour Party. I really want to know from the initiator what she is going to do about this in the course of the debate. As far as the SP is concerned, it's really too narrow to just throw it at the pay gap. Another important element in addressing pay differences is the pursuit of an active diversity and anti-discrimination policy. Has the petitioner considered including this in this bill? Cases such as pregnancy discrimination also affect the unequal position of women in the labour market. Is the initiator willing to broaden its proposal? In any case, the SP is considering an amendment to this section. The "I don't take this" message on the website of the Labour Party also states that the Labour Party will publish names of companies that continue to pay women: naming-and-shaming. And the PvdA is going to award the Minister an annual prize to the most modern employer in the Netherlands, the employer who pays women and men equally visibly. Why is this not included in the own-initiative proposal? Aletta Jacobs and the Mad Minas are praised by the initiator for their tireless efforts to remove the inequality between men and women. The SP also expects the initiator to make tireless efforts to remove the pay gap between men and women. Making reports by companies is too small a step. As far as we are concerned, more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thanks and compliments to the author and also to the official support. They are sometimes forgotten, but they really are the driving force, as I know from my own experience, for this kind of legislative proposal. It is also a good thing that it has led to them all now being in box K to defend this proposal. The proposal is sympathetic. The starting point is also for the Christian Union that men and women should not receive unequal pay for equal work. In practice, it is evident that this is still the case. We have also seen some figures on this. It is a good thing that Mrs Yücel is looking at how to deal with this. The discussion is a little confusing. It's often about pay inequality on the one hand and pay differences on the other. Those are two different things for us. There are differences in pay, not only between men and women in an organisation, but also between men and men, between women and women and between certain ages. This has to do with competences and with how far you are in your development, all things that can justify differences. I'd like to make that clear. It is only really a problem when women are actually paid less for equal work at the same level as men. That brings me to the first question about this bill. I would like to hear from the initiativer what her proposal is about: tackling this gender pay inequality in equal work or addressing the phenomenon of pay differentials more broadly. If that is the case, how exactly does this bill contribute to this? And what exactly does the initiativer's bill add to what is already possible? The Council of State has pointed out that the existing legal system is final. Reward inequality is already forbidden. If it happens, you can go to the College of Human Rights or the judge in the Netherlands, as the Council of State says. In addition, the Council of State points out that, if there are pay differences, the works council can already withhold its consent to an undertaking's remuneration system, for example, if positions held mainly by women are unduly reduced. I'm going to say a complicated sentence, but this point is important. The initiator proposes that the works council also give its assent to "a scheme of the company's policy of equal treatment for men and women with regard to all elements and conditions of remuneration." That's a mouthful. I'm looking for a little bit of what's right here. Is that a competence that the works council already has, as the Council of State states, or is it a further addition? I cannot tell from the note on the basis of the report or the explanatory statement exactly what the applicant means. Is it something that is already in part C of the article? Then why does it still need to be recorded? Or is it a much more far-reaching provision in relation to part C and, if so, what exactly are all the elements and conditions for remuneration? It is crucial for us to know what that means in order to be able to properly assess this. I hope the applicant will be able to fill that out as well. Is this article now also a basis that obliges companies to have policies on equal treatment between men and women on pay? Should they make that policy and, if so, in what cases? What is the legal basis for this? The initiator only amends the Works Councils Act. It is, I suppose, not the intention that we should give works councils the right of assent to something that companies do not have to do at all. I can't find the legal basis for that remuneration policy. If a company does not have to make a policy, how can you give consent to a works council? Perhaps the Minister could also clarify the legal situation. Then I come to the disclosure obligation. At least once a year, the works council is already provided with written information on the level and content of the labour-conditional arrangements and arrangements for each group of persons employed in the undertaking. It is now added that the percentage of men and women is indicated for each group. How does the mention of this percentage contribute to addressing the problems that the initiator intends to address? To mention a percentage does not seem to me to be the solution to a problem. I'd like to get a substantive response. This also applies, to a certain extent, to the obligation relating to the annual report. It should include information on the extent of the differences in remuneration of female and male workers employed by the legal person. If there are concerns, it is necessary to describe how this is being improved. But if I look very closely at the legal text, then the figures are about the pay gap, while the improvement policy is about remuneration inequality. It's still a discussion, but it's really an important difference. Those are really two different things. One sees on all the salaries of all men and women in the company. The other, the policy, looks at the rewards of men and women who have the same function. I do not understand why the terms "reward difference" and "reward inequality" are used so interchangeably in the legal text. This makes it even more unclear for companies what to do if the proposal is adopted. I've asked a lot of questions. That is because I still have a number of doubts, or at least I do not have a clear idea of what this proposal is going to mean, what it is going to see and whether it is consistent. I therefore await the reply of the applicant. Then we'll weigh this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the initiator. Much respect for Mrs Yücel, who took the initiative for this legislative amendment. I know how much that's asking of you. Compliments for the supporters, because I know how much work that means to them. One thing is clear: there must be equal pay for the same, equal work. If there is unequal pay, we have had a law for this since 1980: equal pay for work of equal value. Unfortunately, it turns out that this construction is not waterproof in practice. That's too bad. We just see it's not working enough. Women earn 18% less than men. If a man earns €1, the woman gets €0.82 for the same work under the same conditions. I'm sorry, that shouldn't happen. But I can see that there has been a decline since 2008. At that time, the differences were still above 20%. How does the applicant view this development? In addition, I find it interesting to see that women between 25 and 30 years of age earn just a little more than men. Something seems to be happening there. But let me be honest: after the thirtieth year of life, the difference rises rapidly again to almost 25%. What explanation does the applicant see for the higher salary of younger women? Does she expect this to continue? In its own-initiative paper, the applicant refers to good examples. Among other things, she mentions Belgium, where the pay gap is 8.6%. Then why didn't she opt for that Belgian model in her own initiative law? What are the motives for that? I also see that the applicant uses different concepts. She talks about "reward inequality," "reward differences" and "reward discrimination." In the note on the report, she explains that "reward inequality" is the legal term and "reward differences" is the economic one, but she herself refers to "reward discrimination." That's really confusing. I'd like some clarification. Through this proposal, the applicant wants to ensure that the works council understands whether there are pay differences and, if so, how big they are. This will then appear in black and white in the annual report. That is what my group is interested in. The applicant indicates that the success of the law is "partly dependent on the use of works councils and employees who attract the difference in remuneration." But I wonder if that is not already the case. Now that is also a subject for which, if people do not care, there is no attention either. Although the applicant says that the instrument chosen makes it clear what inexplicable differences there are, it is still up to the company itself to do customization. Let me get this straight. After that, isn't there a blueprint of what needs to be done? For me, this is an essential point. If there's no blueprint after that, what can the works council do? Then what can he hold on to? I imagine it to be as follows. There is a statement from the company explaining how the pay gap has arisen and how the company is going to reduce the difference. However, I am struggling a little bit with the question of what happens next. So how do you go on? What if nothing happened the next year? What can the works council do? I'd like to hear this from the performer. That brings me to the question of whether the works council can cope with this extension of its tasks. Does he have the right expertise in the house? The applicant states that knowledge development in the field of pay differences should become a part of the training of or members. I understand that, but how does she see it? And who is responsible for the additional costs? Has the applicant also considered the relationship between the increase in the range of tasks on the one hand and the degree of progress that can be achieved on the other? Are there any examples of this approach in other countries? Although small businesses are excluded, my group still sees some challenges with regard to the companies that are just outside. The privacy of employees should be paramount with regard to D66. This initiative law should not interfere with that. I would like to receive a response from the applicant, but I would also like to hear the Minister on this. To sum up, my group is in favour of all the initiatives that contribute to reducing pay gaps between men and women, but they must be successful. The legislation is already in place and compliance with it is certainly a debatable point. This bill certainly provides an insight into whether there are differences and how big they are. Awareness is also an important element, but to the question of which handles the or actually has, I would like to get a clearer answer. I have therefore asked the questions that we have in the drafting of the legislative proposal. I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Yücel and her support for this initiative legislative proposal; my compliments. The drafting of an initiative proposal takes a lot of time and energy, but it is an incredibly valuable political instrument. Mrs. Yücel, I'm glad you filed this law. It is time we finally came up with a serious approach to reducing the gender pay gap. For earlier speakers have already said it: emancipation is not finished. Only half of women are economically independent. The upper layer of business is still dominated by men. The cabinet has committed itself to promoting more women at the top, but the minimum rate of 30% of women on the boards of business has remained at only 11%. Women's emancipation is more than just voting rights and higher education. The financial position of women needs a new emancipation. Today, on average, a woman earns almost 17% less than a man. This means that a woman loses about €4,000 a year in a fashion income. Of that amount, you could pay almost a year's rent. Or you could pay the tuition for two kids. And the situation of femalezzp'ers is even harrowing. They earn about 30% less than the average malezzp'er. This while a woman like her buys something in the store really doesn't pay a lower price than a man. She has the same costs but other revenues. The Netherlands is also dangling at the bottom of the European ladder when it comes to remuneration inequality. The Netherlands is also lagging behind in the field of paternity leave and female professors. We may find ourselves very emancipated, but the figures are not lying. Women earn an average of 3 tons less than men throughout their working lives. Moreover, a woman has to work about half a day a week more than a man in order to be at least economically independent. It is therefore time for genuine financial equality, so that more women can stand on their own feet. As several parties have pointed out earlier, this difference in pay is not easy to explain by discrimination or by unequal qualifications. Mrs Yücel therefore states that the difference in salary can be partly explained by various factors, such as training and qualifications, the number of years of service and the age, but that there is also a part that cannot be explained. These inexplicable differences still lead to a wage differential of 8% in Dutch industry. This inexplicability also has to do with unconscious disadvantage of women. Insight into unconscious action often leads to a more conscious way of acting. GroenLinks therefore shares Mrs Yücel's view that making the pay gap more transparent and transparent leads to a more equal remuneration system. However, I do have some questions and comments on Mrs Yücel's initiative law. First of all, I would like to refer to the difference between remuneration inequality and pay gap, also mentioned by Mrs Yücel. Reward inequality is the situation in which a man and a woman are rewarded differently for the same work, for example two policy officers in a ministry. Reward difference is the situation where a man and a woman are rewarded differently for different jobs, for example someone who has worked for years and works at the top of a company and someone who has just come to see and started at the bottom of a company. In order to gain a good understanding of the inequality of remuneration, it is also good to distinguish between the differences in remuneration. Apart from the fact that the works council should therefore have an insight into unequal remuneration, these differences should also be seen in relation to function groups. The bill regulates this for the works council, but not for the annual report. The annual report will only make it clear to the public that the pay gap is divided into different function groups. For example, if within a company there are mainly female employees in the post of secretary and especially men in the position of senior policy officer, you can't just throw those salaries into one pile. Separating pay differences in function groups gives more clarity about the actual, inexplicable pay gap between men and women. That's what we're here to do. Would it not therefore be better to divide the pay gap into function groups in the annual report? I am considering tabling an amendment on this. If the works councils gain insight into the pay gap between men and women in function groups, they may see even more different causes. As far as we are concerned, the works council should be given the power to investigate where this inequality of remuneration comes from in order to determine the cause of this. At present, this possibility is not yet laid down by law. This may, however, give works council members a certain right to gain more insight into the criteria on which the remuneration is based. Is Mrs Yücel prepared to add the possibility of having the works council examine the cause of the inequality of remuneration to the legislative amendment? I am considering tabling an amendment on this too. The amendment of the law deals with the inequality of pay between men and women. However, I am also curious about the pay gap between men and women. How is it that stereotypical women's jobs are rewarded so much less than similar male jobs? Women's occupations and sectors in which many women work are structurally undervalued in pay. A nurse, often a woman, earns less than a medical technician, often a man, while they have a similar level of qualification. Generally speaking, the more women in the sector, the lower wages. That's not from these days. Is the Minister, who is here as an advisor, prepared to examine these pay differentials and look at ways to better value female jobs and sectors for qualifications rather than gender? I also have questions about the implementation and evaluation of the bill. Works councils have many tasks and responsibilities. The acquisition of insight into remuneration inequality and the right of consent ensure that the works council receives a new task. To what extent will the works council be supported in the new task of addressing remuneration inequality? Will works council members receive information or any other form of information on the new right of assent? Are the men and women in the organisation further informed about this? I am a little afraid that business will behave as it does the responsibility for the number of female board members. The minimum of 30% of women on the boards is barely reached and companies then ignore the requirement that the annual report explain why this percentage was not met. How is this bill going to prevent companies from refusing to explain the responsibility for remuneration inequality in the annual report? Are there any follow-up steps if this change of law does not produce the desired result? Finally, I would like to stress once again the seriousness of the gender pay gap. We can't just sit back and watch, because the difference is only shrinking at a snail's pace. It is important that concrete steps are taken to make real progress and to make real progress on emancipation. After all, equal work deserves equal pay and equal pay is not of this time. Women deserve better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join in the ranks of previous colleagues who have congratulated the initiator and supported the many work that has been done. Over and over again, research shows that there are inexplicable pay gaps between men and women. You can't do that. In the Netherlands, men and women are equal. That's one of the things the Netherlands make Netherlands. It is not for nothing that the ban on discrimination is even in the first article of our Constitution. Our country has grown by considering people as equals and valued their talents. Being treated fairly or not feeling treated fairly is a problem. Sometimes you shrug your shoulders on that when it's small and sometimes you laugh at it, but sometimes you can get angry about it. Unequal treatment goes beyond pay. You just have to ask the question in a conversation and then there are examples about it, like the female director of a technology company who always gets the question if she writes the minutes and the pregnant woman who gets the standard question on the school square how she's going to make a combination with her family and her job while her husband, who's working with his company, doesn't get that question. And why is there social admiration for a father who breaks down his meeting to take his children out of school, but does it cause sighs when women do? Let me be clear that I hate people who are guided by prejudice, because why is a woman a kenau and does a man have a firm point of view? When are we going to prick through the fact that a man already says yes to a job and that a woman broods and then maybe says yes, when the job is already forgiven? We see precisely in studies that the differences between men and women lead to better results in the workplace. Leaders who do not see this and who do not use it have a lot to learn. But I am also greatly annoyed by people who let their shoulders down instead of putting their shoulders down, who see a rejection of an application as evidence that "they" discriminate or that they didn't get the job because they accidentally are a woman, who sit down in suits and rather point to investigations that explain differences than go into battle, who complain about a glass ceiling instead of pounding through it. When it comes to how wrong it is that there are inexplicable pay gaps between men and women, the author of the bill really thinks I am on her side. I just don't believe that this bill is changing the mentality. You don't change mentality through legislation. The works council may already raise pay differences. The Nederlandse Vereniging voor Vereniging voor Verenigingheidschap (NVCoheidingschap) indicates that she wonders whether the present bill is the right solution to the problem and whether there can be no better accompanying policy. I read that as: we are discussing the right problem, but in the wrong place. The petitioner himself states that its law has a symbolic meaning above all. But laws are laws. Laws apply to everyone. Laws must be observed. Laws also create rules and administrative pressure. I urge the author to go into this in her term, because more hassle is causing a fall in the mood of employers to employ people, while we want more people to work. That requires fewer rules. I would like to ask a number of specific questions, since we believe that the answer could be a little sharper. First of all, why does the applicant consider the proposal to be a step in the right direction, even though it itself asks the question whether it is working?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	I will leave the remark about complaining women with the VVD itself. In my opinion, the VVD cannot ignore the fact that the figures show that there really is a pay gap between men and women. The VVD says we shouldn't discuss that here, that we don't need law and that it needs to be discussed elsewhere. But what are the solutions of the VVD? Just discussing it. We've been doing that for years. I have also indicated in my contribution that we have been fighting for years for a better position for women in the labour market and you name it. What will the VVD actually do instead of talking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	I've reported two cases. I said we have to fight hard against prejudice. This can be done with the law in hand if people are discriminated against. That's what the law is for. Legislation exists as regards the VVD to remove obstacles to equal treatment. As far as we are concerned, the legislation is therefore complete, as I see confirmed by the Council of State. But there is also a task for society. I will deal with this later in my speech. I have noted here that I have begun to say that the inexplicable difference of 8% in business and 4% in government is a difference that we find too great. In the Netherlands people are treated equally. I therefore stand here to point out that we consider a lot of things to be important, but not in the form of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	So the solution of the VVD is to enforce the law. I hope that's what we'll do. However, there is still a pay gap between women and men. So apparently the law doesn't give enough grip to reduce that difference to zero. If this is the solution of the VVD, then the VVD actually says: never mind, it's not that important to us, we'll just go on cheerfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	In my speech, I had not yet fully arrived at the solutions that the VVD sees. I'll be glad to explain later. I have tried to indicate my starting point: we are a country in which people are equal and in which people have choices. I think some of the differences in pay can be explained by choices people have made in their lives. Then we still have an inexplicable difference. I also stated in my speech that we find this unacceptable, precisely because we treat everyone equally in our country. An important point that has also been raised by colleagues concerns privacy. How should the works council compare the primary conditions of employment of male and female workers if they are very sensitive to privacy? Several colleagues have also referred to this. Can the applicant justify on the basis of what considerations it concludes that this proposal does not entail any financial and implementing technical burden? Has it included the planning and formulation of possible new policies within a company in its calculations? The Minister also mentioned this law in a number of articles. He states that it is mainly a cultural change. I share the Minister's view. I therefore ask him what this bill adds in his opinion. Discrimination cannot and must not be allowed, but we cannot prevent discrimination by means of laws and regulations. Unfortunately. You're gonna have to fight a little harder yourself, not sit around and put your shoulders underneath. The only solution for effective equal treatment is to talk about your work, about your choices, about your priorities and about your payment where it belongs: at the choice table with your partner and at the employer's meeting table. That's where you map your choices, and that's where the reckoning takes place. This was also done by the woman I spoke to who was temporarily placed in a starter scale after a reorganisation but was still in it after two years, while she already did the work and had the responsibilities that belonged to the functional scale. Many friendly conversations in the P&D department didn't produce anything until at some point she thought to herself: and now it's done. She stood up for herself and then it was settled in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Before you go any further, I suggest that Mr Öztürk asks his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	I hear the VVD say that discrimination cannot be dealt with by law. Does Mrs Van Ark say that Fatma and Eva have to fight in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would point out that Article 1 of our Constitution states for a reason that discrimination is prohibited and that we have laws and rules in this country to deal with discrimination where it takes place. When it happens, people have to do the same, because we don't have these laws for nothing. They say something about the way in which we have agreed with each other in this country. That doesn't mean that a law can always prevent discrimination. I don't have a wand. We all want world peace too, but it doesn't happen if we make a law. Sometimes it happens; we just have to be honest about that. Then you can do two things: you can hang your shoulders or put your shoulders under it. If you put your shoulders on it, you can achieve very nice things in this country. That is what is happening; that is what we see in practice. That's not the easy way to go, but if you do, you're gonna run the road for others, too. That's how you really change a society: from the inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	The conclusion is that the VVD believes that in addition to Mohammed, Eva and Fatma should also fight in the labour market. But you're talking about tackling and strong shoulders. Not everyone does. Not everyone is as powerful as you are to come here. So some of us need support. You say we have laws and ministers here, but look at the discrimination figures. They're getting higher and higher. Look at the racism figures. They're getting higher and higher. Despite your laws and despite your ministers, it is only happening more and more. Then at some point, you have to make a law to deal with it. Your ministers and your cabinet will not reduce discrimination but increase discrimination. That's why we need a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	What are you going to do about helping all these people, all these women and all these migrants, to get a job in an equal way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	I began my speech by indicating what kind of country we are. We are a country in which we are equal and treat each other equally. That's something we all do. We have laws for that. Those laws are the agreements we made with each other. If people are discriminated against, the law in hand can put an end to that situation. Then we are all on the side of those who are discriminated against. In addition, because you cannot enforce everything by law, we also have a responsibility as a society. As a teacher for the class, you need the urgency to look beyond just a name. As an employer and as a colleague, you also have the task of doing so. We, too, have the task of doing so here in this Chamber. However, that is something we do as a society. That's what we're talking about. We also agreed that if you are discriminated against, you can fall back on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	I do follow Mrs Van Ark's speech, but I find it difficult for her to describe a situation that is ideal: that is what we would like. Any woman who knows that she earns less than her male colleague who does the same work and cannot change it within the organisation should go to the Human Rights College. If she's not right there, she should go to court. But that, of course, is not the reality. This bill is about these inexplicable differences. This bill also seeks to raise awareness and appeal. That consciousness is far too often absent. Does Mrs Van Ark really see a solution in telling women to take their rights and express them? Or does she think it's gonna take more? And what else would it take?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think today we are talking about a problem that is certain. I said we were talking about the right problem, but in the wrong place. The legislation and the instruments that we have as politicians are complete. That's what the Council of State says. But it is a very important theme. We must talk about this issue outside this Chamber, in the halls where we as parliamentarians speak. I'd rather the initiator give an interview to the dragonfly than sit here this morning. It is important to involve people, not just women, also men. This is about all of us. This is about the society we are. We all want to be treated fairly. We're trying to make it a good thing for each other. It's about being treated equally. We need to have that discussion. I'm actually taking a turn earlier. My argument is that our legislation is already in place. We're talking about a law that should solve this, but this law doesn't do that as far as I'm concerned. The problem remains, however, and we all have a responsibility in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	It is a curious way of speaking as a parliamentarians when you say that it should not happen here in parliament, but in society. I've been chairman of the Part Time Plus Task Force for a few years. We have done everything in our power to unravel the debate in the country. That's what happened. Then it wasn't worn any further. That task force did its job and did a nice final report, but that's it. What's in it for you? That's not gonna do you any good. We will really have to do it here in this Parliament. Laws do contribute to cultural change. If you make rules that make people aware of what they're doing, it can contribute to cultural change. We are not just saying that we need to think about it and pay more attention to it. It has to be enforced; it has proved so. I ask Mrs Van Ark again what her real solution is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	I go very far with Mrs Dijkstra when she says that laws are needed to enforce things. We have seen this in the opening up of marriage to people of equal gender. We have seen this recently in the treatment of the General Law on Equal Treatment as regards the cancellation of the single-fact structure. That's what we saw years ago when men were still the head of the family. That required legislation. Legislation is needed to remove obstacles to equal treatment. We are now in the process of completing this legislation and yet we still see differences in society. I think it is important that we, as parliamentarians, consider whether we are not moving forward. The initiator also says about this law itself that it serves to evoke the discussion. However, legislation is an instrument that requires careful handling. That way, I'll see if this law serves the purpose. I have doubts about that and I have put my doubts here. However, that does not alter the purpose and the problem we are discussing here. We have existing laws for that. I'm in favour of that, and I'm wearing it out. In addition, we have a social responsibility and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	I hear Mrs Van Ark say that she is obviously in favour of equal treatment. We all agree on that, but unfortunately not everyone can react equally. I hear her telling you to punch through the glass ceiling and do this and that, but there's a large group of people who aren't capable of that. I do not understand why Mrs Van Ark thinks that additional regulation is not necessary. The point is that you strengthen the ore and that it can appeal to the employer. I don't see why all this would bring extra rules. The only rule is that you amplify the orbit a little bit. What rules exactly does Mrs Van Ark find objection? Does it see an opportunity to strengthen the works councils, which play a major role in this, in a way that it does not consider to be additional rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	I note that the works council already has a number of instruments to address the problems we are discussing today in the company. I think it is right that this subject should be discussed in the company. First of all, I think it is a matter between management, employer and the person who works in the company. It is also good that the works council can zoom in on this theme, because it is a problem. But I am looking at what the present instrument adds, and I see that the author and the Council of State say this in firm terms: it doesn't really add anything. I also read the letter from people from the field saying that they can actually do a lot, but that they think the issue is very important and that is why they want to contribute to the debate. Actually, it's about putting it in the right place. If you add a law just because of the symbolism, that's my fear.You create extra rules for entrepreneurs anyway. They will then have to adapt the annual reports and the systems. That's what employees are charged with. Presentations must also be given in companies. So there is a lot to be done, and I would like to see it when it comes to a social issue. However, we all know that extra rules create trouble for employers and make it more difficult to employ people. Jobs for people is an ambition that we share with the Labour Party. Anything that distracts from that, however small, I shall address in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mrs. Van Ark says employees are taxed. I have a question about that. An or is an elected organ. It is up to the or to represent the workers and to put matters on the agenda. Which people will then be taxed? That is exactly what we would say here that we are being taxed. It's your job, isn't it? That's what you were chosen for, isn't it? What exactly does Mrs Van Ark mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	I'm gonna go back to the point I wanted to make. It is a question of whether we have a legitimate problem here. In this country people are treated equally, but we agree that we have inexplicable differences here. We want to do something about that. Now there is a law laying down a number of rules that I wonder whether those rules serve that purpose. We can have all kinds of discussions about words, but this is the bottom line. Everything that we regulate here by law will, I say, produce activities in society. If these activities serve a purpose, that's fine, but if they don't serve a purpose, I'll question them here. I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs Van Ark says that inexplicable differences in pay between men and women are unacceptable. But if a proposal is made here to make sure that the differences are understood, Mrs Van Ark says that she does not want to. Then how are people supposed to know they're being treated unequally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	I refer to the issues which the initiator himself and which are also mentioned by the Council of State and parties in the field. They say that the problem is there, we share it, but we do not see that we are solving the problem with the instruments that are in the Chamber today. I asked those questions, too, and I'm trying to make suggestions. I am raising issues that could work alongside legislation. You can regulate a lot of things with legislation, but society also has the task of putting its backs into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs Van Ark attaches great importance to the discussion at the kitchen table in the companies about the inexplicable pay gap. But first you have to know that there are differences. If you don't know that people with an equal position deserve more than you do, you don't have any handles to do anything about it. It is precisely to get the conversation going that I think it is very important that we make the differences clear. I would therefore like to hear again from Mrs Van Ark how to start the talks if you do not know what the differences really are. I think that is what Mrs Yücel is trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	The issues that Mrs Voortman is asking for are matters that can already be dealt with. It is matters that employees can address themselves in companies. It's a good thing we're having a conversation about that. This bill does not seem to add much. I've asked questions about that. In addition, inexplicable pay differences are a major problem. I also said that they are a major problem in a country where equality is at the top, and that is our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	Madam President. I would like to express my appreciation for Mrs Yücel and her support. She has dared to take up the hard work of an initiative proposal and she is here to defend it. The right of initiative is an important and beautiful instrument of the Chamber, as Mrs Voortman said. It is always good if a colleague dares and does this. The distinction in pay between men and women has been prohibited for years; this is laid down nationally and internationally in treaties. The differences in pay between men and women have declined in recent years, but research has shown that these differences still exist. The CDA Group agrees with the applicant that this is undesirable. However, it has doubts as to whether this proposal for an initiative will actually do anything about this. A number of questions which I would like to put on behalf of my group have already been put by other spokesmen. I'll walk them by. Our questions and doubts relate to the form, content and effectiveness of this proposal. I therefore look forward to the reply of the applicant in its first term. The question is whether the solution should be sought at all in more legislation. The ESC also writes in a report of spring 2014 under the title Discrimination does not work, that there is sufficient regulation in the area of legislation; this is final. The Council of State also writes this in its opinion on the law where it speaks about the pay distinction. In order to eliminate the differences in pay between men and women, the ESC recommends that instead of more legislation, more emphasis be placed on measures to raise awareness. The Dutch Association for Participation also expressly prefers this, according to her letter that we received the day before yesterday. The ESC states that the real difference in men and women's pay has to do with choices in the field of work; financially less rewarding choices are made. The Dutch Association for Participation refers in its letter to the negotiations on the starting salary. This is one of the determining factors that leads to wage differences in the rest of the career. Does the petitioner recognize this? What does she think of the suggestion that this is one of the major causes of differences in pay between men and women? I am curious to see how the petitioner responds to the arguments of the ESC, the opinion of the Council of State but also, in fact, to the preference of the Dutch Association for Participation for a different approach to this problem. What is the added value of its proposal over the choices made by these organisations? Following on from Mr Schouten, I would like to comment on the two concepts so clearly outlined by the ESC. The author writes that she does not want to have a semantic discussion on these concepts. I understand that, but these concepts of "reward inequality" and "reward difference" are at the heart of the discussion. Reward inequality must not and must be tackled. The Council of State concludes that this is final. In addition to this legal term, there is the economic concept of pay difference which has many causes, sometimes explainable and sometimes inexplicable. I have already spoken about the negotiations on the starting salary. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the applicant introduces a third concept, namely "inexplicable remuneration distinction." Both in its response to the opinion of the Council of State and in its explanatory memorandum to the bill in the note on the report, the author seems to use these terms interchangeably. That does not make it clear, as I repeat, Mr Schouten. I would therefore like the author's reply to be very clear as to how she sees it and whether the legislative proposal is aimed at'reward discrimination' or'reward differences' or at 'inexplicable pay discrimination', which she herself has introduced. I also hear from her how this relates to the two concepts set out by the Council of State. That is important to assess what it wants with this legislative proposal and to add conviction as to the doubts that my group has as to whether this is an effective means of achieving that objective. Furthermore, I would like to see the law explaining how it can contribute to reducing the problem of pay discrimination or to reducing the problem of pay differentials in the economic sense. I also find the letter from the Dutch Association for Participation interesting for a number of other reasons. At the beginning of the letter, she stated that she did not know about this bill until last week. I wonder if I've read that correctly. Has there indeed been no consultation with this association and, if so, why not? Which representatives of works councils were consulted on the drafting of this bill? Has it therefore emerged that the works councils do not have enough resources to address the problem of pay differences? You could say that even without this law, a works council in an organisation can address this problem. Following the example of the ESC and the Council of State, the Dutch Association for Participation gives more to see in accompanying policy. Not legislation but bet on placing the polder on the agenda in the ESC or on making agreements between companies and drawing up codes for corporate governance. She sketches that as an alternative. I must say quite frankly that I think it is a convincing story that the ESC, the Council of State and the Dutch Association for Participation come up with. With regard to the technical implementation of the law, I noticed the following. The applicant states that the addition of a paragraph m to Article 27 creates an obligation for companies to develop policies in this area. In my opinion, and also according to the Dutch Association for Participation, the addition of member m to that article merely states that when policies are drawn up, it is allowed to talk about them and it does not mean that policy needs to be drawn up. Other articles in the law also have the opportunity to decide on them if policy is pursued. I would like to hear an explanation of this. The Dutch Association for Participation also indicates that it had found a better alternative to adapting Article 28 to strengthen the position of the or in this issue. I would also like to receive a response from the author. I am also interested in how she looks at the consistency with the amendment of the Works Council Act to which the Minister is currently working. This legislative proposal, which I believe is now under consultation, has to do with the competence of works councils in relation to the remuneration of top executives. Perhaps because this also affects Articles 27 and 28, the Minister is dealing with similar questions and wordings on another subject. Therefore, the question why the applicant has not decided to involve this discussion in the legislative amendment. There seem to be two parallel sections of the same articles in the same laws, and perhaps the Minister will come up with solutions which could be an interesting way of thinking about this issue as well. In the written round, a number of parties asked questions about smaller companies that have an or, where there is a risk of privacy in disclosure, as this can then be reduced to one or two persons. Is disclosure wise, given the privacy? I ask the author how she looks at this risk. I conclude with the Council of State, which recommends reconsidering the proposal, on the one hand because of a lack of added value and, on the other hand, because of the risk that after the adoption of the law attention will focus on compliance with new obligations rather than addressing the causes of pay differences. I would like a response to that. How does the applicant view this risk? Both the SER and the Council of State as well as the NVCooperation wonders about the commitment to accompanying policies and awareness-raising would not be a better alternative to achieving the goal that is supported here Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Keklik and her support on the great work they have done. It is a very important subject that serves a lot of people, especially women. Throughout the centuries, women have fought for equal rights. The reason for this was the subordinate position in which women were pressed. It was laid down by law that women were unable to act, were not allowed to sign contracts and were not allowed to perform public functions. The Socialist Workers' Movement fought for women's rights. Combatable and strong women struggled for well-paid work for women, better education, right to vote and an equal position within marriage. Women soon found that obtaining certain rights in practice did not mean that there were equal opportunities. Think of equal wages, good childcare and redistribution of paid and unpaid labour. It was not so long ago that women had to stop working from their employers when they got married. Inequality between men and women still exists. Many of the original themes are now less topical, but there are still plenty of issues that deserve attention, such as economic independence, the position of women in the labour market and equal pay for equal work. This has been the case for years, as can be seen in the Working Wives Plan of the early 1970s, which calls for equal pay for equal work, which is still a topical issue. Once again, it often seems to be well regulated, because there is legislation to ensure that there is equal treatment. And yet it still happens regularly that women earn less than men, while they do the same work. Sometimes the differences are explainable, but certainly not always. Often it has not even been a conscious action of an employer to pay men better. However, it is important for employers to be aware that it is normal to treat men and women according to the principle of equal pay. That's fair. That is why the PvdA Group is very pleased that Mrs Yücel has taken the initiative with her proposal to raise awareness of equal pay and to give it a role and thereby strengthen it. But we, too, have a number of questions for the author. Can it explain why it has chosen not to include organisations that only have staff representation in the proposal? Can it justify the need for the initiative with up-to-date figures? Can the applicant explain why the proposed amendment to the right of assent has added value compared to the existing procedures to address remuneration inequality? Furthermore, the PvdA considers it important to know why it is precisely the company's provision of information to the works council on the remuneration relationships between men and women that is of added value to combat this inequality. I would also like to know whether the applicant can indicate what the greater solution should be in terms of unequal pay, which is referred to at the end of the introduction of the explanatory memorandum. It states that the applicant is aware that this proposal only contributes to the promotion of equal pay. What steps does she have in mind to go further in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	I didn't think the Labour Party would be done with her input so soon. Hence my late reaction. The Labour Party indicates that pay differences are unacceptable. Mrs Tanamal then mentioned a number of other causes in her introduction. For example, she said that there have been fights for economic independence since the second wave and that this is very important for the Labour Party. But what is the Labour Party doing, for example, to strengthen the position of single women, who are not economically independent? Is it not precisely this cabinet that causes this economic situation to deteriorate? I mention home care where wage dumping is the order of the day. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	In her own term, Mrs Siderius mentioned a number of important points, which of course also have to do with this. I also understand why she says this affects people's lives. I agree with her on some points, but her question was above all how Mrs Yücel will incorporate this broader approach in her proposal. I'd like to leave that with Mrs. Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	This is a debate and Mrs Tanamal is here on behalf of the Labour Party. It seems to me right that she should simply answer my question as to what the Labour Party is going to do about all those things that I mentioned in my first term. I think the Labour Party is still in the cabinet. Today, there is also a Minister of the Labour Party. Women's opportunities in the labour market and in education are only getting worse. Surely the Labour Party can't afford that? Let me put it this way. What will the PvdA Group propose to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	A large number of measures have already been taken. I am thinking, for example, of the Labour and Care Act, in which I myself was involved. A large number of initiatives have also been taken to support women in reconciling work with other matters. This has increased their chances of getting a job. Think also of the flexible leave, which Mrs Voortman has mentioned, and of all the improvements in childcare. Those are all things that have to do with this. I insist that Mrs Siderius' question was above all what Mrs Yücel is going to do with her legislative proposal in order to cover this much wider than just equal pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. Lonelyness between men and women is an injustice, and we all have to tackle that injustice. I see mostly female colleagues in the Chamber today. Mr Heerma and I may be of a different gender, but that inequality must be our responsibility, men, to ensure that this wage inequality between men and women is addressed. This injustice in the labour market goes beyond the pay gap between men and women. It's wider. That is why today I am keeping a broader story to deal with this inequality in the labour market at once. In the early 1960s many migrant workers came to our country. Young men from countries such as Spain, Italy, Morocco and Turkey were particularly given the opportunity to work here. They were needed to help rebuild our country, to fill the gaps in the labour market and to do work for which people could not be found. The sweat of these people then fell on the quays of the Rotterdam harbour, at the bottom of the coal mines in my beautiful Limburg, on the platforms of our train and bus stations and on the floors of our factories and warehouses. A lot has happened since then. People who initially were to leave were allowed to stay. They made the choice to become Dutch, to build their future in this country, to claim their place in the country where their sweat has fallen and to bring their families to their new country. After this, a long period of habitation, adaptation and struggle for equality arose, because these people had to ask themselves many questions. How do you provide work and shelter for your family? How do you know the language and customs of a country? How do you use your rights? How do you get political influence in our new country? We are now decades away. Groups of people who originally came as guests have now become hosts. The children of the people who worked very hard in our factories and with their sweat built up this country have now become MPs, mayors and even President of the House of Representatives. In this Parliament it was once decided to have groups of people from other countries brought to the Netherlands. In 2016, the descendants of these people in that same parliament talk about the future of our country. But in spite of those parliamentarians, the mayors and the President of the House of Representatives, we are not here yet. Because on the basis of the same country where the sweat of their ancestors has fallen, almost 60% of Moroccan-Dutch and 50% of Turkish-Dutch people feel discriminated against in public. Unfortunately, the proportion of people with a migrant background in the top of the business world is here, unfortunately, also for the VVD, 1% to 2%, while these groups account for about 10% of the population. People with a migrant background have a 50% less chance of being invited to a job interview than people without a migrant background, while they are born and raised here, know the language and have the training. And then the VVD says: we should have given an interview today in the Dragonfly. Despite progress, there is still too much injustice and too much inequality, including in the area of wages. Ethnic minorities appear to earn less on average. This brings me back to Mr Yücel's bill, a proposal to reduce pay inequality between men and women. That wage inequality cannot and must be addressed. Unfortunately, there is this inequality that needs to be addressed. In business, women earn 8% less than men with equal characteristics. The time that sex is a conscious or unconscious consideration of rewards must be over. For equal work, equal pay should simply be equal. DENK therefore also believes that more awareness should be given to companies, that policies should be developed by companies, that they should be communicated transparently and that works councils should be given a controlling role in this. But DENK also believes that the government should set an example, because unfortunately women are still paid 4% less. Where the bill is rightly aimed at gender pay inequality, DENK wants to go through. DENK wants to tackle more injustices. My first question to Mrs Yücel is: why is her law only aimed at achieving equal pay between men and women? Should companies not have a policy of equal pay for all equals? Would Mrs Yücel be prepared to amend Article IA of her law in this way? I have already prepared a number of amendments. They are now in the Legislative Office. As I have just said, there is still too much injustice towards people with a migrant background. People with a migrant background are not only discriminated against when they are interviewed, not only discriminated against by politics, but not only discriminated against when they are seeking an internship. Unfortunately, people with a migrant background also receive less pay in the labour market. Moroccan-Dutch men, taking into account personal characteristics, have an income deficit of 16%. For Turkish Dutch this is 12%. In Surinamese Dutch this is 13%. We are talking about people who are born and raised here and who have the training, and equal opportunities. European research shows that in the group of countries where the Netherlands belongs in a European context, immigrants' wages are on average 4% lower, even if job and personal characteristics are taken into account. My second question is why this injustice has not been incorporated into its law. It is right to make a point of women's pay inequality, but it simply leaves the people with a migrant background where inequality is even greater. Imagine being a woman in the labour market and therefore earning less, but on top of that you are still of migrant origin. You're gonna get double-crossed, aren't you? Why can we not tackle this double injustice at once instead of excluding a group with this proposal? Different identities affect each other. It's called interculturality. Research from 2012 showed that migrant women received 0.6% less wages because they are migrants and 2.6% less wages because they are women. It doesn't have to be discrimination in all cases. What is the initiative proposal doing about this double disadvantage? Should we not raise awareness in this area and bring in more control? Or are the people with a migrant background not electoralally important enough for the PvdA anymore? Does the PvdA leave the people with a migrant background? Doesn't the PvdA stand up for this group anymore? Or does Mrs Yücel need the support of the right-wing parties and she thinks: if I make another proposal, I will not make it? I'm rounding up. For DENK, it is clear: no more pay gap between men and women, tackling wage inequality, no more pay gap between people with and without migrant backgrounds, but an equal and just labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	This brings us to the end of the first term of office towards the initiator. The answer will be given at a later date. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. and then proceed with the work.
