ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber. I call Mr Schrijver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am speaking in the capacity of chairman of the permanent Chambers Committee BDO and I am pleased to do so on behalf of the members of the groups of the VVD, the CDA, the SP, D66, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion, 50PLUS, the PvdD, the OSF and also the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. 70 years after the establishment of the post-war criminal tribunals in Nuremberg and Tokyo, the crime of aggression, then referred to as the crime against peace, seems to finally succeed as a universal crime. This affects the present legislative proposals on major issues of war and peace, of trial and punishment. The legislative proposals are intended to approve the additions to the Convention on the basis of which the International Criminal Court established in The Hague is based. That is the Statute of Rome, and its implementation in our International Crimes Act, also called the SMO, and the National Law on Dutch Entertainment. These are some additions to the concept of war crimes, such as the prohibition of the deliberate use of dumdum bullets. These are bullets that become larger or flatter when entered the human body, causing immense human suffering and pain; more than military need. However, the legislative proposals mainly concern the definition of the offence of aggression and the conditions for the exercise of jurisdiction over this crime by the Criminal Court. The International Criminal Court can prosecute and prosecute four serious crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression. When the Statute was drawn up in 1998, the offence of aggression was also included, but the definition of the offence and the conditions for the exercise of jurisdiction by the Criminal Court were not even mentioned in the 1990s, as in the previous 50s. For this reason, as of its entry into force in 2002, the International Criminal Court had only a "sleeping jurisdiction" over the crime of aggression. At the 2010 Review Conference of the Statute in Kampala, overall agreement was reached on the crime of aggression. This was ultimately done by consensus. Internationally, this is an important breakthrough. With this, the Rome Statute will soon be complete and the Criminal Court will soon also acquire effective jurisdiction over what the Nuremberg Tribunal referred to as the "Supreme International Crime." The subject has a long history. With a ban on dumdum and similar bullets, the international community has been operating since the first Hague Peace Conference in 1899, if not since the creation of the Red Cross in 1864. Similarly, the attempts to curb the aggressive war go back to the Hague peace conferences. For this reason, the political groups on whose behalf I may speak regard the establishment of an agreement on the definition of the crime of aggression as a historic milestone in international cooperation aimed at combating impunity for aggression and serious international crimes and as an important contribution to the enforcement of the international legal order. On behalf of the members of these groups, I would like to express our appreciation for the constructive role played by successive Cabinets in reaching this agreement. We note that, in the definition of aggression, the elements of aggression, offender and act of aggression are clearly distinguishable. There are also such thresholds that less serious skirmishes, such as border incidents, cannot be branded internationally as acts of aggression. We have also noted with the Government, in a detailed and thorough written consultation in the First Chamber, that the high threshold clause of 'unmistakable violation of the Charter of the United Nations' means that participation in international crisis management operations, including humanitarian interventions, falls outside the scope of the description of aggression. Furthermore, jurisdiction cannot be exercised retroactively. This responds to the doubts that have arisen about possible repercussions in participating in international crisis management operations. All in all, this does not mean that persecution and trial of aggression can take place quickly, although that is ultimately up to the prosecutor and the Criminal Court itself. The members of the political groups on whose behalf I am speaking have noted with appreciation the fact that the Netherlands will not use the so-called opt-out declaration, so that in certain cases the International Criminal Court would not have jurisdiction over the offence of aggression. As regards the jurisdiction to be exercised by the Netherlands in relation to the offence of aggression, these members recognise themselves in the detailed definition of jurisdiction and the principles of territoriality and nationality, both the active and passive nationality principles. They quite rightly consider this to be true given the gravity of the crime of aggression, which, as has been said by the Nuremberg Tribunal, has been referred to as a'supreme international crime'. These members also support the chosen line of action to ensure that the planned criminalisation of the crime of aggression in the SMO does not take effect until the International Criminal Court has the right to exercise effective jurisdiction in this matter. This could be the case at best in 2017, after the necessary 30 ratifications and even after a so-called activation decision of the States Parties to the Rome Statute. There are 124 of them now. I have just recalled that 30 ratifications are required to bring the Kampala amendments into force. The counter is now at 29. Partly for this reason, the political groups on whose behalf I may speak welcome the fact that the two legislative proposals are now before us and that the Netherlands, by adopting them, can contribute to strengthening the role of the Criminal Court as envisaged in 1998, and thereby to promoting the international legal order and promoting the role of The Hague as a city of Peace and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. The present bill provides for an extension of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. This concerns war crimes in the event of a non-international armed conflict and in particular the definition of the crime of aggression. The PvdA committee chairman was so lyrical about the fact that agreement had been reached that he was eager to celebrate this in plenary, by making a joint statement on behalf of our committee. A joint statement to celebrate that the Netherlands gives even more sovereignty, this time not to Brussels, but to the International Criminal Court. The parties present agreed to the proposal, with the exception of the PVV, which is not very warm for this elite propaganda party. Several other countries must also have been uncomfortable, since agreement on the crime of aggression has a long history of negotiations, the start of which is at the Nuremberg Tribunal in 1946. Finally, agreement was reached in the specially established informal working group on the definition of the crime of aggression. This working group has always had varying compositions. It seems that there have been contracting parties and non-contracting parties present. Those who were present when they were present shall not be released. The decision-making process is unclear. It is noteworthy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that he does not have the full list of countries participating in the various meetings. Doesn't it seem obvious that there's been an administration run somewhere? The local pool club has a better administration. The definition of aggression, which was adopted by consensus by the working party, was therefore no longer under discussion at the review conference in Kampala, which in turn accepted it by consensus, at the same time as the change in the definition of war crimes in the event of a non-international armed conflict. The decision-making process is unclear and far from transparent. Who was before, who had any reservations, who was silent, who was extra massaged? Some changes to the elements of crime have also been approved. These elements determine, among other things, whether there is aggression. These changes can be made just like that, outside the parliaments. This is because these elements do not have a binding status for the Criminal Court, so that one can deviate from these elements or apply others. In the meantime, however, they do influence the judgment of the Court of Justice on our citizens. This method may lead to arbitrariness, resulting in difference in judgment in equal cases. This is legal inequality and it is contrary to the principle of equality. But the Secretary of State isn't awake for the night. He says he has confidence in the appropriate use of these instruments by the Criminal Court and expects that the case law of the Criminal Court on the crime of aggression to be developed will be properly taken into account in subsequent court proceedings. These are just assumptions. It may be that this instrument is being used politically. In addition, as regards the act of aggression, which can only concern a country, the Criminal Court can reach its own judgment, without being hindered by the findings of the Security Council. The same applies to national courts exercising jurisdiction over the offence of aggression. If it is considered that a country has committed an act of aggression, the nationals of that country may be prosecuted, provided that the State concerned has accepted the jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, which is the case when agreeing to this bill. The result is that Dutch people can be prosecuted, but not Islamic State fighters, because they are nationals of a non-recognised state and the crime is linked aggression to the state of action. What about the stateless and, for example, the Palestinian refugees living in the Palestinian territories? Can they be prosecuted for the crime of aggression? I'd like a response from the Minister. The crime of aggression can be committed by a person in charge of political or military action by a state. It has been proposed within the working group to add economic action to this. However, there was little support for this. What countries did not want to support this will not be announced. Apparently, they have an interest in having free hands to aggressively acquire raw materials, food and labour. By assigning more and more legal powers to the Criminal Court, governments can sit back satisfied and leave judgment to this international organisation. The Criminal Court provides a solution in sensitive cases. Governments can hide behind the Criminal Court and let this do the dirty work. It is hard to follow what is or is not allowed because of the abuse of international regulations. The Foreign Minister says that he considers the detection, prosecution and trial of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity to be very important. In the meantime, however, this government is too cowardly to acknowledge the Armenian genocide, a proven genocide where 1.5 million Armenians have been brutally tortured, raped and murdered by the Turks. The government continues to call this the Armenian issue. It is convenient that no international organisation is currently competent to condemn the Armenian genocide. As long as there is no recognition of this genocide, there will be no consequences for Turkey either. For example, the Armenian genocide cannot disrupt the negotiations for Turkish EU membership and can keep Erdogan a friend, Erdogan who continues to occupy the northern part of Cyprus, not to mention an EU country. Doesn't that look like an act of aggression? I'm rounding up. This bill is a symptom of a ghost play. Powers are being given away, and with these powers more sovereignty is being given away, while the call for sovereignty is increasing. I am afraid that a majority of the parties in this Chamber are not interested and simply agree to this proposal. It will be clear that the PVV Group does not throw sovereignty overboard and will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u4	I see the Minister raise his hand. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two Members of your Chamber, Mr Schrijver and Mrs Faber, who have made comments on the legislative proposals before us. First of all, let me say that the Foreign Minister, Mr Koenders, regrettably cannot attend this debate today, because he is present in New York at the vote in the United Nations on membership of the Netherlands of the Security Council. The legislative proposals we are discussing today provide for the adoption and implementation of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court accepted in Kampala in Uganda on 10 and 11 June 2010. I had prepared a glowing introduction, indicating that this is an important step forward in international law, but I cannot say better than Mr Schrijver who has just done in his contribution, so I have deleted my introduction. I note, however, that these amendments were adopted by consensus after intensive negotiations. I would like to stress the point made by Mr Schrijver that they represent an historic milestone in the fight against impunity and the strengthening of the international legal order. As Members know, the Netherlands played an active role in the drafting of the amendments on crime aggression at the time. Ratification of these amendments confirms the Dutch position as a supporter of the first hour of the International Criminal Court and as a host country, with The Hague as the world's legal capital, as the Mayor of The Hague regularly tells me. The government is therefore very grateful to this Chamber for the speed with which these legislative proposals have been dealt with. This has brought much closer to the speedy ratification of the amendments in the Netherlands. The ratifications are progressing steadily. Today's good news is that 30 ratifications have been achieved. This means that we can take the next steps to further implement the amendments. At the same time, we are also changing the International Crimes Act with an extension of the definition of war crimes in the event of a non-international armed conflict and, of course, the criminalisation of aggression in our Dutch law. It is also proposed to amend the jurisdictional regime of the International Crimes Act, especially as regards crimes committed against Dutch victims and crimes committed by foreigners who have a permanent residence or residence in the Netherlands. I have to say that in the debate in the Lower House the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I myself have promised that we would inform the States-General of the intention to bring into force the national criminalisation of the crime aggression in the International Crimes Act. That is what we will do. In the meantime, I am convinced that we are taking an important step forward today, precisely on the points for which Mr Schrijver has already drawn attention, not only in terms of international law, but also in particular by ensuring that people do not go unpunished when there are very serious crimes against humanity. Mrs Faber noted that this would give up our sovereignty. I think it would be a good thing if I stressed that the International Criminal Court should be regarded as a provision that is available if its own states do not take action. The starting point of the Dutch law is that everything that has been punishable by the International Criminal Court is also included in Dutch law as a criminal offence. This also applies to aggression, not to people who are not part of a state, Mrs Faber is right. But warriors of ISIS, in order to stay with the example she gave, can be brought before a Dutch judge in any way possible. There is therefore no question of a transfer of sovereignty from the Dutch perspective, for the simple reason that anything the International Criminal Court can do, and if we decide to do so, we can do so as a matter of priority. It would be wise to establish that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u6	May I conclude from this that the government would also take action if the International Criminal Court did not pursue a particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u7	It is the other way around: the International Criminal Court can only take action if a country has decided not to do so. So it's the other way around. The Netherlands is competent to take a very large number of steps and prosecutions in the Netherlands under the International Crimes Act. That's what we do at regular intervals. If we do not do so when there is reason to do so, the International Criminal Court is competent to do so itself. So the International Criminal Court really acts as an overarching safety valve in case state actors fail to take action. For the Netherlands, therefore, as long as we do it ourselves, we have priority. Then that whole International Criminal Court won't be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u8	But then you can also conclude that we can just sit back and hope that the International Criminal Court will prosecute. Or we could just meet with the International Criminal Court that will prosecute it. Of course, it's an easy way to act in this way. I raised the Armenian genocide. At the moment, there is no international organisation that can prosecute the Armenian genocide, let alone punish it. The Netherlands does choose not to recognise them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u9	As Minister for Security and Justice, I will not go into the discussion on what, as Mrs Faber said, is generally referred to as the 'Armenian issue'. The question of how to look at it, I would like to leave it to others in the cabinet. I note, however, that the starting point of Dutch law is that when we learn of a fact that is punishable under Dutch law, under the International Crimes Act, there is in itself no obstacle for the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office to bring criminal proceedings against it. I think that's what we want. If we do not, the International Criminal Court will then act as an additional opportunity to take action vis-à-vis the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mrs Faber's question. She wants to know whether stateless or Palestinians can be prosecuted for the crime of aggression. For persecution as Mrs Faber means, an act of aggression by a state decided upon by political and military leaders is required. This means that stateless people cannot be prosecuted for aggression, but they can be prosecuted for other international crimes, as I said when it came to ISIS fighters. That can really happen in a lot of good ways. I would like to thank Mr Schrijver for his comments and Mrs Faber for her comments and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u10	Can the Minister answer the question whether Palestinians living in the Palestinian territories can be prosecuted for the crime of aggression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u11	That is not possible because, as Mrs Faber knows, Palestine is not recognised by the Netherlands as a state. For this reason, as I have just said, the requirement that it should be an act of aggression by a state decided by political and military leaders is not met. In the case of Palestine, it is not an act of a state. Finally, I would like to thank the Members of this Chamber very warmly for the support that Mr Koenders and I have had for these amendments and therefore for the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u12	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I am not giving the floor to Mr Schrijver, who does not need a second term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. All I want to do is thank the Minister for his answer to the questions and for his way to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you. I suppose the Minister doesn't need a second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u15	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the legislative proposals? That is the case; the PVV demands a vote. I propose that next Tuesday we vote on the legislative proposals, both the 33865 and 33866.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-eerstekamer-5.u16	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Finance.
