ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for having found time for a brief debate. The debate may be brief, but it is no less important. It is important that the EU Directive 2013/48/EU is implemented in Dutch legislation. I'm sure the SP Group is behind this. However, I would like to ask a number of questions about the way in which the implementation is shaped in Dutch legislation. I would like to discuss three issues with the Minister today. The first is the content of the hearing aid, the second is the recovery of the costs of the hearing aid and the third is the legal aid of minors. The first subject I would like to discuss with the Minister is the content of the Honorary Assistance. Current and intended practice is that the lawyer is allowed to ask questions before and after the police interview. The text does not explain whether this concerns questions to the defendant, the detective or both. In my opinion, this means that questions can be asked to the detective and the suspect. It may be important in the interests of truth finding and efficient litigation that the lawyer also asks questions to the defendant during the police interrogation. After all, this may also enable exculpatory evidence to be collected at an early stage, allowing criminal cases where there is insufficient evidence to be dismissed by the D.A. in the ZSM assessment. This is in line with the intention of revising the Code of Criminal Procedure, which places more emphasis on the investigation phase. This would prevent unnecessary interrogation with the judge commissioner. It prevents unnecessary claims for compensation for unfair deprivation of liberty which the taxpayer must bring to bear. This is also in line with the EU directive that is being implemented with this bill. Article 3 (3) (b) of the Directive provides that the counsellor may participate effectively in the questioning of the defendant. Does the Minister agree with me that on the basis of the current bill, following the detective's questions in the interview, the lawyer can ask the defendant his questions, so that the questions and the answers are included in the interrogation report? I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. The second subject I would like to discuss with the Minister is the story of the costs of hearing aid. This legislative proposal provides that the costs of legal aid relating to the appointment of a counsellor for the defendant whose freedom is denied may be recovered from him after an irrevocable conviction if he is sufficiently capable. I should like to know from the Minister where and in what way he intends to work on this. Has a cost-benefit analysis been made of this? If so, we would like to know about this. Or would the Minister undertake to forward it to us? We would also like to know whether research has already been carried out into the impact of this proposal on the defendant's re-socialisation process. If so, can the Minister tell us what the results have been? If not, does the Minister intend to carry out this investigation? The third and final issue I would like to discuss with the Minister is the legal assistance of minors. The bill means that a minor will no longer have the right to an addition of a lawyer and that he or she will then have to pay his or her own lawyer if the Public Prosecutor wants to impose a community service of 32 hours or less. The border is now at 20 hours. These are minors who spent hours alone in a police cell and who are asked in the opening of the cell door whether they agree to a community service of, for example, 32 hours in order to prevent further criminal proceedings. They're tired and want to go home. It is also a matter of minors who are invited to a public service hearing and are asked whether they want to agree to a public service offer of 32 hours. Minors cannot see the consequences of their consent and cannot, without having seen the file, assess whether there is sufficient evidence in the file. Does the Minister agree with me that a minor here should have the right to a lawyer's assistance in assessing whether he should agree to this offer of community service and whether he should perhaps oppose the prescribed service, at least in the event of inability to do so? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u3	I understand that there is something wrong with the sound recording of the sitting and therefore suspends the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposals before us have already been dealt with fairly extensively, so I limit my contribution to the legislative proposal implementing the directive on access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings. As a result of this directive, not only minor but also adult suspects will be entitled to legal aid during police interviews. My group welcomes this active support of the suspect at an early stage of the criminal proceedings, and believes that this support also serves the progress of the investigation and the importance of the truth finding. Somehow, the criminal justice chain has a difficult relationship with the interrogation assistance. For half a century there has been a debate on whether the right to assistance by a lawyer also applies to the police questioning. Spranken recently concluded in the Dutch Juristenblad that this long duration is mainly caused by the strength measurement between inquisitory and accumulative principles. Although the influence of detectives, but also repulsive against the financial consequences of the introduction of interrogation assistance, has been able to stop for a long time, judicial errors have led to the door being opened to lawyers during the hearing. But the main incentive has of course been the case law of the ECHR. Following numerous judgments of the Court, which also condemned the Netherlands, the Hoge Raad decided to set the State an ultimatum to apply the standards of the case law of the Court. Since that ultimatum, March 1st 2016, suspects have the right to an attorney during interrogation. The discussions have not yet been resolved. A point of dispute is the question of what that lawyer may or may not do during the interrogation. Another point of dispute concerns the remuneration of that lawyer: what is a reasonable remuneration for the assistance? I shall dwell briefly on both points. According to the OM policy letter governing interrogation assistance since 1 March, the activities of the counsellor are mainly limited to before and after the hearing. During the interrogation, he may only make the interviewing official aware that the defendant does not understand a question as to whether undue pressure is being exerted, or that continuation of the interview is not justified. And he may at least ask for an interrogation at least once. The question is whether these rules only implement the case law of the ECHR, or also of the EU Directive. In December of last year, the Supreme Court had ordered that the directive be implemented, in order to prevent further convictions by the ECHR and to promote legal certainty. However, in its decision on the question referred for a preliminary ruling last September, the Hoge Raad did not examine the OM rules on the basis of that directive, but only on the basis of the case law of the ECHR. Explicitly, the Supreme Court states that an unbiased right to interrogation assistance cannot be based on the Directive, as the implementation period had not yet expired in September. The High Court then concludes that neither Article 6 of the ECHR nor any other rule of law currently in force implies that a counsellor should be able to participate actively in the hearing, as long as restrictions do not make the right of interrogation illusory. Does the Minister share the conclusion that the High Council has not reviewed the policy letter in the light of the directive? This bill is intended to incorporate the standards that will apply to the Netherlands from 27 November into our laws and regulations. And then there is the pressing question of whether the directive offers more protection and guarantees than the ECHR. The Charter is clear on this. Article 52 (3) provides that Union law may provide more protection than the ECHR. This directive does that. The provisions of the Directive are at least in line with the Charter and the ECHR, but build on this through further and more detailed legislation. Recitals 6 and 7 explicitly refer to further development and build on the minimum standards of the ECHR. During the negotiations on the proposal for a directive, the Minister acknowledged that he was heading towards the Chamber and was somewhat displeased. He wrote that the Commission underestimated how far the Directive went beyond the ECHR. However, in the reply, the Minister states that the level of protection is no wider than the case law of the ECHR, and he quotes recital 53. However, that recital only obliges Member States to comply with the provisions of the Directive the ECHR case-law. However, the directive contains more detailed provisions. The President of the Court of First Instance, who referred the question to the Hoge Raad, considers that Article 14 of the Directive provides that the Directive does not go further. However, this Article contains a non-regression clause prohibiting Member States from using the Directive to limit or derogate from European rights or existing national rules, if they provide a higher level of protection. This clause makes it clear that the directive must never lead to a lowering of standards. But I'm going to raise it. Does the Minister recognize this? I have been thinking about this for so long because my group has the impression that the meaning of the directive is likely to be limited to the setting of standards that we have already been bound by. In other words, nothing new under the sun. This would only mean that the Directive would have the function of making Member States better aware of these obligations, now also by the Commission, and that the Court of Justice would also have the power to interpret them. But that is, in our group's view, a misconception, which should not take root in Dutch legal practice. We have a new instrument, and the principle of Union law requires full compliance with the obligations. The aim of the Directive is to strengthen mutual trust between Member States in order to promote criminal cooperation within the Union. According to the Directive, this requires further development of existing safeguards. Article 3 (1) of the Directive requires Member States to give suspects access to a counsellor in such a way that they can effectively exercise their right of defence. The third paragraph further elaborates this right of access, which provides for Member States to ensure that the counsellor is present at the hearing and can actually participate in it. Such participation may be regulated by national procedures, but only in so far as they do not affect the effective participation and the essence of the right to interrogation assistance. In recital 25, the Directive explains what such active participation should consist of, namely making statements, asking questions and questions. This is not an exhaustive list, but it makes it clear that this active participation really needs to be implemented. The Minister has taken this into account by stating that "only" is a recital in the preamble, but, as the Minister knows, the Court of Justice often takes the recital as the starting point in explaining the provisions of a directive. And the Court will always assess whether the objective is not undermined by national rules. Here is the purpose of the Directive, the further development of criminal safeguards, and the purpose of the provision itself, the effective exercise of the right of defence through the active participation of the counsellor in the hearing. It is up to the Minister to adopt its own rules in accordance with Union law and to the judge to review those rules through the eyes of the Court. If in doubt, the Supreme Court will not have the last word, but the Court of Justice will have the last word. A reply to a question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Hoge Raad can never replace the answer to a question referred for a preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice. I trust the Minister shares this view. If we look now at the interpretation of that law by the legislator, it is first of all striking that the law does not say much about it, and that the policy letter of the prosecutor determines how the right to interrogation assistance is fulfilled. Is this a proper implementation of Union rules? Should they not be included in generally binding rules, so that everyone is aware of them and it promotes legal certainty? If we look at the content, we can see that active participation is being strictly restricted. In this way, can there still be an interpretation of the role of the defence by the lawyer and of actual legal aid? Of course, the interviewing officer will remain in charge of the interview, and the interviewing assistance does not make it possible for equal parties to be present. But if a counselor really wants to be of use to his client, if he wants to be able to actively support him, he will have to act and intervene as much as possible at his own discretion and on the basis of his professionalism. The more his role is laid down in rules, and in particular in the restrictive sense, the more tension this can create with the importance of bringing the professional role of the lawyer to justice. Does the Minister recognise this and, if so, how does he intend to resolve it? Of course, the granting of certain possibilities before and after the hearing can replace or compensate for the need for intervention during the interview. Only during the interrogation can he inform the suspect or the interviewing official of certain matters, and ensure that certain matters are dealt with in more detail and that the process is adjusted where necessary. Is it not important that there should at least be sufficient flexibility during the interviews, so that each of his own craftsmanship has the opportunity to assess, on the one hand, where the counsellor needs space and, on the other hand, to assess where the order of proceedings requires it to be further restricted? It is very difficult to impose this in advance in a blueprint. Every interrogation situation requires a different assessment and direction. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister is quite sure that the restrictions he now imposes on the counsellor are well related to the obligations of the directive. My group feels differently about this, and I fear that we are not going to agree today. That is why I would also like to focus on the future, and I would like to know from the Minister whether he is prepared to exercise sufficient flexibility in practice and, at the same time, to monitor closely, together with the legal profession, or whether the objective of active participation in the hearing is adequately justified. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then there's the question of funding. The financial consequences of interrogation assistance have always been part of the government's opposition to properly arranging interrogation assistance. But now that the directive is in place, there is no longer any policy choice: we need to get it in order. If the right to interrogation assistance cannot be adequately fulfilled, because the funding is inadequate, then the government undermines the useful effect of the Directive. So it is really important to ensure that we fill that out properly. In the run-up to implementation, the Minister has already been pointed out by the profession that the reserved budgets are insufficient to achieve the right to interrogation assistance. The professions insist that the flat-rate compensation system should not be applied, because the number of hours questioned varies enormously. Besides, the lawyer doesn't have anything to send in there. It's up to the police and the D.A. to assess how often and for how long an interrogation takes place. If you want to maintain the flat-rate system, you are actually forced to sit very generously, to prevent the counsel from simply not being able to afford the assistance the defendant is entitled to. The quickscan has produced a report that is not considered representative. Does the Minister understand that? The question is what conclusion this should lead to. My group is very concerned about whether we are sufficiently complying with the directive with the current remuneration we have left: three hours for heavy cases and one and a half hours in all other cases. Is the Minister prepared and willing to carry out a new and thorough investigation, taking into account the criticisms of the Significant method used? My group believes that there is nothing else to be done. I am glad that the Minister is also working on this. The current compensation is on the very tight side. If we go into the implementation phase, we risk undermining the objective of the directive. The Minister does not want to run this risk either, and will therefore also take a positive view of the collection of reliable data, in order to adapt the fees to the necessary level. I hope to get a very clear commitment from the Minister. I would also urge that this be done quickly to ensure that the period of doubt about the proper implementation of the directive is as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u5	We're going to prosecute the bill. I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to thank the Chamber very much for its keenness to deal with this bill. The reason for this is, of course, that the European directive should be implemented on 27 November. We will not achieve that entirely, especially since the legislative proposal leading to implementation is not referendable and the supplementary legislative proposal is referendable, which means that things are running apart anyway. But it is important that we can deal with both legislative proposals today. I would therefore like to thank the Chamber for the speed with which it has done so. Of course, I would also like to thank Mrs Strik and Mrs Wezel for their contribution. After a few general remarks, I am happy to answer their questions. In these legislative proposals, it is very important to distinguish between the right to consultation assistance and the right to interrogation assistance. With consultation assistance, I am referring to the right of suspect to consult a counselor prior to the hearing. By interrogation, I'm referring to the defendant's right to be assisted by counsel during interrogation. The good news, of course, is that the right to interrogation assistance has now been introduced into practice. Many people, but probably not those who have just spoken, might have the impression that the legislative proposals would have less priority. But, of course, nothing is less true. A vigorous examination of these legislative proposals is of great importance because it is necessary to give certainty to the implementation practice and because the additional legislative proposal extends the deadline for the cessation of investigations from six to nine hours, so that the necessary interrogation assistance can also be granted. It simply takes that time. This practical extension, which everyone agrees on, can only take place by means of a legislative amendment. Finally, it is a question of the deadline for implementation. We hope that today's debate and hopefully next week's votes will not lead the Netherlands to face infringement proceedings. As I have already recalled, the right of interrogation has now been introduced into practice as a result of the judgment of the Supreme Court of 22 December last year. According to the ruling of the Hoge Raad, the practice of interrogation assistance was introduced in the Netherlands on 1 March 2016. I would add that this happened with steam and boiling water. This was not an easy task, because, of course, a later deadline was taken into account. This practice is based on the temporary policy rules of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Legal Assistance Board. These policies have created a legal basis for implementing the judgment of the Supreme Court, in anticipation of the entry into force of the draft implementing law. I would also like to point out that, in a number of questions, too, that this temporary policy has not immediately been able to count on everyone's support. For very understandable reasons, I believe, the Dutch Association for Criminal Law attorneys and the Dutch Association for Young Criminal Law attorneys have indicated that they do not agree with the way in which the implementation took place. They then brought interim proceedings against the State against that temporary policy in spring 2016 on the basis of that ruling of the Supreme Court. The judgments of the Supreme Court were based on the fact that both the rules on legal aid and the rules on the organisation of the police hearing, and thus the rules on the role of the lawyer, have passed the judicial test. With regard to the establishment of the police hearing, the appellate court also based itself on the answer by the Hoge Raad to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the appellate court. Mrs Strik says that a judgment of the European Court can also be followed later. That might be possible, but I'm confident in that. This means that the answer by the Supreme Court to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice was based on the draft decision referred to above on the establishment of the police hearing and the role of the counsellor during that hearing. An earlier concept of this decision has already been annexed to the explanatory memorandum of the implementation proposal. The final draft decision was presented to the Advisory Section of the Council of State in October. I aim to ensure that this Decision establishment and order police interrogation will enter into force at the same time as the new formal law. I would now like to continue answering the individual questions. Mrs Wezel asked about the role of the counsellor in the field of interrogation assistance. And can counsel also ask his client questions? I think it is good, also for the Acts, to say here that the rules on police interrogation are the minimum rules. This means that where there is discussion, for example between counsel and detective, the minimum standard is clear. I have already said in the House of Representatives that my own experience, a very limited criminal law experience as a lawyer, was that in situations where the atmosphere is good and the counselor is constructive, then much more possible than was already possible under the law. I have also indicated in the House of Representatives that I do not rule out at all that in practice the competence, role and manner in which the role of the counsellor in that interview is to be different. However, this will be situational and likely to lead to tailor-made work. If a counselor behaves in such a way that as a detective you have to point out the minimum rules, the minimum rules apply. In this respect, it is clear that the basis is laid by the rules and that then in the interview there is also the possibility to deviate from them, but with the detective in a leading role. That is, after all, the questioner who is responsible for the correct way in which the hearing is finally concluded. Does this also mean that the counsel may ask questions to the defendant? The answer is yes, but through the detective, because that's the role the detective himself has. That's the main rule. If the detective decides to deviate from that for practical reasons, he may, but he doesn't have to. I think that's very important for the different roles in such an interrogation. We have all described this in the draft note to the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u7	I hear the minister saying that the detective can state that he doesn't want the lawyer asking questions to the defendant. From the documents I have read, I understand that this is the case with the questions during the interview. Just for the sake of truth, wouldn't it be nice if the lawyer had the opportunity to ask the defendant questions after the hearing? This could lead to truth finding, which could be relevant to the answer to the question of whether a suspect should be detained or sent home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u8	Just so we're clear, the rules state that at the end of the interview, counsel may always ask questions to the defendant through the detective. That's the basic rule, the foundation. If the detective considers it appropriate for the counselor to be given the opportunity to ask questions through him during the interrogation, that is fine as far as I'm concerned, but that is based on the judgment of the detective or the detectives in charge of the interrogation, because the lead rests with the detectives. If they do not wish to allow this, they may, therefore, be allowed to do so under the rules, but they must allow further questions to be put to the defendant at the end of the interview via the detective by the counselor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u10	I come now to Mrs Wezel's question on the measure relating to the recovery of legal aid costs. This issue may not be directly related to both legislative proposals, but it may play a role indirectly. The measure will be developed in the Law on Legal Assistance, which assigns powers to the Legal Assistance Board. The Decision on judicial and criminal data has now been amended and will enter into force at the same time as the law enters into force. There has been no study of the effects on resocialization. Of course, this is also the case, which is quite obvious because, according to the nature of the case, it is a question of strong convicts. The Legal Assistance Board is doing this carefully. I do not therefore see any reason to investigate further the consequences for socialisation, precisely because these are strong convicts. In the explanatory memorandum, the question of what the expected effects are on resocialisation was discussed in detail. It also indicates what the yield will have to be. Let me just say this quickly: the expected revenue is about 2.1 million. Implementation costs are expected to be around 0.2 million; perhaps a little more or a little less. This means that this measure is expected to amount to 1.7 million net. Mrs Wezel also asked about the importance of young people in imposing a criminal order. The Public Prosecutor's Office involves the importance of young people in the consideration of imposing a criminal order. That's been the policy for years. The way in which this consideration is made lies in the designation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, titled: Directive and framework for criminal proceedings for young people and adolescents including measures of punishment Halt. This designation sets out the principles governing the treatment of criminal offences in juveniles and the application of juvenile criminal law. In making this designation, the best interests of the child were, for understandable reasons, a primary consideration. This means that, from a central coordination point, the youth of each region is coordinated and assessed on a daily basis with the police and the Children's Protection Board. More generally, I believe that we agree that juvenile and juvenile criminal proceedings should be of a pedagogical nature, with the general principle of combating recidivism. That is also the starting point as it is. In addition, the Code of Criminal Procedure establishes separate criminal proceedings safeguards aimed at the special approach of the juvenile during the criminal trial. This approach is developed in detail in that designation for the Public Prosecutor's Office. There is a balanced approach, with no ill-thought-out adoption of a criminal order against young suspects. It goes without saying that a minor always has the right to be assisted by his parents or by a legal representative. The creation of a threshold, to which Mrs Wezel referred and which has always been there, also fits in with the existing system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u11	What is the government's view that legal aid for minors should be withdrawn, so that legal aid is no longer granted at 20 hours but even at 32 hours? What is the government's idea behind that? The Minister says that it is intended to have a pedagogical effect, but does it not mean that children with parents can pay legal aid and children without parents who can pay legal aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u12	No, at least I'm not worried about that. Of course, the overall policy balance is always that there must be legal aid for those who need it. In many cases, of course, the way in which criminal offences or offences are dealt with will not lead at all to a discussion of a lawyer. Let's be real. In many cases, the vast majority, there is no need for such counsel. Then there is simply tailor-made work and, whether through parents or through a Halt procedure, a proper solution is found for the offence that has taken place. Then, if it is a very serious crime, legal aid is properly available, because we believe that this is also necessary in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u13	The next item is community service of 32 hours and less. That actually applies to all matters. Halt's the lead. There's no lawyer involved in that either. But now the Minister is not giving legal aid for more than 20 hours of community service. What is the government's idea behind this? The Minister is calling Halt, but that is not at all the issue. This is a serious criminal offence, which is 32 hours' service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u14	It's just like I said. It is precisely in this context that we have been looking at: for what facts is a community service of 32 hours imposed, for example, and is there such a serious situation that it is appropriate for the government to finance a counsellor? I'm just gonna take a look at the threshold there was. In case of a fine, the addition of a lawyer was possible with a fine above €115. This will be €200 in the new system. That's $85 difference. I think we all agree that if a fine is a substantial amount of €200 or more, it is appropriate to have a lawyer added. That same discussion also took place in community service. It has now been established that it will be 32 o'clock. This means that of the lesser offences that are dealt with, i.e. underneath, the assessment is that there is no need for an add-on counselor. For the heavier crimes, over 32 hours, that's the case. That fits exactly into the policy we have: there is no need for a lawyer to be added to minor matters and for heavier ones to be sure. That is the starting point, also in the interests of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u15	Finally, Mrs Wezel, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u16	This is my last question. The D.A. has clearly ruled against this, just like the lawyers. The Minister says it's a minor crime, but it's really all about crimes. It concerns virtually all the issues that young people are involved in. On what does the Minister base that this is in the best interest of the minor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u17	I don't think Mrs. Wezel and I are gonna agree. Mrs Wezel actually says that under all circumstances you should have an additional counselor for all minors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u18	I'm not saying that. It's between 20 and 32 hours. Why this austerity measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u19	Because we've looked at the starting point. When is a crime so serious that it is necessary for an additional lawyer to be present? That is the starting point. Mrs Wezel thinks it should be a little lower, but you can say with the same ease that it should be a little higher. There's always a line. I understand very well that Mrs Wezel says that you can discuss that border. That's what we're doing here. I think the way it's designed now is pretty good. And pay attention: minors always have the right to be assisted by their parents or their legal representative. So they're not alone. We need to take away the image that they're standing there on their own. Of course, that is not the case. They can always be properly assisted in their defence by their parents or their legal representative. I come to Mrs Strik's questions. I congratulate Mrs Strik on the amount of questions she has asked, but also on the depth of them, which gives me the feeling that I have been invited to an examination of European law. Mrs. Strik does that a lot. I hope, therefore, that I will give an adequate answer to all these questions, some of which have not been discussed before. At least I'm gonna do my best. Ms Strik spoke about the discussion that is taking place with the Dutch order of lawyers about the investigation of Significant. Significant, I say for the Acts, is the investigating agency which has examined whether the points I have given to the interview assistance are adequate. That's what we agreed on two things. First of all, we agreed that we know that we did the quickscan and the investigation of Significant while there was only very limited evidence, limited evidence. That also means that I have said that I want it to continue. That is a point I think is right, and I think that the order has greatly appreciated that I did not say: we now have the impression that it is okay, so it is okay. Instead, we said: no, this really requires careful monitoring, so it will take place. Then there was a discussion from the Dutch order of lawyers, who felt that Significant's investigation was not proper. Then I asked the WODC to report on that. The WODC has also involved the counteranalysis made by the Order. It then said that the conclusions drawn by Significant were sufficiently substantiated and scientifically justified. The monitor has started and the lawyer is represented. Of course, the WODC also says that it is wise to have more material. That means the WODC also supports that we're going to do the monitor. That monitor has started and the lawyer is represented on the advisory committee of the research set up by the WODC. I would also like to say here that I very much appreciate that the Dutch order of lawyers, despite its opposition to the initial investigation, is prepared to watch with the monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u20	I wonder how you can investigate how many hours the counsellor has to take part in interviews in order to assess whether the funding is sufficient, if the counsellors are currently limited in their participation because they are underpaid. Do you understand? I can also imagine that you would decide to reimburse the actual costs incurred during the monitor, so that lawyers are not prevented from actually participating if necessary. On this basis, the standard fee can be considered. How do you take out the polluting element of the currently perhaps too high threshold to participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u21	It is perhaps a good thing that, in this context, I should also mention that, because of the fragility of the discussion, in the first few weeks after 1 March of this year I was informed whether everything was going as it should. In particular, it was a question of whether lawyers were walking out halfway through the interviews. That is also Mrs Strik's concern. That didn't turn out to be true. However, it has been found that it is difficult to get lawyers and sometimes they come late and wait a long time, leaving some clients unnecessarily in insurance. That's annoying. Therefore, videoconferencing is also used in the context of consultation assistance, in order to minimise that risk. That is precisely where this can have an adverse effect on the interest of the client himself. The investigation shows the following. We have a flat-rate system. There is no other system. We don't have an hour billing system. We have always had a flat-rate system and we keep it as far as I am concerned. The Wolfsen Committee has also concluded that this is the best system available, and I agree with that. That flat-rate system means that sometimes you get too little for an interrogation and sometimes too much. This has been examined by Significant, which has concluded that there are indeed on average decent fees. So sometimes it's a little too much and sometimes it's a little too little. So we don't expect lawyers to sit around any longer to get their entire fee paid. That's their advantage. At the same time, we do expect lawyers to stay in an interrogation that takes longer than they get paid for. That is what is happening in practice. So it's no concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u22	How can you be so sure that in the selection that lawyers are supposed to make right now, what interrogation am I going to sit down with? The finance doesn't play a role? Perhaps they will be less involved in interrogation than if there were no financial threshold. For example, there are very long or days of interrogation, or interrogation of vulnerable suspects where you really need to be present and where lawyers are really going to turn in if they really want to provide that full assistance and this is not compensated by sufficient other interrogations. You might get a distorted image if you don't see now that they're not participating enough and that it would be necessary for them to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u23	But that is not the experience at all. The experience of both the state's attorney's office and the police is that they're just there. The work is just done. Significant's been looking into that. The WODC has examined whether the analysis is correct and whether it is scientifically sufficiently substantiated. The answer to these questions is yes, even if there is limited information. I'll keep monitoring. Mrs Strik and I are convinced together that if the order of lawyers could actually argue that something is going wrong here, he is not doing so now, by the way. But there's just no problem. We should be very happy about that, too. It has led to the proper assistance of suspects since 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u24	Does this bring in the Minister's lawyers to write for hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u25	I have been a lawyer myself for a long time and I have discovered that lawyers do not need any appeal from the Minister of Security and Justice to write hours. It's just in the blood. Do you know the joke of the lawyer at the heavenly gate, chairman? Peter says to the lawyer, "You are 65 years old and you died for that reason." The lawyer says, "I'm not 65 at all, I'm 35." "Oh," says Peter, "then we've probably added your hours together." I don't know if this is the first attorney's joke in the Acts of the First Chamber, but it looks good in it now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u26	If the lawyers come in with the hours, you're gonna take a look at that? Are you going to do something with that and include it in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u27	I think the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre needs a little more evidence than just the lawyers' written hours. The monitoring we are doing, with the Dutch order of lawyers in the advisory committee, as I said earlier, will take place on a scientifically sound basis. It is indeed being examined and tested whether the experiences, such as those so far, are in order and whether they remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u28	On what time do you expect that monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u29	It's a permanent monitor. It is therefore carried out in a series of times. At the end of next year we expect the first results, but in the meantime, of course, we will certainly hear some of them. My contacts with the order of lawyers are very close, also on this point. Mrs Strik had asked a question about the proceeds. I have already answered this in response to Mrs Wezel. Mrs Strik was concerned about whether the possibility of a cost story limits the possibility that the defendant would waive assistance from a designated counsel. In the current situation, sufficient strong suspects who have not been taken into custody and who have been assisted by a counsellor should pay for themselves. These suspects therefore stand for a similar consideration in the current system. It must, of course, be clear to the defendant if he is to be regarded as insufficiently decisive in the event of an irrevocable conviction. If he is in doubt, he may apply for an income statement through the Legal Assistance Board. So that's also secured. In response to Mrs Strik, I would also like to point out that the assistance of the picket lawyer remains outside this measure. The costs shall not be recovered from the defendant. Mrs Strik also asked about the non-regression clause. I agree with her that the non-regression clause makes it clear that Member States which comply with the Directive should not fall below the standards laid down by the ECHR. If the ECHR were to impose more requirements, we would, of course, comply with them. However, that is not the case. The directive lays down more requirements than the ECHR, and that is why we comply with it. We've already dealt with community service for minors. Mrs Strik asked whether the Court of the European Union has the last word and, if so, whether I agree. What am I gonna say? Shall I say no to see what Mrs. Strik will do to me? I'm not gonna do that. The answer is simply yes. The Court in Luxembourg has the final say. Her second question was whether the interpretation of interrogation assistance takes place in general rules. Yes, that was also discussed with the House of Representatives in concept. That is now ahead of the Council of State. That's the so-called Decision establishment and order police interrogation. The rules become clear and understandable to everyone. They can also be adjusted if necessary. Mrs Strik asked me whether I share the view that the Supreme Court did not review the policy letter of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the light of the directive. The Supreme Court has examined the standards developed by case law. Those are the statements of the ECHR and the Supreme Court in 2015; we talked about that judgment. The Decision establishment and order of police interrogation regulates this and is therefore now with the Council of State. The policy letter is in line with the draft decision. Materially, therefore, the Supreme Court reviewed and found this decision and the OM policy letter to be in order. So I'm not worried about that. If Mrs. Strik does, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u30	Thanks for the selection of the questions and the answers to them, but I'm missing a bit of the point I was trying to make; apparently I didn't do that right. My point is that the directive goes beyond the ECHR and the ECHR case-law. The Minister has just admitted that the directive goes beyond the ECHR. I'm happy about that in itself. He then says that the Supreme Court has already found the draft decision, the OM policy rules, to be in order. Indeed, but this was assessed in the light of the ECHR case law and thus not in the light of the directive. And that's what my question was about. Now it seems that the Supreme Court has found it okay, that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been answered in a positive way and that we are therefore already ready when we implement it. My question remains: is this draft decision consistent with case law and is it consistent with the directive? The Minister is right to point out that the directive goes further. The directive actually imposes an obligation on the counsellor to take an active part in the interrogation. The preamble gives examples of what that should mean. I'd like an answer to that. The Supreme Court did not review the directive. That is why that point remains above the market. That was actually the essence of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u31	Mrs Strik also said that we would probably not agree on this. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat ik de overtuiging heb dat beide wetsvoorstellen voldoen aan de implementatie van de richtlijn.]] The standards are indeed higher than in the ECHR, as I said earlier. This means that we are convinced that we are complying with the standards of the directive, otherwise I cannot implement the directive and I take the risk that I will eventually have a discussion about it, whether through the Commission or the European Court of Justice. I don't want to. For these reasons, we are, to our best knowledge, complying with the standards laid down. The Supreme Court cannot formally review a directive that is not yet in place and has not yet been implemented, but I cannot escape the impression that the Supreme Court will have looked at it materially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u32	On several points, the Supreme Court explicitly states that it did not do so. So I wouldn't necessarily assume that. In the reply, the Minister states that the preamble and the preamble which states that a lawyer's statement must be made is merely a recital. I would point out that the Court of Justice refers precisely to the interpretation of those provisions. What is the Minister's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u33	My answer is that, of course, there is a difference between the preamble and the provisions of the directive itself. The implementation of the Directive will take place with all due care. I am convinced that we meet the requirements of the directive. We'll do it with all due care. We are also doing this flexibly; that was also asked for. We're monitoring that. If there were any reason to change the decision in the future, we will certainly do so. I'm not worried about anything. With the implementation as it stands, we meet the requirements of the directive. There's no other way to do that, because otherwise I wouldn't be filing the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u34	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u35	I would like to make one more point. The Minister states that it is indeed not binding. But what is the meaning of the preamble? There are no meaningful provisions in such a recital, are there? What is the meaning of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u36	I have seen a lot of directives pass in recent years with four or five pages in advance, after which the articles follow. The articles are the essence of the matter. The recital indicates colour. I agree with Mrs. Strik. However, this does not give rise to any obligations. The final question is whether the coloring is meant to ultimately indicate a change in the legislative proposal. The preamble is a recital, no more than that. It concerns the actual articles in the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u37	I listen intensively and very carefully to colleagues' questions and the Minister's answers. In fact, I was waiting for an answer from the Minister which I do not think I have heard yet. This is about Mrs Strik's final point. I was waiting for the Minister to refer to paragraph 3.6.9 of the judgment of the Supreme Court of 13 September. I believe that in that recital the Supreme Court states that in the event that the policy letter of the Public Prosecutor and its Annex 2 would still be in force after the expiry of the period of implementation of the Directive, the rules contained in that letter and Annex do not have any such content that it can be said at this stage that there would then be a basis for issuing an order to withdraw it or to adapt it by the court of provision for obvious conflict with the directive. I believe that this is an argument for the Minister's reasoning, but I have not heard him mention it, and that makes me a little restless. Hence my question to the Minister whether I am wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u38	I congratulate Mrs Beuving on her remark and thank her very much for bringing it in. As a lawyer, I would have said: I would like to regard this remark as repeated and inserted. However, that is not necessary now, because Mrs Beuving has rightly pointed this out. I would like to join her with warm thanks. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u39	Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification. I would still like to hear from him why the government has decided not to bear the costs of legal aid at public prosecutor's hearings in which a minor is to receive a service of up to 32 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I believe that we continue to differ as to whether implementation is sufficient. The Minister just indicated that he wanted to implement in good time in order to avoid an infringement procedure. I assume that the Minister also wants to avoid the need for infringement proceedings by the Commission on substantive grounds. That is why I have the following question about the substantive implementation. The Minister has already indicated that an evaluation should be carried out within three years. The Commission will then evaluate compliance with the Directive. How does the Minister carry out this evaluation? The rules contained in the OM policy letter shall be included in the decision. I am very curious to know how the Minister is going to ensure that the rules do not work too restrictively on the possibility of active participation in the hearing by the counsellors. Those rules can be restrictive and the question is how you get the idea that this is the case and that a counselor would have wanted and should have applied more than he has been allowed to do. My concerns continue to focus on the way in which funding is currently regulated. If it is not enough, we cannot comply with the directive. In this case, the effectiveness of the Directive is hampered. The Minister states that continuous monitoring is taking place. We can keep an eye on whether the funding is sufficient. We would like to be informed more about its results, even in the interim, should it prove to be a major financial problem. The Minister says that lawyers will continue to provide this assistance, but they may not be able to do so at some point. It may prove possible for a while, but there may be problems in the longer term. If the balance is really negative, there will be more failure. We all have to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Wezel for her second question, because she had already put this question in an interrupting debate. I don't have much to add to my answer. The starting point remains the same. The system of legal aid is used where it is necessary. Then you can have a discussion about the borders. Mrs Wezel is also having that discussion. As far as the government is concerned, this principle remains at the forefront. I note, however, that we have not yet discussed the fact that Halt is more applicable than before. In other words, Halt will be chosen much more often. Wherever possible, this is often the best solution for young people. Mrs. Strik asked about the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u43	I'd like to ask the Minister what he's basing himself on. Parties such as the Public Prosecutor's Office have spoken out against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u44	As I have just said, Mrs Wezel has already asked that question and I have already answered it. We base ourselves on the premise that, in the opinion of the Cabinet, legal aid should be used wherever it is necessary. We assume that Halt will be used much more in the future. We assume that a minor can always be assisted by a legal representative in the form of his parent or by a legal representative. Then there is the question of where the border is. We have drawn that line at the time when the level of the sentence imposed is such that the assistance is to be paid by the government. That's the line we chose. I spoke about this in the House of Representatives. I understand very well that Mrs Wezel would like to have the border somewhere else, but this is the basis for the government's choice. Mrs. Strik asked about the evaluation. Reviews of a bill like this are carried out in the usual way. There will be an active input from all parties involved: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, but also, of course, from the legal profession. Monitoring shall be carried out on a permanent basis. I am convinced that if problems arise with the availability of lawyers, the order of lawyers that will undoubtedly let me know and probably also you and others. That's how I know the order of lawyers. That is understandable, because if there are concerns, they must be shared. I would like to point out that the questioning practice that has arisen since 1 March has been reviewed by the judge. That's not nothing. The judge will also check whether, if lawyers rely on it, the lawyer has had sufficient opportunity, under the law, to have his or her input through the detective with the suspect, whether or not at the end of the interview. This also guarantees a permanent evaluation in the individual criminal case. Funding is regulated and substantial. The funding is actually being evaluated automatically. This is happening in the annual report and also in the budget. So there are two moments when this evaluation takes place. Then the point of failure. Mrs Strik has a point to make. Besides, I don't think there's any fallout. The Wolfsen Committee has said that the task of consultation and interrogation assistance can also be considered for the use of paralegals under the responsibility of a lawyer. I have chosen, in consultation with the order, not to do so, as is reflected in the cabinet response, because the order of lawyers indicated that it was very important that there are lawyers who do so directly. Then it does not happen under the responsibility of a lawyer, but directly. I've agreed to that. For this reason, you will not find the word "paralegal" in the cabinet letter on the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee. However, should there ever be a need in a particular situation, the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee is not incomprehensible in itself. You could do that with paralegals under the responsibility of a lawyer. That will undoubtedly have many hooks and eyes, but if that proves necessary in the future, we will certainly investigate it. At the moment there is no such need, because as a result of the investigation by the Wolfsen Commission, it is clear that in recent years we have received more legal aid providers on the basis of funded legal aid than in the past. So there is more offer of lawyers than less, but in the future this opinion from the Wolfsen Committee could very well be brought up to date. Then I really think this is something to look at. I'd like to close with that. Thank you very much for your Chamber's willingness to discuss this so quickly. I hope that we will have a nice and moving path: the European directive, the ruling of the Supreme Court, an accelerated implementation on 1 March and a practice that has developed very well, with the importance of the suspect and our rule of law high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-15-eerstekamer-4.u45	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Would one of the Members like to vote on the legislative proposal Implementation of Directive No. 2013/48/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and in proceedings for the execution of a European arrest warrant and the right to have a third party informed from deprivation of liberty and to communicate with third parties and consular authorities during deprivation of liberty (PbEU L294) (34157)? That is not the case. The bill is passed without a vote. The President shall: Anybody want a note? That is not the case. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill of amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and any other laws supplementing provisions on the suspect, the counsellor and some means of coercion (34159)? That is not the case. The bill is passed without a vote. The President shall: Anybody want a note? Nor is that the case.
