ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last night we learned about the good news that Leiden University stopped participating in the experiment with the binding study advice in the second year of study. That is a victory for students and certainly for participation. They knew themselves supported by the Chamber when it adopted Mr Rog's motion from the CDA and myself to put an end to the idea that students could be expelled throughout the Netherlands after the second year of study. Students should be given space to develop and study should never be reduced to a final sprint to a diploma. Does the Minister agree with me that it is a good thing that Leiden has stopped participating in this experiment? And did the influence of participation work? I'd like to get a response. How will the Minister implement the motion of the Labour Party and the CDA to definitively regulate the limitation of the binding study advice in the first year? The Higher Education Press Office reports today it is still fresh news that education judges of the College of Appeals for Higher Education crack the way institutions work and also point out that institutions break the law if they use the binding study advice in the first year. In itself, a large majority in the Chamber says that it is fine that students have to meet something in the first year, but how does the Minister judge the fact that individual cases show that institutions are breaking the rules? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Mohandis asks what I think that Leiden University has stopped experimenting with the binding study advice in the second year. I am pleased to hear that Leiden University has used the experiment for which it is intended, namely to learn from it. It has been learned that the binding study advice in the second year, for all training courses, does not work in Leiden. Did the co-determination work? In this case participation has worked well. It has been said that not only the increased stress on students due to the binding study advice, but also the increased workload on teachers led to the request to stop the binding study advice in the second year. I'm positive about that. Leiden did it in a good way. I see this decision by Leiden University as a clear signal that the widespread use of this instrument does not seem to work. That also answers the question of how we deal with the amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u3	It's a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sorry, the motion to limit the binding study advice on the upcoming quality agreements to the first year of the bachelor's. On the basis of the evaluation in Leiden, I see no reason to introduce the binding study opinion on a large scale in the second year. It was an experiment. A number of institutions are still experimenting with the binding study advice in the second year. I think that we should complete the experiment there in order to learn even further from it, as Leiden has learned. We do stop the binding study advice in the second year, but we also know from this experiment that we can even better accompany students in their study progress. In order to be able to answer the question about the message of HOP and the violation of the law, I should have a better look at those cases. They're individual judgments of an administrative judge. I have to consider whether it is policy-related or procedural issues, so I cannot go into it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u5	It would be good if the Minister informed us more about what the HOP has reported today about how institutions are using the instrument of binding study advice in the first year and about the fact that more and more institutions are reluctant to deal with it, now that there are all kinds of individual statements. I think it would be a good idea to look at this again, because not so long ago we found here that a binding study opinion was a good idea in the first year. I think the Chamber has been clear about the binding study opinion in the second year. This type of measure does not, in my view, promote better study. It only leads to students being hunted, without being able to develop more widely. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it should never become part of future quality agreements with institutions if the Chamber states that it will not have to act because this type of measure is undesirable. I really don't think that's a good move. We will make proposals in the coming year to get it at least a different direction, because this type of measure simply does not contribute. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees with me and how she interprets the motion we adopted in July 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think it would be a good idea to look at the binding study advice in the first year. I see that there are statements in which it concerns not only the binding study advice in the first year, but also the question of whether you should demand that in the second year you achieve your propedeuse if you have not achieved all your points in the first year and how that works. I admit that I will inform the Chamber more about the subject of the binding study opinion in the first year in general, when I have the data. I don't know exactly when I have it. I think I've been clear about the motion. I have seen this motion widely supported in the Chamber. I have also noted what is happening in Leiden and that there is the conclusion that we will not continue with the binding study advice. I can say that I'm not doing much work on preparing a law right now. I'm just saying, let's give the experiments that are going on here a chance and finish it right. Then we'll see what lessons we can draw from it. That's what we agreed. These may well be lessons other than simply introducing a binding study opinion or not. That's what I just mentioned about Leiden. It can also be about how to better support students in finding progress in their study pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u7	I see it a little bit wider. We had a debate not so long ago about measures that we introduce in higher education that can or cannot be supported by students and teachers. Several amendments were adopted to the legislative proposal on strengthening administrative power. That bill's in the First Chamber. As far as I am concerned, in the future, we need to make decision-making much more bottom-up rather than thinking here about what type of passed-through efficiency measure, give it a name. Does the Minister agree with me that the bill that is now in the First Chamber, assuming that I am still positive that it all comes to a successful conclusion, provides much more guidance to students and teachers to stop this type of measure if they do not want it? It's worked in part now. Leiden University didn't really make sense, didn't listen to the participation and finally went through the CBHO and other statements. That's a good decision. Does the Minister agree with me that we have now created many more of these handles? As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this type of measure is not part of a proper study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u8	I agree with Mr Mohandis that the good conversation took place in Leiden, so to speak, between governance and participation. I also say that I think that the university has done well in the sense that it has also carried out a thorough evaluation, that it has shared and weighed it, and that it has included the complaints of students and teachers. That is a form of bottom-up, as Mr Mohandis calls it. This may mean that one university is not always the same as the other, but that it is created jointly within an educational community. So let's take Leiden as a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u10	It's very good that this experiment has stopped. It could never have started if the Labour Party had also voted for D66 and SP's motion on 9 April 2013 not to start this experiment at all. Anyway, end well, all right, it stopped. There is a great deal of criticism about what is going on in higher education, including the binding study advice in the first year. Mr Mohandis has already mentioned it. Meanwhile, the Minister is also in the process of introducing the binding study advice into the MBO. Is it prepared to stop the introduction of a binding study advice into the MBO immediately, as long as we do not know exactly how things are going and how things are going to be in higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u11	I think that is too quick a conclusion from Mr Van Meenen. For the binding study advice in higher education, as far as I am concerned, there is broad support here too. We also see positive elements of this. Of course we'll keep following that. However, a binding study opinion in the MBO really has a different character. This is for students who are in training for some reason and who can be predicted with great certainty that the chances of success are very small. So the question is, what do you do to a student if you leave him there? Its design is really different. The law of registration and admission rights MBO is in the Chamber. All students are granted the right to join the MBO and cannot be refused because of subjective arguments, so there is no selection at the gate. If a student is obviously in the wrong place and doesn't really want to learn in some way, the institution should be able to say to him: this is no longer the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u12	You may ask a supplementary question, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The arguments used by the Minister to justify the introduction of a binding study advice in the MBO are indeed the right ones: you must prevent students from attending a study in which they really have no chance at all. These are exactly the same arguments as those used to introduce the binding study advice in higher education in the first year. That's how it should work, but the practice is that it involves an arbitrary number of credits. One year they say "you know what, we're doing 40 credits" and the next, "Well, it doesn't really work so we'll make 50 of them." Some institutions make it 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u14	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u15	There is therefore total arbitrariness. Fortunately, the Minister is now going to examine the operation of the binding study advice in higher education in the first year. I repeat my question. Before we make the same mistakes in the MBO, which I believe is even more vulnerable, as in higher education, I ask for a pass to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u16	I just said that we would confuse two things, because the system is really different. In higher education, the binding study advice is also part of the profiling of institutions. One university or college wants a strict discipline. Some students want that too and choose a university. Others want to work much more from their own practice and much more their own responsibility. That's good for another group of students. I don't want to fit everyone in that one mold. I have already said to Mr Mohandis that things happen more from the bottom up, in conjunction with participation. That goes for this too. Other factors really play a role in MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u17	From the coverage that eventually led to the end of the experiment in Leiden, an image emerges of a binding study advice that is applied by various educational institutions in a totally different way, with different standards, with different consequences, with intermediate forms as a warning and with an opinion that is binding and that one tries to repeat again in the second year. Does the Minister agree with me that it is in fact a mess and that you have to observe that if an arrangement is interpreted so differently that it has to be corrected through an x-number of court cases, which are put together in such a way that you have to stop now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u18	There is no settlement. There is room for settings to start an experiment, with the emphasis on "experiment." In Leiden, that experiment was widely applied, to all training courses. After an evaluation, it has now been concluded that it is not wise to continue this experiment. That's why I think it's wise for Leiden University to stop. However, I cannot conclude if the scheme as such is wrong, because I do not have an arrangement. The binding study advice for the second year includes experiments at the Gerrit Rietveld Academy and the Amsterdam University College. Those are very different groups of students. Maybe it works there, but maybe it doesn't. I don't know. In any case, I would like to give these institutions the opportunity to bring the experiment to a successful conclusion so that they and we too can learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u19	Second supplementary question, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u20	I was concerned with the binding study advice in the first year, which is used in completely different ways by training courses. This is also apparent from several statements by the College of Occupational Higher Education. We have to note that the rules governing the binding study opinion are interpreted very differently in the first year and that what can and should ultimately be determined through the courts. I repeat the question: does the Minister agree that the arrangement is not good by its nature if it is to work in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-3.u21	No, because we have a lot of regulations in which we leave room in higher education for institutions to implement them themselves. As I have just said to Mr Mohandis, this must be done in conjunction with participation. The Court made clear statements about this in the process of examining the Law on the strengthening of the administrative power of educational institutions. The consequence is that it does not need to be designed in exactly the same way in all cases. It must, of course, be clearly defined and clearly communicated. We will therefore examine what lessons we can draw from the CBHO's statements for the future of the binding study advice and its design.
