ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Stokhum writes to me: "I sometimes do not eat so that my children can eat and then I lie to my children that I have already eaten something or that I will eat later. I have two more years to live and then three years in debt relief." Prime Minister Rutte promised every Dutchman €1,000 before the elections. With a promise of €1,000 additional debt for the Dutchman it would not have been a lie, at least for the poor side of the Netherlands. Due to huge cuts, low incomes, higher rents, even higher care costs and a huge bureaucracy, one in five Dutch people now has problematic debts. The cabinet is making more than 50 billion cuts, a policy of impoverishment that prevents more and more groups from getting to grips with each other. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a critical look at cabinet policy? What politics causes people's debts? This is a first condition in order to be able to close the faucet for the emergence of debt and effectively combat debt and poverty. Mickie van der Klooster writes to me: "For years I have been lagging behind my health insurance provider, which means that I pay 130% premium and do not get paid. I can't go anywhere. I can't change insurance. Every year I pay around €700 fine to the Dutch State." According to the government, this policy should act as a stimulus, so that paybackers will pay properly. However, it is counterproductive, because nothing can be redeemed at all. It is an example of failing and wrong government policy and of impoverishment policy. The number of debt relief applications has doubled for a reason in recent years. The average amount of debt has also risen. Last Sunday, in De Monitor, it became clear once again that debt relief is often seriously inadequate. The consequences are disastrous, people knock in vain on their congregation for debt relief. Obstacles are being created which are not covered by the law, but are being applied. Irma writes to me: "I am in debt, but debt relief cannot help me because of under-income." You heard me right. Is the Secretary of State finally gonna make sure everyone gets help? How's she gonna do that? Is she prepared, for example, to start as soon as possible with a hotline for people who are out of the boat, so that we can have some insight into this? I would like to know what is going on with the introduction of the legal moratorium, seven years to date. We know that the law is ready for this; we have been hearing this for years. When's it coming to the room? Are we gonna implement that law this year? Will the Secretary of State bring that to the Chamber next week? The Secretary of State is system responsible for the Municipal Debt Relief Act. The aim is to prevent or resolve problematic debt as much as possible. Shouldn't the Secretary of State conclude that this failed for her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. One in five households have high-risk debts. A large part of it actually gets in trouble. One in five, then. Let that get through to you. Why don't you take a look in this room and think how many people that would hit here? It's often people who live around the minimum. But more and more often it is also about middle incomes, so people with a normal salary who get into trouble anyway. The Chamber has been worried about this for a long time. I am also concerned about the help these people are getting, or perhaps not getting. I agree with something Mrs Karabulut just mentioned. Last year, I believe in November, the Secretary of State said that she would soon come to the Chamber with the legislative proposal on the legal moratorium. We have been about four months and still haven't seen anything, while this proposal has been ready for years. Can the Secretary of State promise that it will be here as soon as possible, so that we can really settle this this this year? In that context, I am also concerned about what is happening at the CJIB. It is now finally possible to agree on a payment arrangement under strict conditions in the event of a fine. However, there are still cases that are not eligible for this. Let me say first of all, people who get a fine, they just have to pay. However, it is too common for the CJIB to bang through sections and that this will cause more and more problems for the people involved. I want the Secretary of State to show how it is possible that the CJIB will also respect such routes, so that the costs do not increase for these people. That doesn't help society in the end either. The Vereniging Eigen Huis proposed last week to register the student debts with the BKR. It's this cabinet that has saddled our young people with high college debts. We had already predicted that this would cause problems, and it appears that this is increasingly the case. The Vereniging Eigen Huis is concerned about this and I can imagine that, but registering at the BKR can also mean that young people can no longer buy a house at all. At the same time, the situation at the moment is that if you honestly admit that you have debts, you're screwed, but if you keep it from me, you're gonna get away with it; that's an dishonesty that shouldn't be allowed either. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a look at this, in the sense that either the principle of equal monks applies to equal hoods, where everyone is registered and examined how to help young people in the housing market in a different way, or we all simply accept that a group is going to get into more and more trouble as a result of the study system? I also ask the Secretary of State about the implementation of the Heerma/Schouten motion on governance. Can it indicate when this will be clarified? I would also point out that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the preference of creditors. It may happen that, for example, a housing corporation is equal to Wehkamp, with all the consequences. Can the Secretary of State undertake a letter stating how it will regulate the preference of different creditors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	I share with Mrs Schouten the fight to improve the system of debt relief. I do have one more question for her. Part of the cause of the debt lies in government policy, which has often been supported by its party. Does she say, with the knowledge of today, that it should be looked at critically that this puts people in trouble, whether that's the cost of care or the high rents? Shouldn't we at least ask the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	We always have. When laws are introduced, we look at their effects on lower incomes. Wherever that gives us trouble, we call the bell ourselves. So I think it is an unnecessary question from Mrs Karabulut. It is always better to first look at the effects, but when measures are introduced we also look at their impact on lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	This is the answer I expected from the Secretary of State. Now the Secretary of State certainly fits Mrs Schouten, but she is now, like me, a representative of the people. More and more people, as well as the aid organisations, indicate that the government's policy, of which the higher rents are part, is one of the biggest causes. I would like a more substantive answer than Mrs Schouten's answer. Look, we do, but are we going to solve it when we see that government policy is a co-cause of growing inequality, growing debt and growing poverty in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	To give you an example, this debate is followed by another part of the debate on the flow of the rental market. That's also about the rent increases. Last Tuesday I had a debate with the cabinet until night, and then I also drew attention, for example, to the groups which are just between shore and ship and which are just outside the rent allowance, but are unable to flow to the regular housing market and are therefore completely stuck with their income. So the suggestion that we are not paying attention to that, I contradict. Maybe this example reflects that. It is always good to receive an inventory of how it works out. It's just that I disagree that we don't pay any attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about debt issues and higher rents, higher excise duties and higher VAT. Everything's going up, and that's cabinet policy. It is cabinet policy to charge people with higher burdens to save Greece, for example, to keep the borders open, to build asylum centres and so on. All that kind of business has to be paid for. What can only be done? Squeeze the population further. But the bills will of course continue to come. Of course, this often affects the people with debt problems. These are people at the bottom of the labour market, people who are unemployed. How does unemployment get so high? Again, that's because of government policy. People can report to the municipality for debt relief. We are in favour of allowing people to make use of this at least once. I don't really see the eyes of the cabinet open to these people. They keep getting bombarded with higher charges and higher rents. It is the essence of Rutte II: if you want to cut back or increase the burden, you throw it over the fence to the municipalities, you give that less state contribution and then they raise the burden locally. That's how the circle is round. I see my esteemed colleague Karabulut standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	What Mr De Graaf says about Rutte II is certainly true. 15 billion cuts, that is not necessary, not even with a refugee crisis. Back to Rutte I, where the PVV has also made huge cuts in the rents, the sale of the social rentals, as a result of which we now have a huge shortage of care costs and social employment services. He wanted to get rid of all that, too. Does he want people to tell you the truth, instead of just pointing at people in need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	It seems as if we have gone back a number of years in this debate. That's fine, then we just pretend it's 2011. We took responsibility at that time. The SP has never done that here before. He's always been out of the cabinet. At least we've been tolerant partners. The situation at the time, although only so recently, was very different than it is now. It was a completely different time when you look at the influx and the like that is now and the situation in the labour market that is completely different. That's a whole different story. We have taken our responsibility, but also, when it became awesome for the groups we are talking about, the plug was pulled out because it was no longer justifiable. That is where we have also taken responsibility. That sounds like a story the SP should be waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	The truth is that the PVV is as right-wing as, or perhaps more right-right than the VVD, the CDA and D66 put together. It has been the PVV that has saddled the people with the start of a billion-dollar savings package, and it is the same PVV, which at the moment, with 90% of the proposals of those right-wing parties that squeeze people, just majority. That's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	I didn't hear any further questions. Of course, I'd like to respond, because I don't want to be childish. I told you it was a different time. You can say the PVV is right. From the VVD we hear: the PVV is very left. That's how we're elusive to everyone, except for the people who it's about. They want to vote massively for the PVV. That's why we're 42 seats in the polls. Those people will see what we do right. That's the jump the SP can't make. He's gonna do something wrong. I don't just want to go to the polls, but it's about whether you have a normal package. That's what the PVV has. We're sticking up for those people. And yes, we participated in the start of austerity, but when it got crazy, we pulled the plug. Do not say that we supported all these cuts later, because that is, of course, I must say that it is not a fair story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I took a look, but Mr. De Graaf last year...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mrs Karabulut, would you like to ask another question? You just didn't ask a question. Actually, that wasn't an interruption. I'm gonna give you one more chance. Next time, we're gonna do it in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	Last September, Mr De Graaf voted against a proposal from us not to sell out social housing. As a result, there is an even greater shortage of affordable homes for ordinary Dutch people. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	The deficit, and that is why we voted against that proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	I just want a yes or a no!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	May I speak, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mrs Karabulut, we are meeting here in an orderly manner. I call Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	The shortage in that housing market, in that rental market, is caused by the huge influx. I know the stories here from The Hague, because I'm from here. I know how many Syrians, Afghans, up to Bengal, are placed here with priority over people who have been waiting for those houses for years. Yes, we then cooperated in the sale of part because we believe in people's right to self-determination. The SP has less to do with that. We think that property is good, that people get responsibility. The SP wants to keep the responsibility entirely with the government. We believe in people's own power. Indeed, a number of houses have been sold to allow the housing stock to reach the people, to give the people the advantage that they can own the place where they live. That's fantastic, isn't it? Mrs. Karabulut doesn't want that. They want everyone in a rental house, they want everyone on a basic paycheck. That's not gonna work, because that's gonna have to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Self-destruct ammehula. All these Dutch people are now simply on the waiting list because you participated in the sale of affordable social housing. That's the truth and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	This hard-ass lie gets out of SP all the time. I am sure that will happen again in the House debate. It's the influx. The SP wants to open the borders even more, wants to bring in more people and wants to chase all those Dutch out of their rental house. That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	The PVV rightly points out that people are faced with very high burdens. It makes life expensive and allows people to get into debt. However, the PVV is itself in favour of 42% to 52% income tax. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	I know that Mr Van Klaveren of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group is indeed in favour of a flat tax or something. Then you turn one button somewhere and then everything really tumbles together. Then you won't have any organization as a country at all. Then it's financially completely unworkable. We're in favour of relief. I have already made the point for Mr Van Klaveren; I am so kind today. We are in favour of tax relief, lower excise duties, lower VAT. We have always put forward proposals for this. I do not remember Mr Van Klaveren voting in favour of it. Charge relief, load relief, load relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	Of course, it is not a burden relief if you take 42% to 52% of people's income. We are always in favour of relief. We have supported all motions from all parties leading to relief of burdens, including the motions of the PVV. We will continue to do so, but the question remains why the PVV is in favour of 42% to 52% income tax. In doing so, she takes ownership from the middle class. That makes people poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	I think I've already explained that. If you want to relieve the burden, you can do it in different ways. It is very nice that Mr Van Klaveren has voted in favour, but if you continue in his own way, people will no longer be concerned, you will no longer be able to take care of the elderly, even more so, you will no longer be able to close the borders, then the influx of asylum seekers will get even bigger, because you will not have a penny left to start guarding that border at some point. Then you're throwing away the baby with the bathwater. As a new party, you may want a lot, but you can't live up to it. The PVV can do that. Our previous election programme, which also includes Mr Van Klaveren's signature, was calculated by the CPB and came out as the very best election programme. I think it's a little late to start criticizing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	The plans of our group, of VNL, have all been properly calculated by the Central Planning Office. You should have known that if you had read the documents; that would not be wrong in this case. The point remains, of course, that the PVV is in favour of between 42% and 52% income tax. That's a huge expense to people. That is annoying because you are taking ownership away, but you are also, of course, somewhat contradicting yourself by saying that there will be more asylum seekers if people are no longer able to use the welfare state. Your story was always: there is a welfare state and that is why asylum seekers are coming to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	What is your question, Mr Van Klaveren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	My question has actually already been answered by Mr De Graaf: they are for heavy burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	You are above all trying to convince each other of the right of your electoral programmes, but I think it would be better to allow interruptions to be interruptions and just to ask questions. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr De Graaf pointed out that the PVV had 42 seats in the polls and pointed out that he wanted to take government responsibility. I listened carefully to his speech and I heard that he placed all the responsibility for the misery that people have because of their debts in the Cabinet. What specific proposals would Mr De Graaf make on behalf of the PVV to help people in debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr Kuzu says that we put everything on the cabinet. The cabinet is a very big cause, but I certainly do not forget people's own responsibility. There are people who have fallen into debt because of their own actions, for example because they cannot keep an overview or have taken too many loans. I do insist that the government is playing an increasingly important role in the emergence of debt. The bills continue to come and if you raise the municipal burden, for example by decentralising policy and throwing the municipalities over the fence, it will of course be very difficult for people. We have, moreover, been making a very concrete proposal for years, namely that people should be able to make greater use of debt relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr De Graaf gives one example, but as far as I am concerned, the debt problem is a multifaceted monster. With this proposal alone, he really does not solve the problem. That's a heartfelt advice from me to the PVV. I would really ask Mr De Graaf to come up with concrete proposals to help these people. Of course, this does not affect people's own responsibility. I now hear only political creeds that have been used in The Hague for years. If you're serious when you say you want to take government responsibility in the future, come up with concrete proposals to help people in debt. Do these proposals, if any, apply to all Dutch people, regardless of their origin and religion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr President, I do not understand the question. What is this quatsch?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	I don't speak Chinese. Mr De Graaf should understand this. It's a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Kuzu, your question was clear. It is up to Mr De Graaf to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	I repeat the word "quatsch" because why should that not apply to other people? I've never heard such bullshit before. Mr Kuzu's question remains a bit of a matter for me. The Dutch are Dutch and if they have a different origin, so be it. If people come from Suriname but are Dutch, why shouldn't they be allowed to use a rule in the Netherlands? It's as simple as that. If you go for a representative position and have a double passport, you will have a problem with the PVV. But that's a different story, because you're talking about representative functions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	No, Mr. Kuzu. Mr De Graaf has given a clear answer. You asked a clear question and you received a clear answer. Mr De Graaf, are you done or are you almost done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	I'm almost halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	Then you'll have to keep working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	I see on the bell that I still have 1.41 minutes. It's going really fast, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. I'd like to talk about the hypocrisy of throwing things over the fence in the municipalities. These municipalities must therefore increase the burden and, of course, people will remain in trouble. I told you this year, 100,000 asylum seekers will receive free accommodation, free care, free transport, free food, free language lessons and free living money, while there would be no money for many other things at a time when older people are dying and there are less than 5 million permanent contracts. This has to do with lousy legislation by, among other things, the PvdA, a party that participates in the cabinet. The few asylum seekers who have a diploma may then replace tens of thousands of redundant healthcare workers. We saw the example in Katwijk last week. And in return for your welfare allowance, you can go to Budel for example to soak up toilets for people who refuse to do so themselves. And they must be helped by the Minister, not the Secretary of State, to volunteer in an old people's home, where they are not understood. What do you mean, integration? It's a big mess gang. We've already talked about home care. I have half a minute left on the last subject; the President is already laughing at me, but I am almost finished, because much has already been discussed. We've been robbed of a lot. The common man has also been deprived of much: of his income position, of his pension and, therefore, of his dignity. When you look at the open borders and the mass immigration, you think: this would not have been necessary. Every Dutchman could have had two cars and a boat to go on holiday six times a year. You could have; you shouldn't have. It's a trade-off for everyone, but it could have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	I had another question about the debt relief. About 150,000 to 200,000 people reporting are not well helped by debt relief. What solutions does the PVV have for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	What solutions do we have? People should be able to use it anyway, but this is indeed a problem. How do these problems arise? Because of the huge influx of heavy loads. So the government creates its own problem. If you throw the place over the fence at the municipalities again, you have a problem. In any case, part of the municipal budget will have to be used for this. I can't just shove a budget out of my sleeve to put so many extra officials there. You're just gonna increase the government by that. Perhaps more effective and efficient work could be done in the area of debt relief in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	If I understand correctly, you say it is a budgetary problem, but the PVV does not want the government to invest more money in the quality and quantity of debt relief. Those 150,000 to 200,000 people still haven't been helped. That's all you know, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	As I said, this problem was partly caused by the government. This is not just a budgetary problem. With free money, you can't solve everything. That's the SP line. The SP wants to solve everything with free money; others have to pay it again. If Mrs Karabulut knows a way to solve the debt problem for a lot of people within a day, a few days or a week, let us remain realistic, be my guest! But there's no such thing. There is no panacea for debt relief and this kind of problem. The government has caused this problem to a large extent. Then much will also have to be solved within the government, especially by working more efficiently. We are also, of course, talking about the reduction of charges I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the government is spending 100 million a year in structural terms to tackle poverty and debt problems, the problems are still very large. Compared to 2009 and 2012, more people now have a risk of problematic debt. Attracting the business cycle does not translate into a reduction in the number of debtors and, in the case of formal debt relief, almost 1.2 million debtors are not even in sight. New is the fact that the risk of long-term poverty is highest among 55- to 65-year-olds. Half the people in welfare are 45-plus. In single parent families and non-western households, poverty and debt problems are high and their chances are high. This cabinet claims to want to ensure that "no people sink through the ice." This is completely inadequate for these groups. 50PLUS thinks it is excellent that the government pays extra attention to children in poverty, because this is very much needed, but it believes that a more targeted approach should also be taken for the elderly, single parent families and non-Western households. How's the government gonna do that? The risk of poverty and social exclusion of older people is closely linked to their labour market opportunities. They've been sad for 55- to 65-year-olds for some time. The approach to older people's unemployment needs to be strengthened with great urgency. When is the ambassador for the elderly's unemployment coming? What is the status of the new action plan and its consultation with the social partners? 50PLUS calls on the government to step up its efforts to provide good and timely information on debt relief opportunities and, above all, on alert and prevention. Timely detection and budget management can help to prevent major debt problems. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? My group also asks the Secretary of State to address the advantages and disadvantages of debt cancellation and an approach whereby debts are taken over by the government and the debtor pays a low interest rate. I would like to make this very clear, because repeated crime is often persistent. Otherwise dealing with debt cancellation can help. Entrepreneur Annemarie van Gaal has already made several suggestions for this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if there are more possibilities in this area? Can it indicate how many municipalities have a form of debt relief available to small, often older, self-employed and former self-employed people? We think it is very important that there is one. Can something be done to bring local authorities' practices more into line? In the letter we received yesterday from the Secretary of State on various poverty reports, there is a passage about the positive purchasing power effects for most households in 2016. 50PLUS calls again for attention for early retirementers with a small supplementary pension and often high care costs. They see a minus in their purchasing power this year. This group is on the verge of water. I'm asking the Secretary of State what she's doing for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested last spring by Mr Karabulut in response to the NVVK's annual figures on the increase in the number of households with problematic debts. It is a 30-member debate because it was supported at that time by almost the entire opposition, but not by the coalition. It's been a lot of months. Just before the budget debate, we received letters from the Secretary of State on matters which were not given much attention in the budget. It is therefore good to be able to talk about this in this debate, which is unfortunately a thirty-member debate. Problematic debts have many different causes. As Mrs Schouten has just said, first of all, people have their own responsibility for the debts they make and their payment. It is important, however, that we have talked about this in various general discussions, so as to avoid the unnecessary growth of those debts through all kinds of fines that are imposed, whereas it has long been established that it is not possible to pay because the foot is not respected. That applies especially if it's the government that doesn't. We, too, are getting too many signals that this is happening at the CJIB and the Tax Office. Recently, the childcare allowance passed again, so that problems arise because the government does not properly enforce its own rules. Due to all the preferential arrangements, the NVVK already wrote it in the Paritas Passé report, a kind of run on debts arises. All kinds of preferential parties try to pull something in as soon as possible. We have already discussed this in a great deal of general terms. I would like to say to Mrs Schouten that just now, Mrs Schouten, that the Secretary of State has made it clear how that works and what can happen to prevent that run, which the NVVK has been warning about for some time now. Another question is how a party such as the CJIB, also in anticipation of the adjustment of the attachment-free foot by the bill that the State Secretary is working on, can already better respect. We should not wait until the bill on the batter-free foot is passed. When we discussed the budget, we adopted a motion on the protection regime and the problems caused by the massive seizure of the special assistance that this entails. We have asked whether alternatives can be sought. I assume the Secretary of State is talking to municipalities about this. I wonder if she can tell us what the situation is and when we will hear more about it. I am also curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at the speech of the Association Eigen Huis in connection with the BKR registration of student debts. After all, you can call it a study advance, saying that it is not a loan and it does not need to be registered with the BKR, but if Association Eigen Huis says that this is going to cause major problems, then this Secretary of State has a responsibility in her responsibility for poverty debts to say to her colleague in Education: yes, I think the Association Eigen Huis has a point and that this has to be registered. I have often talked about the Dutch Association of Banks and the blocking of living accounts. The letter from the end of November states that this would only occur to a very small extent. However, I have received too many signals in the past period, around Christmas and at the beginning of the year, that life bills are being blocked. What is the state of play in consultation with banks? And does the Secretary of State intend to bang the fist on the table? The blocking of living accounts as a means of blackmailing debts cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr Heerma is quite right, of course, that the debt system contributes to the further accumulation of debt among a certain part of the population. Similarly, the withholding tax on health insurance is government policy, which makes the debt grow. Does Mr Heerma share the view that, in addition to the student debt system, we should also look at what are the main causes in other areas of substance, so that we can also work on the causes rather than just managing the consequences? This is also a question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	We have two things to separate from each other. The criticism of Association Eigen Huis is specifically about the loan system and the fact that the debts arising from these loans must be included in the BKR system. Discussions on the causes of debt are held in all general discussions on poverty and debt. We always pay attention to that. I understand that Mrs Karabulut is going to make a proposal to make that even clearer. I would like to assess that proposal on its merits, but I do agree with Mrs Schouten's answer to a similar question: we already do that with every proposal. I am going to look at the proposal openly and honestly, as I do with all the proposals on poverty and debt of the SP, but I still have doubts as to whether this adds anything extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	We can only talk about the technique, and I'm not saying that's unimportant. On the contrary, we have put forward a lot of proposals together over the last few years, of which we are now saying together: Secretary of State, make haste with that! Only, if we continue to look away from the culprits of debt but talk about resolving and preventing debt, we are not honest with ourselves, but certainly not with all those people in the country who write to us because of their problems with high rent, their care costs or their student debt. All I ask is for the causes to be identified fairly, and then for each AO to be discussed again on every subject in substance. This is about preventing and resolving poverty and debt. We owe it to ourselves and to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	I repeat that I am going to look at Mrs Karabulut's proposal. At the source, however, there is always the issue of austerity. We have these discussions very often in budgetary discussions and the examination of individual legislative proposals, which the CDA Group, despite being an opposition party, has supported and not the SP. With these cuts, which aren't always easy, the question is what happens if you don't. However, you cannot include that in such an investigation. We are indeed a party that is very committed to the fact that the government does not spend money that it does not have. That's always part of this. I see Mrs Karabulut laughing, but that is part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mrs. Karabulut, I see you want to interrupt again. However, you have already had a first deadline, and that seems sufficient to me. I call Mrs Koşer Kaya on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. Prevention is better than cure. Today, therefore, I am particularly concerned about the preventive side. There's a world to win. Let me start with the fact that most of the people in weaker socio-economic positions have no network or too limited network to be helped in the front. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could make sure that some sort of buddy system could be created to shape a network. Because if you do that in front, you take a big step and prevent people from getting into debt at all. Earlier, I tabled a motion with Mrs Yücel on a financial window that is very easy to reach. Then people do not have to go to the municipal counter with their entire private life if the problem is already far too big. It would be great if, before a problem arises, people could go to such a financial window if they have financial questions or need help. I know a lot of work has been done in Amersfoort. At the time, the Secretary of State promised to see if such a problem would occur and remedy and, if so, whether it could be rolled out nationwide. I do not know whether there have been any discussions on this matter and what the situation is. What did the Secretary of State do? The SEO study shows that 16% of debtors are late again after four years on a closed credit or care premium. We must also prevent these people from falling back. I think it would be a good idea to see if they need a little extra support. Can we ensure that they get help with the digital system of social security and supplements, which is very complicated, so that relapse is not the issue? How can the Secretary of State prevent this complicated digital system from being an obstacle for these people? Can they be helped individually, or can the system be simplified so that they can operate it themselves? Again, this is one of the biggest problems in relapse. I would like to hear an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	I do not need to explain to Mrs Koşer Kaya that poverty and debt problems are also a problem of division. I want to tell her a fact. In 2010, the income under 10% of the population had debts of around 40 billion. They grew to 58 billion in 2014. The richest 10% had 703 billion in wealth. That has grown to 754 billion. So in the years of crisis, the richest 10% has become 50 billion richer and the poorest 10% has only gained debts. Does Mrs Koşer Kaya share the opinion of the SP Group that we should ask the richest 1% additional capital tax to then redistribute it to those who are under-income?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	I think we all see the problem and the differences and we share that this is a development that is not pleasant for many people. However, I wonder if you can do all this through the tax. I think you need to focus much more on prevention and prevent people from getting into trouble. If they do get into trouble, they must be given the right help and solutions. However, your question is justified. I assume you also asked the Secretary of State. I was in a little later, so I didn't hear your input. I wonder what the Secretary of State has to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	Of course we must prevent that. I have also given a number of examples. Mrs Koşer Kaya will undoubtedly receive e-mails herself. I know that she often comes into the Painters' District and other neighborhoods and hears the stories of people who really take their own responsibility, from here to Tokyo. However, if there is no money and you earn too little or if the benefits are reduced again because we have to cut 50 billion, then the rack is out at some point. With 1% extra tax............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I ask Mrs Koşer Kaya to think about this openly and to support our proposals in this area. I did not ask that question in my first term, but I will certainly ask it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	Did I bring you to this thought? In this connection, I put this question to the Secretary of State through you. It is a complicated problem, but of course our thinking does not stand still. It is important that we look at what is effective in this matter. On that point, Mrs Karabulut finds me by her side. But to discuss a tax system as a whole with her, I do not see the consequences. So I'm waiting for the Minister's answers and I'm sure we'll come back to them at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr. Chairman. The crisis leaves deep tracks. Families are touched and children are not spared. Recent figures show that almost one in five households have to do with risky or problematic debt. We take these figures seriously. At the PvdA's insistence, an additional 100 million has been made structurally available to support municipalities in the fight against poverty. In addition, we have asked for specific attention to be paid to children in these households. I have done so by means of a motion to ensure that municipalities are encouraged to provide child packages to families with minimum levels. We have also reserved extra money for sports. These are a number of examples of things that we have tried to do in this coalition. However, we are far from there. We've been waiting a long time for the government's debt collection vision. Other spokesmen have also pointed this out. They also referred to a moratorium law. This vision is very important for all those households that have fallen into trouble. Due to customization and personal contact at an early stage, towering debts can be avoided at a later stage. That starts with our own government as one of the biggest creditors. The urgency and the need for this vision are repeatedly confirmed by numerous reports. So my question is: when is this vision coming to the Chamber? Can we assume that this will be directly linked to measures aimed at making the public authorities more tailor-made and more quickly contacting them personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	This is a story of analyses, of reflections and of all kinds of things that should be done, but it has been three years since the PvdA took government responsibility and people have just been counting on the PvdA to make itself tough for the people who are in debt. I ask the PvdA spokesperson very specifically: what has changed compared to 2012, thanks to the PvdA's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	My story was indeed about what we did. If Mr Kuzu had given me a little longer time, he would have been able to hear what wishes and ambitions we still have. I can mention a number of other things we've done. This morning, the CBS announced the outcome of the struggle we have waged to spare the people with the lowest incomes and to give them more air, space and money. And what does it turn out to be? With the reform of child schemes, we have been able to meet precisely those objectives in this coalition. I'm proud of that. 10% of the people with the lowest incomes benefit from the reform of child schemes. I'm proud of that. We've made sure more kids can work out. Previously, my colleague Tjeerd van Dekken did so. We have done so again in the last budget debate. I'm proud of that. This Secretary of State is very much in the process, including on the basis of our motion and with the broad support of this Chamber, of encouraging municipalities to provide more child packages. They are facilitated to do so and they are given tools to do so. It is very important for us to help children in poverty and ensure that they can participate equally. I'm proud of that, but are we there? No. I myself believe that we really need to re-examine the whole of the debt policy. Hence our motion, which was also widely supported by this Chamber and which called for a good cost-benefit analysis. After all, we always get signals that this costs more than it brings. At the same time, our own government unintentionally pushes people far too often into problematic debt situations; that is the worst. It can't be. We want that different, and we can do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs Yücel says she is proud of a number of things. I am indeed glad that this has been set in motion. That may well be said, but I am ashamed that, year in, year out, at several times in the year, we get the news that one in five, six or seven people or families is in problematic debt. I have heard a number of proposals from the PvdA spokesperson. I also hear: yes, we have made a social cost-benefit analysis. The specific question is then: what do people in trouble and in debt have to do with a social cost-benefit analysis? Again, it is three years since the PvdA took government responsibility, implying that it would do something for this group. I would just say: Mrs Yücel, PvdA, I am ashamed of these figures and I am not proud of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	I will comment on the substance of Mr Kuzu's interruption. We haven't done that social cost-benefit analysis yet. If Mr Kuzu had followed it all correctly, he would have known. We asked for this at the last budget debate. So that analysis is going to be done. Why? Because I myself and many colleagues in this Chamber see very well, also because of the signals we get out of the field, that we can give budgeting education much better a place in education, that municipalities can work much more preventively and that we can set up our government's collection systems much smarter, so that people do not become unnecessarily in debt. Last week or two weeks ago, for example, there was a proper discussion about the annual public health card. Sometimes young people forget to cancel the O/V year card when they leave school or when their education ends. Then they get a fine of €50. The government or the DUO wants to increase that further, to €300. When people forget something like this because of their own faults, I think they should at least pay it back, but can't we all look for a smarter system? There may be some kind of automation thing that can be linked to it, so that the government can get a picture exactly when someone has dropped out of training and so that the O.V. year card ends. Children and young people will not end up in debt unnecessarily. These are precisely the interventions that could result from such an SME analysis which should lead to a review of our debt policy. What is the state of play with regard to the implementation of the social cost-benefit analysis that we requested in December? When can we expect the first results? And is the Secretary of State prepared to draw the results of this analysis into an integral vision of debt policy, a review? That is what we do from time to time with the tax system. At some point, that system is so rigged up that you don't see the forest through the trees anymore. Our debt policy is in need of revision, is my position. We cannot accept that the debt collection policy of the government, for example, is too often putting people in insoluble debt situations. For example, debtors cannot pay back their debts properly as they should, and this sometimes leads them to fall unnecessarily below the minimum standard of living. We don't want that. Too many people in the Netherlands are in debt. It's hard for people to participate when they're worried if they can still pay the rent and if there's food on the table tonight. The most vulnerable people are pushed further into the swamp; that is a thing indeed. People who are most in need of government are the most vulnerable people and those on low incomes are the most intricate bureaucratic forms we have come up with. I will draw attention to this in any debt debate or poverty debate. It's all got to be simpler. The locally offered, legally compulsory debt relief also does not involve all those who need it. That too could be better. What are the causes of this? Finally, I have two points to make. Because of the decentralisations, we also have district teams everywhere. That is quite right to be closer to those families and households. I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter before. Can the Secretary of State encourage that the adage "one family, one director, one plan" should also be given a place in the way of debt relief and the fight against poverty? My final question concerns the elderly. I ask the Secretary of State to give the Chamber an insight into the spending of the 45 million municipalities that are intended for chronically ill with a tight wallet. They're often elderly. Is that enough for this target group? That is really a question, because older people, especially if they are chronically ill or have structural health care, are unnecessarily burdened. There are jars and facilities for that in itself, but do they reach this target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	There is an interruption by Mrs Karabulut, who is very active today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	That's how you know me, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? I do like a little activity; after all, we're not sitting here for nothing. Mrs. Yücel has a lot of questions and I have one to ask her. How does it explain the fact that the poorest 10% in the Netherlands have gained 20 billion more debts in total 58 billion in debt, while the richest 10% has been added 50 billion in crisis years and has a total capital of 754 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	My explanation is that the economic crisis, with which no one was pleased, has left really deep traces. Especially low-income people have always been the most vulnerable. That is also apparent from the figures. I started my speech with that too. That is why I am very pleased that the measures we have tried to take in this coalition, such as the revision of child schemes, are making people on low incomes progress. That is why I am pleased that this coalition, at least as far as the Labour Party is concerned, is very much focused on a balanced distribution of income in all its policies. That is why our group always makes a very clear assessment: what are the low-income measures, the middle-income measures and the high-income measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	I know the plans. I also know the basics. I follow politics every day. Mrs Yücel cannot seriously believe that the crisis is the only cause of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer? It must be honest about it, and it is clear from all the reports: the fact that more and more people end up in problematic debt and in poverty also has to do with the priceless care and with the increase in rents, including for the elderly. That's the policy of her cabinet, isn't it? Does she not have a little bit of regret with the knowledge of the present that the vast majority of the 50 billion in burdens has hit the poorest very hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	Of course, Mrs Karabulut is right to say that not only does the economic crisis contribute to increasing the debt problem, where that is at issue. It also sometimes has to do with the way we deal with our government bureaucracy or with our national collection method. Sometimes it also has to do with people's spending patterns themselves or with mistakes that we do not know how to solve easily; I mention the early warning. Of course, the Labour Party has an eye for people with high burdens because of the rents and the care costs. I note that we have a system of surcharges for that. I also note that we have given local authorities special assistance or extra help to people with chronic diseases, but that sometimes that money does not end up well with those people either. That is why I continue to ask questions to the Secretary of State and continue to press it, including with this cabinet, to work much more effectively to prevent debt. Mrs Karabulut calls out of the microphone: that is your responsibility. We certainly take responsibility. That is why I stand here every time with a big agenda for preventing poverty and debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	I would ask Mrs Yücel to give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	The Labour Party often talks about the lower income groups, which need to be helped. Only, the Labour Party is the preferred party that ensures that there are very high burdens combined with all kinds of surcharges, money returned to people because life becomes too expensive. The marginal pressure for people in the assistance can even rise to 80% to 90%. If these people go to work, then they will have to deal with a huge poverty trap, because they will lose all kinds of bonuses. This keeps people stuck in those low-income groups. What is the Labour Party doing to finally reduce marginal pressure at the bottom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	We all know that the system of surcharges is a crime, just to say it in my own words. I think more and more people think so. However, there is a discussion on how to revise our tax system so that it all becomes simpler. And indeed, the Labour Party wants to leave the lowest incomes, but also the middle incomes, sufficient to pay the cost of living and everything well. With regard to the relapse, which is there when you come from a benefit situation, and the marginal pressure we always try to make optimal choices. I do not know whether Mr Van Klaveren wants to raise the flat tax with his question. Perhaps, but perhaps he could ask his question a little more concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	My question was very specific. The Labour Party creates a huge marginal pressure at the bottom. She causes people to linger in their income groups, in this case in those of low incomes. My question is: what is the Labour Party doing in concrete terms to ensure that those people at the bottom and in the middle class are left with more money in their pockets? The Labour Party makes and keeps people poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	We have been able to make a tax reduction of 5 billion, with the support of the Chamber. We've made working from a benefit situation more rewarding. I can give you more examples, if this is indeed an answer to Mr Van Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	Well, I've got some more on that last point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	No, Mr Van Klaveren, we're doing interruptions in two. You have received an answer to your question, perhaps not to your satisfaction, but it was an answer. You have the floor now, but as a next speaker and for your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is sighing under enormous burdens and more than 600,000 unemployed. The Netherlands sighs under high care costs, high rents, high municipal taxes, high income tax, high VAT and high excise duties, in many cases also increased by this cabinet. This can lead to a monthly deficit for many people in the country, and even to debts for one in five Dutch households. Left-wing parties will and masse point to the government that we have seen today too, which must intervene and with all kinds of jars and surcharges should compensate for the far too high burden. However, the structural response is to reduce the burden. The answer lies in a drastic reduction in income tax to 23%, with a duty-free foot, which means that many more people are left with much more money in the wallet, especially the lower income groups that are hit very hard by the silly policies of the left. We need to reduce excise duties, reduce corporate tax and make the labour market more flexible. This results in economic growth, purchasing power and jobs. We can do this. Our plans are all neatly calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. As is often the case, our answer is not more, but less government. So stop taking and pumping tax money. Cut into the supplement system. Don't make people with lower incomes dependent on the state. Take the marginal pressure. Facilitate entrepreneurs. Give the people in the country their money back. That is the only structural response to the enormous unemployment and the only structural response to the debt problem. I hope for a substantive response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. Every time I read reports of increasing poverty and debt problems, I feel a sense of frustration. Frustration because you would normally expect that if a cabinet bets on something, results will be achieved and the figures will fall. Then you expect poverty problems to be reduced, fewer children growing up in poverty and the number of people in debt reduced. That is why I would like to use my speaking time today to bring an ode to the Secretary of State, just as the romantic poet John Keats once did to the nightingale. I'll start like John Keats with "My heart hurts." My heart hurts when I see the people in debt. And somewhere in her ministry, the Secretary of State sings her song of solidarity. Oh, help me, ask 800,000 citizens in the country. According to Panteia, more and more people are overwhelmed by their debts. They are sent by the State Secretary to the municipality, where 150,000 of them are sent away from debt relief. Go away, go away, say the Secretary of State and the municipalities. Every year we have a vain debate here. Assistance and debt go hand in hand. People they hunt from the cabinet to the wall in once so rich the Netherlands. Oh, Jellejet, how can you continue to rule? How can you stand up for the vulnerable groups if you let the people in debt die? Adieu, adieu, says the PvdA to its voters. They don't think in people, they think in laws. Food banks will always stay, and otherwise you can live off a vegetable garden. Adieu, adieu, sings Klijnsma while she is almost ruled out. Was it a dream? Or is it reality? Beyond that is the music of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	Your ode does raise a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	Pretty nice to listen to! If it were true, it would be fun. When I look at the facts, I see that government policy has led, for example, to the fact that the benefits of the reform of the child schemes have come to the lowest incomes. The letter states that the CBS reports a decrease in the number of households that are struggling to make ends meet. That number has fallen to the level before the crisis. They're just two examples. I have just given more examples in my interruptions of the commitment we are making and of the progress we are making. I do not understand Mr Kuzu's ode and contribution very well. They don't quite match the facts. Is there any way he could go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	Of course I can respond to that. Mrs Yücel of the PvdA can beat herself on the chest and be proud of what has been achieved. I have just said during my interruption that the child arrangements are very good. We have also voted in favour of this. Of course, we always support good proposals, but Mrs Yücel should not pretend to reduce the poverty problem in the Netherlands and reduce the number of households in debt. It should not pretend to be asking for a national debt collection vision or for an SME analysis here, which will reduce these problems. If some progress has been made, I say very clearly, it has not been because of the cabinet, but because of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	If it is right, we are trying to analyse facts here and, on that basis, to make proposals and to provide input on what we want with our society. I am sticking to the facts and they show progress, also as a result of the efforts made by this cabinet. It was often supported by this Chamber. Is that what we're doing? No. That is why my colleagues and I make very regular proposals and ask questions: how can we do this even more effectively? Now we have listened to Mr Kuzu's beautiful ode. However, I have not heard a single proposal or a single solution. Perhaps Mr Kuzu can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mrs Yücel knows very well what my commitment to this subject has been at the time when she and I were still in the same room, in the same group room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	You're still in the same room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yes. I refer to the time when we were still in the same group room. She knows how I feel about it. I have a minute and a half to speak. I can make proposals for a minute and a half. Mrs Yücel also knows very well that she is now addressing a number of things that I set in motion in the group at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	I see you want to interrupt again, Mrs. Yücel, but you can only interrupt twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, our country has been thoroughly reformed and we have put things in order in public finances. The Netherlands is leaving behind the deepest crisis in decades. We are now seeing an increase in the number of jobs, an uplifting economy and an increase in house sales; the good economic news is building up. The measures were necessary, because the government spent much more than it received, year after year. You can't do that in the government, and you can't do that in people's homes. Everyone's been asked for a sacrifice. Every hardworking Dutchman has felt the pain of the measures that were needed to help our country. In doing so, we have taken account of the capacity. Everyone bears the responsibility to balance their income and expenditure, whether it be the police officer, the teacher or the nurse. These people work hard, pay taxes and premiums and then make choices when spending their money. Of course, if you still have a month left at the end of your money, it doesn't give you a pass to present these people with the account of others. Recently, the taxpayer in Amsterdam was informed about his waste tax. It appeared to have been increased by €56 as a result of the waiver of the waste tax for Amsterdammers with an income at welfare level. You can't explain this, can you? You pay your contributions and taxes in a crooked way and you get another person's account on top of that. Thanks to all the Dutch who pay contributions and taxes, we can maintain an extensive network of social services. We don't want anyone to fall through the ice in this country. Didn't you make it through the welfare and with all the supplements and extra arrangements? Or did you spend too much money and charge the bills? Still, the community is waiting for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	Fortunately, the community does, but the VVD does not; at least not in all cases. Apparently, the VVD cannot explain solidarity. We already knew that, so that's not in itself news. Can the VVD explain that the most wealthy have gained 50 billion in wealth and wealth, while the poorest have gained 30 billion extra debts due to this cabinet policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mrs Karabulut pretends that debt is a problem of division. They're not a divisional issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	Can you explain the numbers I just told you? I would like an answer to my question first. You could have asked me questions in my term, but you didn't. You just sat there or you weren't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	I was there for sure and I listened to your input. You're suggesting that debt is a problem of division, but they're not. This isn't about the distribution of income, it's about how you deal with your housekeeping. This is important both for the government and for the people at home. As I have indicated, there are a lot of people in this country who pay their bills and taxes neatly. What signal do you give with the dependence you advocate of the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	I would ask you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	Okay, Mr. Chairman. What signal does Mrs Karabulut send to the people who pay their taxes and their premiums neatly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	I think our signals are very good. However, I think the VVD has a problem. You lied to the hardworking Dutch by saying that you would give them €1,000. Secondly, the low and middle incomes have deteriorated terribly. You did that because you are dealing with the State's household book in this way, while all the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs. Karabulut. I would also ask you to speak through the President. That makes the debate a little clearer, and that does not mean that you are directly opposed to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	That's necessary from time to time, but I'll respect your rules, Mr. President. The VVD was the one that made the real rich, the super rich, even richer. However, it completely abandons the rest, the middle class and the people with lower incomes. The VVD was the one that caused unemployment. The VVD was the one who raised the rents of the old folks. That is all VVD policy because the VVD is not so much on the side of the hardworking Dutchman as it is much more on the side of the ultra-rich, the banks and the European superstate. That is the VVD and that must be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	The VVD has taken responsibility under difficult circumstances. I have just said that people have been asked a lot of things. But let's see where our economy is now: the signals are happy to be green and the number of jobs is increasing. Look also at the Tax Plan and at a number of other measures taken during this cabinet period. The VVD takes its responsibility: first to put things in order and then, now that things are better, to let most people take advantage of it. Those are the facts; I can't make them any different. This structural dependence on the government, which Mrs Karabulut and the SP Group always argue for, is not a policy that the VVD stands for. I shall continue with my speech, Mr President. So if it really doesn't work out, the community will be there for you, but there's a responsibility to that. People can call on debt relief. It is for emergencies, for people who are no longer able to get out of it because of major setbacks or in exceptional situations. But adversity is not a free pass to live structurally at the expense of another. I just mentioned something like this with the example of the municipality of Amsterdam. For the VVD it is clear: anyone who calls on the community must also take responsibility. Debt relief is a temporary arrangement that allows a person to catch his or her breath, put his or her life in order and possibly find a job, so that he or she can finally start a clean slate after three years. Debt relief can never be income support. We must get rid of the automation that the government, and therefore the taxpayer, solves these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	I call the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen of the Chamber who have contributed to this debate. Especially for the spokesmen and also for the cabinet, the attention and commitment to poverty and debt policies is unabated. I've seen it play on all of them. I am pleased, because we are working together to combat poverty and debt in the Netherlands as much as possible. The cabinet pays an extra 100 million a year for that. Civil society organisations have helped greatly in this regard. Fortunately, I have good contact with these civil society organisations and have regular consultations with them. I can already see Mrs Karabulut running to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	Now that Mrs Karabulut is at the microphone, I would like to raise a point of order and make a proposal to the Chamber. We would have this debate until 4.15 p.m. I have given all the space in the first term, in which Mrs Karabulut has placed eight interruptions. That's okay, I've given the room for that, but I'd like to get the Secretary of State to finish her story first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. You will also have an opportunity for a second term; I am extremely flexible today. I am trying to get the debate in order, but without too much delay, because there will still be rulers next, and that has been taken into account in the time slots. I ask for your understanding of this and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	I am also trying to reply as briefly as possible, although I would, of course, like to deal fully with all the honourable Members. Like I said, I have regular meetings. In addition to the VNG I also see them sitting in the gallery, several aldermen participate, like the Kinderombudsman, the Social Alliance, Food Banks Netherlands, Stichting Leergeld, the Youth Sports Fund, the Youth Culture Fund, foundation Kinderhulp, Stichting Jarige Job, Resto VanHarte, Humanitas, Kerk in Actie, het Leger des Heils, de NVVK en Nibud. I also see representatives of the NVVK sitting in the gallery. In addition, there are many parties I speak and support along other ways, because we have a subsidy scheme, including for projects of Refugee Work, the Stichting Urgente Noden and the association SchuldHelpMaatje. Important steps have been taken in addressing debt issues. The result of measures initiated by the cabinet is now becoming apparent. We're not here yet, but it's a matter of re-packing. It is an important milestone that, as of 1 January, all bailiffs are obliged to be connected to the attachment register. That is an important improvement, because it is about protecting the unhindered foot. I have sent the House a general note on this, because we would, of course, like to simplify that unhindered foot. I look forward to the AO on April 6th, where we will discuss this in order. I would like to further develop this proposal and aim to present the necessary legislation to the Chamber as soon as possible. Within two months, Mrs Schouten and Mr Heerma asked me to offer the necessary legislation for the broad legal moratorium for internet consultation, and then I would like it to land with the Chamber as soon as possible. With both spokesmen, I believe that we really must do everything we can to ensure that both Chambers have accepted this moratorium before 1 January. The evaluation of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act I would like to send to both Chambers before 1 July, as I have planned. The evaluation shall also address access to debt relief. We have, of course, talked about this before. Mrs Jungmann, lecturer at the Utrecht University of Applied Sciences and expert in the field of debt relief, also regularly says that not everyone would be welcome in municipalities and that municipalities would exclude people categorically. Let me make it quite clear once again: the law does not allow that. I also told Mrs Jungmann that I really want names and numbers of municipalities that would not do this well, because then they are in breach of the law. So I'd like to hear the names. Mrs Yücel referred to the evaluation for the summer. At an earlier stage, we have already exchanged views that the social cost-benefit analysis will take shape on the basis of this evaluation. Mrs Yücel also asked whether a follow-up study would then be possible. If a follow-up to the inspection is necessary, I'm not against it. I would also like to emphasise that, within the framework of the EU Presidency, I have put the integrated approach to poverty as a priority. We see across Europe that poverty has grown in recent years as a result of the economic crisis. In the context of Europe, too, we are now in the process of putting together a number of Council conclusions so that we can tackle poverty and social exclusion more effectively together. Indeed, there are still too many people with late payments and debts. As has been said, the crisis has played a major role in this. At the same time, however, I believe that we must recognise the points of light that have flourished at the end. With government measures over 90% of households are improving purchasing power this year. It does mean that we have to stick to that for the best result. Then I'd like to zoom in on purchasing power. Mr Krol has called for very specific attention to be paid to poverty among 55+ and non-Western immigrants. Unemployed over 60 can now benefit from the IOW which entitles you to a benefit after the WW up to the AOW age. Of course, that's a big good. I think Mr Krol also knows that Minister Asscher is working with employers and employees on an action plan to further reduce unemployment among over 50 people. He has promised the Chamber that this will be ready in the spring. I imagine that he will make known the name and number of the ambassador in question. The median purchasing power development for all is 1.8%. This year, older people and beneficiaries will increase their purchasing power by 0.7%. I think it's good to report this. Families with children are given extra support by increasing the child-related budget and by increasing child benefit, childcare allowance and income-dependent combination discount. Mrs Yücel asked for an insight into the use of the 45 million municipalities now receiving in connection with the abolition of the chronically ill and disabled (WTCG) Act. I know that in the third progress report Reform of the long-term care that VWS' colleagues have prepared, this has been provided with insight. Municipalities now have the funds released structurally on their budget. So that's 45 million in 2014, rising to 268 million structuralally from 2017. Municipalities use them in different ways, of course. Almost all municipalities have used the means to extend collective insurance for minimum and chronically ill. In addition, funds have been deployed in the form of separate specific financial arrangements for special and necessary costs to reduce own contributions to customised services and/or increase special assistance. Yesterday, at her request, I sent a letter to the Chamber in which I showed once again how, in terms of percentages, that point of turn is indeed being discussed. The CPB shows that we have passed through the deepest valleys. The CBS also provides insights into this. Let me say it very carefully: there is light at the end of the tunnel and you will understand that I find that very pleasant. I would like to comment on municipal debt relief, on which a number of questions have been asked. I've already said a few things about that. I would like to say to Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mr Krol that I am greatly encouraging prevention. Municipalities help each other to exchange best practices well. I say to Mrs Koşer Kaya that I have already informed the Chamber that I have travelled to Amersfoort. I have now drawn attention to the example of the cash counter in Amersfoort in the collection letter to all the municipalities. In this respect, I have done what Mrs Koşer Kaya has said in close consultation with Mrs Yücel in a VAO. I hope that's what a lot of municipalities are doing. For Amersfoort it was indeed an excellent idea. Each municipality of course has its own methodology. I have an addition to that prevention and early warning. It is, of course, extremely important to prevent people from getting into debt. We do this by stimulating financial education, for example by providing subsidies to civil society organisations and organising an activity in the Week of Money. Municipalities and other parties are supported to arrive at early identification of poverty and debt issues. They exchange good examples. We are, of course, very busy with Mrs Yücel's question in order to set up integrated work around the district teams in such a way that debt relief is inextricably linked to this. For a very large part, that's already the case. When families get into trouble, they are almost immediately also financial problems. So that's where you're gonna have to start. Mr Krol asked how many municipalities provide debt relief tozzp'ers and ex-zzp'ers. Mr Krol has a point that is a decentralised policy. Rotterdam, Amersfoort and Lelystad, among others, are already doing a lot about this. They have also provided us with these examples. We're gonna get rid of them again. Of course, it is always the case that the Decision provides assistance to the self-employed (Bbz) in any case. Actually, that's what all the municipalities are doing. The same applies, of course, to 50-plussers. Mr Heerma asked, in close consultation with Mrs Schouten, for the protection regime. They have, of course, already paid attention to this in previous debates. What exactly is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion? I have had discussions with canton judges, the professional board of directors, Divosa and the VNG, and in the ongoing investigation into the protection regime, additional research questions have been included so as to give a better picture of the alternatives offered by municipalities. We have, of course, also taken this into account in the debate. I intend to send the results of this inquiry to the Chamber in May. In fact, all the spokesmen have brought forward the national collection. I just told you we're working on the batter-free foot. This is, of course, also a very important instrument for the Empire. I intend to have the national debt collection vision landed at the Chamber at least for the next AO. The desire in the Chamber to make that list of preferred creditors clear will be borne in mind. An annex to the national debt collection vision seems to me to be clear. Mrs Schouten asked whether we are going to ensure that the CJIB adheres to current routes. Yes, as from 1 January last year, traffic fines, CJIB fines, may also be included in a friendly debt settlement and may also be partially waived. My colleague Dijkhoff informed the Chamber of this in a recent letter. I come to the late payments and the debts. Mr Heerma asked me how I deal with the banks. The Chamber knows that from time to time I talk to the banks about how they deal with debt relief. Mr Heerma has already called for attention to be paid to living accounts. How do banks deal with blocking in that context? During my last conversation with the banks, I brought this to the attention of the House once again. The banks have reported to me that this is hardly anymore. I would ask Mr Heerma to add a little colour to this in his second term. It's two-and-a-half. Perhaps the banks are not quite telling me what is really going on and Mr Heerma can tell me with his name and back number which bank I should specifically take on board. I very much agree with Mr Heerma that these living accounts simply should not be blocked. Mr Krol asked about the exploration of government debt forgiveness and takeover. This is something that the municipal debt relief already has at its disposal. I believe that this question is in line with Mrs Yücel's motion on the social cost-benefit analysis. I'd like to involve him in that. I would like to place this SME within the broader framework of all measures and we will do so then. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked how we can help people who are stuck in the digital system. That may indeed be an obstacle. I didn't just mention the debt help buddies for nothing, but you also see a lot of other volunteers helping people to see the forest again through the trees. Furthermore, municipalities go hand in hand with the team through their very short lines with many voluntary organisations. I agree with Mrs Koşer Kaya that personal contact is sometimes really necessary, because people who really do not always master digital skills. Mrs Schouten and Mr Heerma asked about the BKR registration and the DUO debts. Of course, student debt is not a credit as such. Of course, banks are obliged to understand and understand the financial position of the applicant from the obligation of care of banks. The applicant shall, in turn, be required to provide information. He can simply turn out an overview from My DUO and send it to the bank. I know that OCW's colleague is not in favour of registration, but if the two members of the Chamber would like to raise this again in a debate with that colleague, that is of course always possible. I have already discussed the integrated approach around the district teams. I think I have come to the end of my speech. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Kuzu that I appreciated his poem for its form but, of course, I cannot fully share the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mrs Karabulut has another question. I can imagine that several Members would like to ask another question. I thank them for being willing not to interrupt the Secretary of State in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	There was also little to interrupt, because the Secretary of State has appointed her technique and progress. She has given little or no answer to the political questions I have put to her. I would like the Secretary of State not only to tell the jubilee story that goes so well, but also to comment on Mrs Van Stokhum's example. This woman is lying to her children that she ate! Does the Secretary of State still think it is going so well in the Netherlands? I would also like to get a response from the Secretary of State to the fact that one in five Dutch people has now built up problematic debts. That is 20%, but less than 3% of them are being helped. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	In my story, I said that although there is a light at the end of the tunnel because the figures do not show any further growth, it is of course also very difficult to live in poverty and in debt. Therefore, it is essential that debt relief is given as much backup as possible. I have indicated that the governments do so, the government and the municipal authorities, but also the water boards do so by providing forgiveness. Those authorities are helped by many institutions and bodies that are also trying to lift these people up. I did not say at all that is simply not so much that we would no longer need the debt. That is absolutely not the case. All I have said is that I am happy to see that the number of people in debt is no longer growing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	That is wrong! We can only see the number of people living in debt and poverty growing, including in recent years, unless the Secretary of State has new figures that she has not yet presented to us. Moreover, the Secretary of State does not respond to Mrs Van Stokhum's example. There are still a lot of people like Mrs Van Stokhum, people who simply cannot buy food in this rich country and have to lie to their children! What the hell are they doing? Does the Secretary of State at least recognise that it has something to do with the policy of this cabinet? Is the Secretary of State prepared to be honest about this and then to come up with solutions instead of just talking about the technique and not going into the content? And what objective does the Secretary of State have in the European field? It says that debt and poverty in Europe are only growing. Quite awesome, because the European Heads of Government are working only for a small top of ultra-rich people, while the people are allowed to pay the bill. What is the objective of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thanks to the economic crisis, not only the people with the lowest incomes, but all people have stepped back. That's true. Thanks to this economic crisis, people have fallen so low that they have fallen into debt. That's true, too. We are now all helping to lift people up as quickly as possible. The same applies to all cases referred to by Mrs Karabulut. I also know a lot of people who really are not broad, and then I express myself euphemistically, but the cabinet has tried to provide the lowest income relief as well. This year alone we saw the €56 care allowance for single people and €140 for married couples increase. The child-related budget and child benefit have been increased. Charges have been reduced by higher labour discounts. The lowest incomes have also really improved. This cabinet is doing everything it can to get everyone to take advantage of the fact that we are now getting a little bit more breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	I had another question about the CJIB. It is good news that on 1 January the CJIB will be able to respect the friendly path and possibly to forgive, but it is allowed. Until yesterday I received messages from people who had agreed with great pain and difficulty a journey that was then crossed by the CJIB. That may also be because those debts were before 1 January, but can the Secretary of State guarantee that the CJIB will actually take this into account? Can she promise that it will not only be allowed, but that it will also happen and that agreed routes will not get in the way of the CJIB?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	I would like to give two answers to that. Firstly, I will ask Mr Dijkhoff to stress once again to the CJIB that it must actually implement what has now been invented. I have no reason to believe that they would not do so from 1 January, but well, frappez toujours! Repeating the message is never wrong. Secondly, the batter-free foot must also be maintained by the public pursers. We know that sometimes that leaves something to be desired. That is something I keep underlining. That is why I would like to simplify the batter-free foot so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	Can the Secretary of State for the next general consultation, I believe, confirm in writing on 6 April that the CJIB will also take into account the fines imposed before 1 January and not yet paid, if a route is now agreed? The practice must now become real that trajectories do not fail because the CJIB crosses them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	I am going to light my light on that and write down what I can find out about it, including my colleague in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	I have a very short question. The Secretary of State asked to give her names and numbers if we had them. I'd like to offer her a case like this through the messenger. I don't like calling these things public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	I would like to continue with the answers given by the Minister in relation to the social cost-benefit analysis, just to clarify. There will of course be evaluations around the summer. Apparently, that's what the Secretary of State is waiting for. I can see that in itself. The request in the motion is indeed to carry out an all-inclusive cost analysis on top of all the measures that have already been launched. I heard the Secretary of State say that there could be a follow-up investigation. That was expressly not the intention of the motion. Once we have done that analysis and that leads to recommendations, this leads me to an improved and more effective debt relief policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mrs. Yücel, I'm interrupting you, and you're making a statement here. You have a second term or motions for that. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	My question is whether the intention of this motion is clear to the Secretary of State. I am not asking for this social cost-benefit analysis to be carried out in order to carry out a new analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	I wanted to be Mrs Yücel for her sake. It's of course en-and. There will be an evaluation first, as I promised the Chamber. He'll be here before 1 July, right on time. Then, of course, we'll look at that analysis. The recommendations from both the evaluation and the analysis I present here and then we look at what we do with them in the follow-up. Of course, it may well be that the evaluation or analysis shows that the inspection at different municipalities could and I am not confused by a thermometer. So it's real
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	I have two brief questions for the Secretary of State. I hear the Secretary of State talking about tackling poverty. Does she agree with the VVD Group that the best approach to poverty is a job, job? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I shall put my second question equally. The Secretary of State is talking about taking over debts, again just now in the debate with Mrs Yücel on the cost-benefit analysis. Can she explain to me what her answer is to all people, people on high or low incomes, who always pay their bills neatly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	My answer to Mrs Lodder's first question is that I think that is as clear as glass. If you get a job, especially an indefinite job with a fixed contract, that's a great route out of poverty. But there has to be a job. We have found that in recent years these jobs were not exactly for bragging, and then I express myself euphemistically again. Many people have also lost their jobs because of the financial crisis and have had to put tears on their nerves, which was certainly not easy. It could have happened to all of us. I think Mrs Lodders and I disagree on the second. That also makes sense, because we come from two different denominations in terms of ideals. I do not think it is wrong at all that, on the basis of solidarity from people who deserve it, you should ask for a contribution to be made to the standard of living, so that you really raise taxes and contributions to the standard of living, and that you look at whether you can help people who have very little money, even with forgiveness. Of course, the people with the thicker wallets will contribute to that. However, I find that I do not have a lot of problems with that, and then I express myself carefully again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	We agree on these jobs. They weren't for picking up. Fortunately, we are seeing more and more jobs. We are also working on this government's commitment to ensure that these jobs are created. I think we still have a number of steps to take there, especially towards all employers who are careful about hiring people because of all the risks. However, that is another debate. We're not gonna feed that here. But that is another debate and we are not going to have it here. When it comes to taking over debts, the VVD Group believes that a family faced with sudden accumulation of unforeseen events should be helped. In her view, it cannot be the case that people who do not manage to balance their income and expenditure and make use of all kinds of facilities over and over again are billing other people. I hope the Secretary of State agrees with her. I mentioned the example from Amsterdam. You get the bill presented for people who have low incomes. That can't be the case, can it? What does the Secretary of State say to people who have to pay €56 in such an account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	Of course, you can never merge that one-on-one. We also see, of course, that the taxpayer provides funds for people's allowances or remissions. I also think it is very good that the people who have much more to spend in our society help people who cannot do enough. We put the supplements on it. From my background, I find that not so much wrong with that. Of course, you have to try to get everyone through life, including people with ultra-small wallets. Edoch, Mrs Lodders rightly mentions the people who, over and over and over again, make use of their resources and then again and again in debt relief, that is another chapter of the report. They just put the flowers out and say, "Help me again." Of course, that will come to an end at some point. In the evaluation, we'll see what that means to those people. With the principle that one contributes a little to the other's life is not so wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'd like to go over the blocking of these living bills. I indicated earlier in AO's that the case referred to me mainly concerns ABN AMRO and Lindorff, the bank's household collection agency. I also read in the letter from the Secretary of State that banks themselves state that there are very few cases involved. Now you can disagree on what's very small. As I have done before, I will pass on to the department the cases that I am referred to, so that the Secretary of State can extrapolate whether this is all cases and whether it is very small or likely to occur more frequently. Banks rely on the right of netting and thus establish themselves as a very preferred creditor. The Secretary of State also indicates that. I don't think that should or shouldn't be possible. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to increase the pressure again on the basis of the cases I am being put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The Dutch Association of Banks has really informed me that she too strongly disagrees with the blocking of these accounts. She didn't tell her members that once, but more than once. That is why I am pleased if Mr Heerma really wants to send me the names and numbers, no matter how strange that sounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	This put an end to the first deadline. The question is whether there is a need for a second deadline. That seems to be the case. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State often says: then I still express myself euphemistically. Yeah, she does that all the time. She represents things more beautiful than they are. I did not get an answer to the question of how successful it is that the lower 10%, i.e. those with the lowest incomes, received 20 billion in debt, while the richest 10% in the crisis built up 50 billion in capital. She doesn't answer that. It cannot do that either, because then it becomes clear that a policy of impoverishment is being pursued here, which makes the rich richer and the poor poorer. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of households in debt continues to grow;]] [[calls on the government to clarify the extent to which policies contribute to the emergence of problematic household debt and to come forward with proposals to address the cause of problematic debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-327]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. As far as preferential creditors are concerned, I want not only a list but also an answer to the question of how they relate to each other and whether we should improve it. I would like the Secretary of State to include this in her letter. On the legal moratorium, I note that there will be an Internet consultation in two months' time, while the Secretary of State said it would be dealt with in the Council of Ministers before Christmas. I think that's a little late. Can't we go any faster? Finally, I will table the next motion, because the answers to the BKR registration were very disappointing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people who buy a home may later find it difficult to pay their mortgage as student debts out of the picture;]] [[Whereas, moreover, there is an unfair difference in the possibilities in the buying market between young people who do and young people who do not report their study debts;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which study debts of young people can be made understandable and what measures are needed to strengthen the position of young people in the (buy) housing market;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the many questions. I'll file the next four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a higher risk of poverty for population groups may lead to more social problems and less participation in society;]] [[invites the government to promote the prevention and combating of poverty among 55- to 65-year-olds, non-Western immigrants, single-parent families and children as spearheads in municipal poverty and debt policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to carry out a brief review of whether and, if so, to what extent the government's cancellation of debt and takeover of debt at low interest rates can contribute to reducing the high social costs of debt restructuring and to the action perspective of people with problematic debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the CBS, the risk of long-term poverty is highest between 55 and 65 years;]] [[Whereas the employment prospects of 55 to 65-year-olds are currently very low;]] [[invites the government to come forward rapidly with concrete proposals to strengthen the working perspective of older people;]] [[invites the Government to make proposals to maintain and improve the income situation of unemployed elderly people, in order to prevent a fall in poverty;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas according to the CBS, the risk of long-term poverty is highest between 55 and 65 years;]] [[Whereas the employment prospects of 55 to 65-year-olds are currently very low;]] [[invites the Government to reduce the age limit for the mobility bonus and the no-risk policy for employers to 50 years;]] [[invites the Government to maintain the IOW and IOAW as long as the employment prospects of 55 to 65-year-olds, certainly from the assistance, are very low,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-329]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-330]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-331]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	Mr. Chairman. It was once again an extremely classic debate on poverty and debt relief policies. Unfortunately, it's not going down yet. In April we have a general discussion in which we will have a detailed discussion on this matter. I will certainly come back to the complex ICT systems as well as other problems that do indeed play a role at the moment, including prevention. If necessary, I will also table motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mrs Koşer Kaya. Mrs Yücel has waived her term, just like Mr Van Klaveren. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Chairman. Assistance and debt go hand in hand. Over the last few days we have been able to hear about this in the media. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that household debt is a persistent problem that is on the political agenda every year;]] [[whereas people in debt tend to live a life of stress and misery;]] [[Whereas every human being has talents;]] [[calls on the government to give municipalities a financial incentive to help people who are long-term in the assistance to work;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	If Mrs Yücel of the PvdA is really serious, she also supports this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr. Chairman. It is everyone's own responsibility to balance their income and expenditure. That goes for the government, but also for the people at home. The heart of this debate is that we are doing a lot to help people. We have the assistance, we have arrangements, we have surcharges and we have a safety net in case people are really upset, because that can happen to anyone. But a safety net must never involve a structural dependence on government and taxpayers. You can't and you can't present the account to people who pay their bills, taxes and premiums neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	Is the Secretary of State able to comment on the motions? That's the case. Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mr. Chairman. I will, indeed, comment briefly on the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 327 by Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Koşer Kaya. I have indicated that we are evaluating the Wgs, the Municipal Debt Aid Act. The Court shall receive that evaluation before 1 July. Of course, the SMEA, I would almost say 'from Mrs Yücel', is mentioned. This motion is therefore superfluous. That's why I'm dissuading her. In the motion in part No. 328 by Mrs Schouten, the government is asked to examine how to make student loans accessible to young people so that their position on the housing market can be strengthened. This, of course, respects colleagues Bussemaker and Blok. So I have to formally discourage the motion. Materially, I could say that perhaps the petitioner can hold the motion so I can probe both colleagues for a moment. I'll come to the motion in part No. Mr Krol called on the government to promote the prevention and combating of poverty among 55 to 65-year-olds, non-Western immigrants and single-parent families, as a priority of municipal poverty and debt policies. Children have also been added to this. I've always put the emphasis on the children. I understand Mr Krol in such a way that he also says 'yes' to that. I would like to repeat in a collection letter that these groups, of course, sometimes also live in rather difficult financial conditions. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 330, which has also been submitted by Mr Krol, is requested for the cancellation and takeover of debts by the public authorities. That question is entirely in line with Mrs Yücel's motion on the social cost-benefit analysis. I would like to include this motion. I would like to see whether there can be some relief at this point. If I can really use her as an investigative motion, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 331 by Mr Krol, the government is invited to make proposals to maintain and improve the income situation of the long-term unemployed elderly. I do not recommend this motion, because the letter from Minister Asscher of 30 November last states that he is working with the social partners to draw up an action plan to tackle long-term unemployment of 50+. This action plan will contain concrete measures. I have already said that this plan will be ready in the spring. I propose that we wait for the action plan and the motion on item No. Not to be adopted. In Mr Krol's fourth motion, the motion in part No. 332, the government is invited to maintain the IOW and the IOAW as long as the employment perspective of 55 to 65-year-olds is very low. I also advise against this motion, because this motion is also in the context of the action plan I have just mentioned. I propose to the author of the motion to wait until the action plan has been published. This was my response to the six motions filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	There is another motion by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	Excuse me. In the motion in part No. 333 calls on Mr Kuzu to give the government a financial incentive to municipalities to help people who are long-term in the assistance to work. The government has given the municipalities a financial incentive. We do this every year, in the context of the 100 million structural funds that we send to the municipalities to combat poverty. We do not give the municipalities an additional financial incentive in this respect, except for an additional financial incentive for the sport for children. That is why the Chamber voted in favour of the budget. We do, of course, have the resources available to help the long-term unemployed, but we do not make any additional resources available. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 333.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr Krol was first on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	I would like to reassure everyone as far as the motion in part number is concerned. Article 332 of the EEC Treaty. I can live entirely with the Secretary of State's explanation. In the meantime, I can inform you that Mrs Yücel will sign the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	What does the Secretary of State think about the fact that more and more signals have recently been coming out about municipalities that are only a short while away from welfare and that they are doing very little or almost nothing for people who are on long-term assistance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	The municipalities are busy to provide tailor-made services, including in the context of the Participation Act, for all people in the assistance, long-term and short-term. This means that for people who have been on welfare for a very long time and have all kinds of problems, addiction, mental problems, don't call it immediate and immediately paid work, because that is of course very difficult. However, they try to excite those people to get back in the game. I know that this has been widely discussed in the press in recent times, but, fortunately, municipalities have their welfare recipients more and more in their sights. "Happy" because that's been a little less for a while. In addition, the motion in part No. 333 the nature of an amendment. That's why I have to discourage motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	Some of the motions are directional. In any case, it is a good thing that the Secretary of State did not miss the fact that there have been a lot of municipalities in recent times that have not picked up on this particular issue. I ask the Secretary of State if she really believes that by enthusiasts of people who are on long-term assistance, municipalities can help these people to work. That is the answer given by the Secretary of State. However, I do not think that we can manage with enthusiasm alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	I didn't just say that municipalities excite the people in welfare. I also analyzed which groups could be involved. Mr Kuzu and I do know these groups. We know that employers are not immediately eager to give these groups a place in their business. Before that, there is a long way to go to get people to do so. I notice that municipalities are more and more committed to these people. Fortunately, because in the past they used to think simple: we leave this group of people for what it is, then we focus on those who can easily lead us to the labour market. I believe that Mr Kuzu and I do not disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and commenting on the motions. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
