ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the government for answering our questions. That does not mean, moreover, that in the rush with which the answers have been made, they lead to our full satisfaction. It should be known: as a CDA group, we were never in favour of the referendum law. We now see that this instrument often requires us to deal with laws in this house under steam, where more discussion with the government and reflection on the advantages and disadvantages of legislation might have taken us further. That was a comment aside. The country-of-home principle in the export of social security benefits is before my time in this house and I accept it as a fact. This principle, which also applies to exports to third countries, was also accepted by the CDA Group in this House when we approved Law 33162. That law introduces an export restriction for a number of social security laws. Our spokesperson, my colleague Wopke Hoekstra, had a lot of questions back then. He was the one who asked the question in the course of examining this bill as to what the termination of this treaty would mean. I'm quoting him literally. "To mention any country, Morocco, what are the rights and research opportunities lost for the Netherlands at that time and what is the assessment of the financial damage? If you look beyond the possible follow-up damage on the Minister's file, how should you weigh the wider interest of the Dutch state if you decide to terminate such a contract? What are the consequences for the State, so beyond the immediate reach of this minister's portfolio?" The outcome of the negotiations with Morocco, which has been achieved after long and intensive consultation of Dutch diplomats in Morocco with the authorities there, is, may I say, the outcome of the negotiations with Morocco? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Therefore, if we cooperate today, as requested by the government, to terminate the agreement with Morocco, there will be no new exports of social security benefits: no child benefit, no WKB, no Anw, WAO, WIA, WAZ and not the Supplementary Act. However, the AOW remains at 50% and benefits that have been started are also maintained. In fact, the export of child benefit and the child-related budget by Dutch standards has been struggling for some time in our society. If I see correctly in the government's replies, an amount of 3.3 million in family allowances was exported from the Netherlands to Morocco in 2015. The wire transfer's gonna stop anyway. This will be done either in 2021 with a joint Netherlands-Morocco agreement, or in 2017 when we cancel the treaty. With the termination of the Convention in 2017, the influx of 150 children per year will be stopped. I'm just gonna put it this way. However, rights entered will remain in force for almost 18 years. I note, moreover, that we in Europe are not the only ones who apply different amounts of family allowances to the allowances we grant in their own country, as measured by the cost of living. Is total child benefit exports stopped in the neighbouring countries, as we do? There are people, such as those across the street, who think it is possible to apply the principle of housing within the European Union, but I would like to say that this cannot be done. This is based on Article 48 of the Treaty of the European Union and on Regulation 883. If I read it correctly, we will save EUR 40 million in structural terms with the termination of the treaty. That is not little, and for a lot of people it is even a very large amount. What we do not take into account is that we lose in other areas. When I look at the savings involved in the termination of the treaty, I come up with the Government's replies to €300,000 for child benefit, to 1 million for the ANW and to 0.3 million for the AOW. Moreover, the latter amount gradually rises to 5.5 million because the supplement to the AOW received by single people is no longer exported. In the government's replies, I also read that for 2014, 2015 and 2016, together, the benefits would have been 14 million lower if the export ban legislation had been in force immediately for Morocco. So we do not count on the costs of non-cooperation in controls because the Moroccan authorities are no longer in a position to do so, as they have already said. I am referring, for example, to the power test. However, if we go along with the government's intention to terminate, then there is also a new phenomenon, namely the EU association agreement with Morocco. The social protocol, to put it that way, is ready. The government doesn't want to get rid of that protocol. However, the consequence of that protocol is that a very large part of the benefits that we are stopping now, if we cancel now and the cancellation starts on 1 January 2017, will be resurrected. They're not all resurrected. Except for family allowances and the child-related budget. We received a fair answer from the government: the termination of the agreement with Morocco and the legal proceedings of the social protocol lead to the revival of the rights to survivor's and disability benefits; moreover, it will lead to an increase in the AOW from 50% to 70%. The government estimates that this will cost EUR 17,5 million of the planned savings of EUR 40 million. The 40 million cut is therefore of very short duration. As I said, there was a very good result of the negotiations with Morocco in September. However, it should not continue because at the last minute Morocco also wanted the Western Sahara under the agreement. International commitments on the non-recognition of Western Sahara have resulted in that agreement not being allowed to go through in concept, according to the government. The knife was pulled. The recognition of Western Sahara as a legitimate Moroccan territory is not in line with international rules, but if I do, the EU association agreement with Morocco also applies to the whole area of the Kingdom of Morocco. It's just not so written down. Why can't the Netherlands do what Europe can with the association agreement by not writing it down? Is the information on the state of play up-to-date? Does the government still believe that this agreement will enter into force soon? If I am well informed by the Brussels circuit, the Minister may correct me, then on 10 December the protocol on agriculture was cancelled by the General Court's conclusion. This does not, however, concern the addition of Western Sahara. I conclude from the Court ruling that there is no prohibition, either by international law or by EU law, to extend an agreement with Morocco to Western Sahara. However, certain conditions must be respected. That is what happens with the protocol on agriculture. There must be no disadvantage for the people there. If I understand correctly, there will also be an urgent procedure on the agricultural protocol, which is also about the fisheries protocol, in order to comply with the agreements requested by the Court of Justice in the ruling. Why did the Netherlands not follow this example? Why are we so fundamental and are we so testing good relations with a country like Morocco? I only have to refer to the answers given by the government to questions concerning cooperation on the readmission of foreign nationals, judicial cooperation and the verification of the accuracy of benefits and the assessment of assets. We can forget these things if we accept this legislation and thus end cooperation with Morocco. The Netherlands and Morocco have common interests. It is for our first name, but also for the EU the region is of strategic importance. Can the Minister convince us that the financial importance of a saving of 17.5 million is of greater structural value than geopolitical stability in this region? If we were to say 'yes' to this law of termination today, the Minister would have until 1 July to negotiate with Morocco. That's what he'd do with a firmer backrest. Is it possible, therefore, to reach that fine, previously negotiated agreement? There are not only financial interests but also other interests involved. If the Minister gives an adequate answer to our questions and also gives us a reflection that convinces us of the benefits of a cancellation now, with all the diplomatic consequences of that, such as in the area of justice, the readmission agreement, the control of exports of benefits and not to mention the revival at any time in the near future of the benefits abolished on 1 January 2017, then the CDA Group will then determine its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u3	In 2009, the then Minister for Social Affairs Donner stated that he was not in favour of limiting or ending the export of child benefit. In his opinion, child benefit was intended to cover the costs incurred by parents living in the Netherlands for the care of their children. This reduces the differences between the costs of people who do not have children and who do have children. At the time, Donner had the view that the export of child benefit should not be stopped. I heard Mrs Oomen particularly about the considerations and the advantages and disadvantages, but what is her group's position of principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u4	I am dealing with legislation that has been adopted. I do not need to repeat the discussions that have been taking place since the 1980s on the export of child benefit. I note that there has been a slight change of opinion in our society at the moment. Nor do I think it is right for us, with such a high export price called child benefit, to allow families or even to encourage families to have children without parents living in Morocco. The fact that we are looking at what is needed in Moroccan society is therefore important at the present time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u5	Again. I was concerned with Mr Donner's position of principle at the time. It was not about the country of residence principle, but about the non-exportation of child benefit. Minister Donner said that we should not distinguish between costs incurred by parents and costs incurred by people without children if they both live in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u6	I could and should reply to Mrs Strik that this position is over thanks to the legislation that has also been accepted in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u7	So you do not have a position of principle on this at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u8	We take the basic view that certain legislation is simply accepted, including in the Upper Chamber. That's no use to me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber almost four years ago adopted the Land Law principle in social security. The Christian Union Group has supported this law. As is well known, the country of residence principle means that the level of benefit for countries outside the European Union is aligned with the cost level of the country where the person concerned or the child resides. That seemed and seems to us to be reasonable and acceptable. I will not repeat our arguments for this, because we have passed this stage in the debate. The application of the Housing Land Law implied the adaptation of all kinds of bilateral social security agreements. Our highest court found that the law was contrary to the treaty with Morocco. However, negotiations with Morocco, which took up to five years, did not lead to the desired result. The meeting was terminated. In the light of this, the Lower House asked the government, through the approved motion Schut-Welkkenn/Dijkgraaf, to submit a legislative proposal to terminate the treaty with Morocco. The Christian Union Group in the House of Representatives supported this motion. This bill, passed by the House of Representatives, is before us today. The unilateral withdrawal of a bilateral treaty is not a minor issue. A treaty is not just a declaration, especially with a country with which so many countrymen are connected. This is a sensitive issue. My group therefore regrets that it has had to come to this. An agreement seemed to be within reach, as the Minister did in his letters of 29 September and 23 November last. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, A few weeks later, however, the dream sprang because Morocco suddenly demanded that exports of social security benefits should be extended to Western Sahara. The Netherlands was rightly unable to meet this requirement, because under international law this area does not belong to the territory of Morocco and therefore Morocco does not have the power to enter into treaty obligations on behalf of the Western Sahara. It's a de facto occupied area. It is therefore an unacceptable demand, also in view of the statements of the United Nations and the International Court of Justice on Western Sahara. Moreover, this requirement was introduced at a time when an agreement was in the pipeline. I understand from the statements made by the Minister in the Lower House that even the signatures had already been signed. My group can therefore feel that the Netherlands ended the negotiations on this dossier and paved the way for the termination of the bilateral agreement with Morocco. For my group, it is crucial to know whether the process has been properly conducted in the run-up to the present withdrawal proposal. Has the government really done everything to make the negotiations with the Moroccan Government a success? For the answer to that question, the Christian Union Group asked the government in the written round of questions for a brief reconstruction of, in particular, the final stage of the negotiation process, in which the break-up point around Western Sahara appeared unexpectedly on the Moroccan side. If we add this reconstruction to the overview of the negotiation process, which is included in the memo following the report of 8 May 2015, the Minister's letter to the Chamber of 15 December 2015. and the report of the written consultation held on 13 January, my group concludes that the Netherlands has conducted these negotiations correctly. It can also be inferred from this reconstruction that the Netherlands, I quote, has offered'soothing measures and longer transitional periods'. Can the Minister specify these measures and transitional periods? All this raises the question of whether the government had not received any signals before that Morocco would play the map of Western Sahara. Was it indeed a thunderbolt in the clear sky? How could Morocco have let it get this far? That country, too, will not benefit from the termination of the Convention. Can the Minister comment on this? The government was forced to cease negotiations. Does this imply that there was no rack in the Moroccan side's arrangement and that there was a final offer? Has the government considered any alternatives? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. My group is concerned about the way things are going. Is the Minister still talking to his Moroccan colleague about the withdrawal of the treaty, perhaps through diplomatic or informal channels, or is there an overall cessation of communication in this dossier, over and over again? Does the Minister see any possibilities or is the endgame behind us? Will the period between now and the expiry date of 1 July a.s. still be used in any way? That date was partly motivated by the possibility of a consultative referendum. My group must take the view that the ideas of the referendum are now going to determine the legislative process in a completely separate way. Mrs Oomen also mentioned this briefly. The scope of the assessment of this bill goes beyond the Western Sahara issue alone. We must also take into account the geopolitical dimension, i.e. the consequences of the withdrawal of the Convention on our cooperation with Morocco in other areas. I refer, for example, to the control of fraud involving other social security benefits, trade relations, economic and development cooperation, refugee policy and the fight against international terrorism. That does not make things any easier and puts us in dilemmas. Can the Minister outline to the Christian Union Group how the cabinet has made this final assessment and, above all, what weighed the hardest? How did the risk analysis go? What does the Minister intend to do about damage control of our relations with Morocco? At this stage, it is above all about the way in which we deal with our own Moroccan community in this dossier. My group strongly believes that, should this legislative proposal be adopted, the government will communicate clearly with our Moroccan compatriots about the impact of the proposal on child benefit, the child-related budget and the cost of care. Can the Minister assure my group that a serious information pathway is being set up towards the Moroccan community? Can he promise that the conversation will take place? The uncertainty is great, as it turns out. Good communication and information are therefore needed. This commitment is important for my group for its final assessment of this bill. In conclusion, I would like to ask a question about the Association Decision between the European Union and Morocco, a decision which is specifically addressed. Does the Minister expect the European Commission to present this decision to the Council this year? Has he been informed whether the Western Sahara played a role in these talks with Morocco? For my group, however, the question goes even further. Suppose the Association Decision is ratified. Then overrulet this the present bill, should this be supported by this house tonight? If the answer is positive, what does that mean for our national social security self-direction, including in the case of this parliamentary debate today on the withdrawal by the Netherlands of the bilateral agreement with Morocco? My group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u10	Before I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven, I would like to inform you that I am now handing over the Presidency of this sitting to Mr Kox in connection with my departure to Brussels because of the parliamentary EU meeting that will take place there tomorrow, and today, moreover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr. Chairman. This bill has too long a history. The first Rutte cabinet was committed to restricting the export of benefits. In the meantime, a number of laws have been introduced at national level to implement this policy idea. I refer to the Homeland Principle Act, the Export Disability Act, child benefit and child budget, and the end of world coverage in temporary stays in the Health Insurance Act. My group still believes that this was an excellent initiative by Rutte I. The principle underlying the limitation of the export of benefits is also simple and understandable. Benefits serve as a safety net for maintenance provision. In the case of payments to Dutch residents, the Dutch level of prosperity determines the level of benefits. In the event of emigration or remigration from the beneficiary to another country, the logic forces the difference in the level of prosperity between the Netherlands and that other country to be corrected. The amount of the Dutch benefits is the starting point as a maximum benefit. In Morocco, the cost of living is about 40% lower than in the Netherlands. Under the current Convention on social security with Morocco, the Netherlands grants beneficiaries in Morocco a benefit which is much higher for the purpose of living there than the benefit of beneficiaries residing in the Netherlands for their livelihood. Social security benefits are not intended for asset formation. The starting point is that the Netherlands is bound by its international conventions. "Pacta sunt servanda." The Netherlands has international tradition and reputation to uphold as guardian of the international legal order. I am thinking of the many and important international courts which have their seat in The Hague. My group is watching over that. The same applies to the social security agreement with Morocco. But the Netherlands, in my group's view, must correct an error in that old 1972 treaty. Please note, to be corrected in accordance with international treaty law as laid down in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. The Netherlands can therefore use amended national insights on the export of benefits to modify the current social security agreement with Morocco. In my group's view, the Netherlands has been working with more than the necessary international comity to bring about an adaptation of this agreement with Morocco. It commends Minister Asscher for his efforts to continue the social security agreement with Morocco under amended conditions and with, in part, a long transitional period of four years. What I would like to call the "Asscher Slide Road" was recorded in the note following the report to the House of Representatives of 8 May 2015 and in the note following the report to the House of Representatives of Friday 12 February 2016. Mr Ester has already referred to it, which shows that we have a certain level playing field. Both notes show the image of the Moroccan Contracting Party, which has no beginning to understand the Dutch principle of housing. I do not wish to repeat the facts of the negotiations. For the sake of clarity, I would refer you to this point. And after Minister Asscher informed the First Chamber with due pride on behalf of the Foreign and Health Ministers, Welfare and Sport, and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment in his letter of 26 October 2015 that the Netherlands and Morocco had reached an agreement under further generous concessions from the Netherlands, he was again forced to inform the Second Chamber by his letter of 15 December 2015 that Morocco had made a new demand, namely to make the amendment of the social security treaty applicable to Western Sahara. Under international law, this was an impossible requirement for the Netherlands to comply with. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers Morocco's behaviour to be "chicane." The existence of the Social Security Convention with Morocco is being abused by this country to ignore the application of national laws of the Netherlands in the field of the export of benefits. This is unacceptable to the VVD Group. The chicanization of Morocco is that Morocco does not wish to participate at all in an amendment to the Social Security Convention. This is contrary to the 'good treaty loyalty' which states, parties to a treaty, have to contend with each other. The VVD Group agrees with this proposal to terminate the social security agreement with Morocco. However, my group is using the treatment of the termination of the social security agreement with Morocco to address a looming error in the Advisory referendum Act. To this end, the following applies. My group asked the Minister in the report on this bill when, on the basis of the deadlines set in the Advisory referendum Act, the entire process of a ultimately negative consultative referendum has been completed and could be terminated with Morocco. In the event of an interim consultative referendum, this Treaty may be terminated only after the referendum has been held. The Minister replied to this question from the VVD Group on page 11 of the note following the report. Based on the deadlines in the Advisory referendum Act, the Minister states, a referendum could be held between November 2016 and January 2017. The Minister thus confirms that a complete referendum on the termination of the Social Security Convention with Morocco will mean that notification of the termination to Morocco before 1 July 2016 is no longer possible. The earliest date on which the termination of the Social Security Convention with Morocco is possible for that situation shall be 1 January 2018. That's a further delay by a year. The social security agreement with Morocco already has a cooling-off period of six months. It is common practice to include a cooling-off period in international conventions. My group has no problem with that. However, the VVD is opposed to the cumulation of the time limits of the Advisory referendum Act and the period of notice in an international treaty to which the Netherlands is a party. In Article 5, the Advisory referendum Act excludes a number of laws to submit to a referendum. I refer to laws on the annual budget, laws amending the Constitution and laws implementing treaties. It is in line to exclude laws on treaties from holding a referendum. In my group's view, the adoption of the Advisory referendum Act has failed to exclude the ratification and termination of international conventions from the consultative referendum in Article 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I do not intend to repeat all the previous discussions of 2012 and 2014 on the Export child benefit Review Act, also known as "Whek," in extenso. However, since the present proposal for termination is in fact based on the law which was adopted in 2014 and which was already widely adopted in 2014, it makes sense to add a few contextual comments in brief. Following a first plenary debate on 18 December 2012, the export restriction proposal was retained. The Minister wanted to ask the Council of State for information on international law aspects of the proposal. My group was already very pleased at the Minister's speedy approach at that time to stop exports to non-EU countries as quickly as possible. A year and a half later, on 10 June 2014, the discussion was resumed only after the Council of State's replies, followed by the Minister's final conclusion by letter of 28 June of the same year that there were no international legal obstacles to the legislative proposal. Treatment of this could continue in the short term. The result was that it was adopted in this Chamber on 17 June. During the same period the smoke had also risen from the trenches war with the judge, who made a more detailed ruling on several parts. I will not go into the details now, because that is not what this is about. It is clear, however, that at the outset several Cabinets have lost sight of European agreements and some treaties. Among other things, the reduction in survivors' benefits to Turkey and Morocco was due to the exclusion of the country of residence principle and also to the reduction in family allowances to Morocco. I repeat that, in accordance with our previous line, the ratio behind the principle of housing and the restriction of exports of child benefit are unnecessarily snowed down in all the legal obstacles raised. Above all, tax-funded benefits should not in principle be exportable outside the EU. Child benefit and child-related budget are intended exclusively for the support of parents whose children live in the Netherlands. For 13 treaty countries, the export of child benefit and the child-related budget could already be stopped automatically. It was not necessary to amend the Treaties; the deletion of the derogation was sufficient. For nineteen other countries, which do require treaty adaptation, negotiations are still under way. In my group's view, simply canceling would be the best option from the start. Negotiations on adjustments are now likely to take years. This was certainly true for a country like Morocco, which did not react to anything at the time and managed to keep this minister on the road for years. A country that, after a very advantageous agreement with a large transitional regime concluded in September 2015, brutally managed to put some absurd demands on the table, by dragging the Western Sahara into it. A country that only in 2014 accused the Netherlands of being the only reaction of an "unfriendly act." It's gotta be done by now. We must put an end to this policy. For too long, the Minister has stuck in the mode of "a broad and careful consideration" and in a confusing terminology that the bottomline ignores: adaptation or termination. I also remind him of his statements such as: 'These benefits are not intended to be rich, but to provide livelihoods', tailored to the location here on the land. And "abuse and misuse must be combated if we are to maintain the support for the system', in the 2013 budget process. Consistency in policies and statements wouldn't be luxury right now. I can therefore assume that the period to use the motion of the House of Representatives is now finally over as a'signal towards Morocco'. My group seems to have come to the conclusion in the dialogue. This should also be done at long last, after a period in which this government here on the land has experienced rather serious deteriorations in social security, but it does not know how to crack any notes in this area. The continued existence of "benefit parties" would be a very navrant signal to all those affected by this cabinet policy. Why then continue to be explicit, even so far in the recent note, but to repeat that "the door of the Netherlands to conduct discussions is open"? And that this "desperation at different levels towards Morocco" has been indicated. Here it is openly hinted at the fact that everything is still possible until 1 July 2016. That looks like actively promoting before the window closes. What is the matter with this minister? How many more opportunities to train, manipulate or chicane, do you want to offer? Who's the asking party here? Can this minister say here and now that every form of consultation has been concluded in advance? As far as the idea of continuous "benefit parties" is concerned, I would like to say to the Minister that as early as 2010, in the Note, international labour mobility and social security, it was noted with some sense of understatement that the Dutch policy was already "wider and more generous" than the policy in many other countries. These "partys" will not end when this law is adopted, so that current benefits, which are not already affected by the country of residence principle, will be preserved. Nor does the forthcoming EU Association Treaty ensure that the country-of-home principle can apply to survivors' and invalidity benefits. This is partly due to a mandate given by the Netherlands once in wisdom. For the record, the housing land factor has been set at 40% for 2016. Perhaps the Minister could join the cabinet's slogan: "Pack it up and no longer move it back." Or did only the other coalition partner have this pretence? Secondary objections if that would reduce the number of children, the proceeds would be negligible, it would only be new benefits and control of fraud and legality would no longer be possible, do not detract from the principle endorsed. Why should we allow ourselves to be held hostage by a country which has never been in the "co-work position" and which will certainly not be held hostage anymore? The years of puppies and wet keeping are over. In the opinion of my group, principles still go beyond pragmatism. Moreover, the control of fraud was already problematic in any case. Illustrative for this is the remark made by the then government under the Export Benefits Control Act of 1999, that in the case of "exports the powers and factual possibilities of the Dutch implementing bodies are more limited to control and verification than in the Netherlands'. How euphemistic is that? The suspicion of fraud, just to be careful, was evident enough for a majority of the House of Representatives, including the current Secretary of State of SZW, to want to end child benefit to Morocco and Turkey. The savings are still substantial in structural terms, with some 40 million or, if the Association Agreement is in place, 18 million. Moreover, the delay in termination has already led to a loss of 19 million. The conclusion can be no other than to implement immediately the Schut-Welk motion and finally to terminate this agreement with Morocco immediately. As far as we are concerned, the door, which the Minister is still holding his foot in, can be pulled shut. He can spare himself a few bruised toes, but even more: the corridor to Morocco with the hat in his hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of time in trying to adapt the social security treaty and agreement with Morocco: time in official preparation, advice from implementing organisations, negotiations and political debates. This cabinet thus shows that it is important to put an end to the export of benefits, which is an agreement made in the government agreement of the Rutte I cabinet. Obstacles that stand in the way must be removed if necessary, even if this means that the withdrawal of a cooperation agreement with a country with which we will, in any case, have a great deal to do. One of these reasons is that some 350,000 inhabitants of the Netherlands are Moroccan nationals. Furthermore, the Minister is right to point out the importance of good cooperation because of the strategic position of the country. The answer given by the Minister to our questions is: we are going to cancel the agreement with Morocco now, but we are mainly doing so as a means of exerting pressure to move Morocco in our direction, because we want to maintain good cooperation. Our group believes that the cabinet is playing a major role if it really cares about the good relationship with Morocco and that the cabinet does not recognise that the Netherlands itself has already caused the necessary irritations in this area, first with the introduction of the principle of housing, thus ignoring all legal advice, the judge has finally had to reverse it and then with the withdrawal of the treaty now. In this context, it is also presumptuous to place the ball at Morocco now and thus give the impression that the party in particular is acting irresponsiblely by not simply agreeing to an adjustment. Of course, Morocco's demand to extend its scope to Western Sahara was unacceptable, but the present proposal, which was already tabled in May last year, is not the inevitable consequence of Morocco's demand for negotiations last autumn. The debate in the Lower House was always about the options: to negotiate until an adjustment has been achieved, or to terminate. My group would also like to keep a third option open, namely to keep what we have now. For an adjustment, both sides will have to agree. It is the Netherlands that wants an adjustment and that Morocco must be prepared to do so. Has the stage really been reached that this is not going to work? My group is not yet convinced of this. Quitting means giving up permanently, and that is a huge step, as if we have no time to lose and therefore stand our backs against the wall: we have to give up now, Morocco has had its chance. My group is missing this haste and the need to take such an irreversible step now. Looking at the pieces, we have not become convinced that there is such a need. The political choice to limit the export of benefits as much as possible has already been made, but that does not mean that you have to make an independent assessment of each country, or that choice should prevail over other interests and benefits. A political choice or a policy objective, as the Minister calls it, should not lead to blind implementation? We have many other policy objectives, which we also want to achieve. The main question is what is at stake. What do we have to gain and what do we lose when the two agreements with Morocco are terminated? Let us look at the actual yield. If we assume that the EU Association Decision with Morocco will enter into force this year, which will revive the right to export a number of benefits, then cancellation will only affect child benefit, the child-related budget, the Supplements Act and the coverage under the Health Insurance Act. This is only about new situations, not about the rights that already exist. If we look at the number of children in Morocco who are entitled to child benefit and the child-related budget, we are talking about over 3,000 children. Twenty years ago, that number was more than ten times higher. That drastic decline will only continue. The cabinet assumes 150 new cases a year and in ten years' time, given the continuing decline, it may still be a few dozen children. In good Dutch: this is not about anything. The number of people receiving benefits under the Supplementary Act is 400. Here, too, we are talking about a calculation of savings, which is new situations after 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u14	I hear Mrs Strik's speech, but does the assessment of the legislative proposal ultimately amount to a calculation of the numerical advantages or disadvantages? Or is this still based on a form of principle? I would like to know a little more about that, because Mrs Strik is only talking about pluses and minuses. Is this a balance-of-payments approach? Is that GroenLinks' approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u15	It is a policy goal to limit exports abroad, but you are not going to blindly pursue that one goal if there are many other policy goals at stake in the implementation. This is one stage in my speech. I put the pros and cons side by side. Partly it is financial, but it is also about other advantages and disadvantages. I believe that they should be involved in the consideration of whether you want to pursue this policy objective with regard to Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u16	How consistent is Mrs. Strik? She talks about her third proposal, but that is the old regime, whatever that may be. But enforcement does not recognise Mrs Strik's entire argument about the advantages and disadvantages and the pluses and minuses, because that results in a balance. And we'll stick to the old one, won't we? I can't rhyme with those thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u17	I don't see that inconsistency. I believe that this option should also be kept on the table. We have to weigh all the pluses and minuses. At the end, we must conclude that the third option may not be better than the amendment or termination of the Convention. I just got off a question. According to the Minister, how many new applications are to be expected under the Supplementary Act? Is this also an expected decrease in the number of beneficiaries? With regard to the use of care during a temporary stay in Morocco, the Zorginstituut is based on 1700 new applications per year. The Minister estimates the savings at 17,5 million. My group would like to know whether he has taken sufficient account of the declining trends. On the other hand, there is the disadvantage of the disappearance of controls on property, the legality of benefits and medical examinations. As the other benefits under the Association Decision go through, but that decision does not itself regulate controls, the Government is deeply concerned by the withdrawal of the Convention. The absence of controls will destroy some of the already relatively small savings by at least 1.2 million and perhaps by other amounts. Perhaps the Minister will be able to supplement that. If we include all the efforts involved in the negotiations and the termination, we will have even less advantage. Those are all financial points indeed. However, the disadvantages are clear and worrying. Morocco has already announced that it will explain its withdrawal as an unfriendly act, and we have already seen its consequences. Moroccan foreigners were released last year from detention for lack of perspective on expulsion. In many other policy areas, too, we risk damaging the cooperation relationship. Think of those in the area of Dutch in prisons in Morocco, criminal cooperation, including counter-terrorism, deradicalisation, migration, but also themes such as integration and culture. Even if cooperation in these other areas is carried out on the basis of other agreements, the implementation of these agreements may indeed suffer from a deteriorating diplomatic relationship. Indeed, cooperation remains largely dependent on political will. Does the Minister really think that achieving this one policy objective, namely ending exports to all countries outside the EU, is more important than all the other policy objectives? I would like an explanation on this, because the Minister has not yet made that assessment sufficiently clear to us. Has the government also considered the interests of other parties, such as Moroccan citizens living in the Netherlands, who, because of their links with that country, may also be affected by a worsening cooperation? In addition, the Social Insurance Bank expects a large number of procedures concerning the actual residence of a child. Soon, unlike the present situation, there will be a need to assess the actual place of residence of the child. Evidence will have to be used to support the granting of family allowances. These decisions will provoke appeal and appeal procedures, with a high level of administrative costs and burdens for public authorities and citizens. What about the administrative burden on benefits resurrected under the Association Decision? How sure can we be that the Association Decision entered into force when the agreements with Morocco expire? We are already in 2016. Can the Minister outline more precisely what will happen in the coming months at EU level and what is the expectation of the entry into force date? If that date is possibly later than the date of termination, what does that mean for the rights under Anw, WIA, WAO and old-age pensions? What does this mean more specifically for applications submitted between those two moments? Are these granted only after the Association Decision has entered into force, or do the applicants otherwise fall into a hole? Please explain the different scenarios that can arise from the timing of both processes. My group would have preferred to wait until the Association Decision came into force because of these uncertainties, but the cabinet is in a hurry. So much haste that also the First Chamber should now deal with this bill with bloodshed. Where the First Chamber takes into account in other legislation an eight-week period for the possible use of the Advisory referendum Act, it was now urged to vote on this bill no less than four months before its entry into force. Is it not true that other referendable laws do not include the second round of a possible initiative for an advisory referendum? My group is missing the distinctive criterion with regard to the other legislative proposals. Maybe it has something to do with the treaty. Can the Minister therefore explain exactly how much time he needs for a Royal Decree to enter into force before 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u18	Mrs Strik has mentioned a lot of disadvantages and not many benefits. She then asked: why do we not wait until the association agreement is completed? But then all these disadvantages are as severe as they are now? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u19	If we had waited another year, the final judgment of my group would not have been very different. If this is the wish of the cabinet and a majority of the Chamber, then it is going to happen. However, due to the timing and uncertainties, gaps may arise. That is why I would say, apart from what my group thinks, that it would have been wiser to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u20	I don't really have a question anymore, but I'd rather come to a conclusion. There is therefore no difference in principle, only the moment is a little later. Eventually, the same things happen that you're afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u21	My comment on timing is not about the content of the proposal, but merely about the date of its entry into force. If it had to be done, it would have seemed safer to me that it had been taken into account. In short, my group considers the way the cabinet has gone, an unwise one, and fears that this bill will destroy more than we like. Hopefully the Minister will come to his senses in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing a bill here today that should have been prevented. The question is no longer whether it could have been prevented, because Morocco has made it impossible for the Netherlands to come up with a joint revision of the general treaty and the administrative agreement. The question for today is whether it can be prevented that, without achieving its own objective, the relationship between the Netherlands and Morocco will continue to be bad for a long time. It is true that, in his note on the report, the Minister stresses the links between the two countries, which have been 400 years old, but the text around them shows that there is little more than absolute hope that the withdrawal of the Treaty will not lead to a deterioration in relations. Can the Minister state to what extent Morocco's attitude gives rise to such a firm hope? The note shows that Morocco already in 2014 considered the intention to revise the treaty and agreement to be an unfriendly act of the Netherlands. Morocco's response to this has so far been said several times this afternoon, and the note itself shows that it has been a whole series of unfriendly acts and repeated refraining from friendly acts. One could say that this is understandable in response to what might be seen as a violation of the acquired rights of Moroccan citizens, but one can also say that on the Dutch side there was all the more reason to take account of a form of permanent opposition, given this interest. It is striking that in the note the Minister is somewhat vague about the extent and manner in which neighbouring countries with a large Moroccan community, particularly Belgium, France and the not mentioned Spain, have adjusted the amounts of family allowances for exports. The problem of Western Sahara did not play a role there? Has there been bilateral or European Union consultation or exchange of information and experience? Has it never been pointed out by neighbouring countries or by our own Foreign Minister, who was in Morocco in February 2015, or by our own diplomats, that Western Sahara has been included in the revision of the Convention and the Agreement? The D66 Group would like to be further informed by the Minister. Two things are clear from the Minister's replies in the note to the report. First of all, the termination of the Convention and the agreement does not produce much material results, certainly not in the light of the total Dutch social security budget. Is it correct, I would ask the Minister, that when the EU-Morocco Association Decision is introduced, almost all child benefit and child budget exports can continue to be stopped? Is it also true that, on the basis of the expected entry and exit of children who are entitled to child benefit, we will reach an annual amount of approximately the same amount of EUR 5 million? Is it not to be expected that fewer children will end up going or staying in Morocco when the right to family allowances for new cases is abolished? After all, the relative financial advantage of living and going to school in Morocco is no longer present. We are already talking about small numbers and low amounts, and that seems to be even more the case when we look at Western Sahara numerically. The Minister, as can be seen from the report's note, cannot say how many beneficiaries of family allowances live in that area. However, it is known that in Western Sahara there are seven people with an AOW benefit. That is less than 0.1% of the more than 12,000 AOW beneficiaries living in Morocco. At present, 3100 children in Morocco receive child benefit. It seems very unlikely that in the very sparsely populated Western Sahara, where only 1.5% of Morocco's inhabitants live and which is more than 1000 kilometres away from the area where most Moroccan Dutch people come from, more than one child is entitled to child benefit. Mutatistively, for beneficiaries of other social security benefits, it may also be assumed that they are at most a few individuals. This small numerical exercise is intended to make the dilemma for which the cabinet and this Chamber stand visible. In principle, it is right that, after long negotiations and a near agreement that has already been reached, political demands should not have been satisfied, which, if introduced at the start of the negotiations, should have been taken into account, let us say: in view of the history of Western Sahara, they could and should have been brought in by Morocco, which would have already caused a stalemate. The D66 Group therefore fully understands the intention to terminate the Treaty and the agreement. Nevertheless, it is clear that the preservation of one's own honour and the achievement of moral equality in all other respects is very little. The financial benefits are small and, in part, very temporary in nature. The already difficult cooperation with a country of which more than 1% of the population lives in the Netherlands, while, on the other hand, there is no comparable situation, is still under pressure. That is not in the interests of the Netherlands and the Moroccan Dutch. "The door of Dutch is open to debate," the Minister writes in his note to this Chamber. Does the Minister still see an opportunity to go out that door and see if the conversation can be reopened? If Morocco wants to show that it is allowing the interests of its own citizens to prevail over the interests of those few individual cases in Western Sahara, but above all the thousands of citizens associated with the Netherlands in Morocco itself, rather than sticking to a political demand which, by definition, cannot be accepted, and of course we know that, an amendment to the Treaty should still be possible. My group is sorry to read in the Minister's note that there would be no room for the suggestion that a pragmatic solution should be found in some cases. That conclusion is drawn very quickly and categorically. In the Netherlands, too, a regular postal address is allowed or even created in social security and care in order to provide people without permanent residence or residence with the help and resources they would be entitled to as ordinary established citizens. It is a very bureaucratic logic which allows the AOW to be paid to someone who lives in Western Sahara, but who forbids the payment of child benefit in the same area. I hope for a somewhat more generous reply from the Minister than the short-sighted rejection he has expressed in the note. It is true that, if Morocco and the Netherlands are both prepared to exercise less national pride than the importance of their own citizens and of good relations between them, a solution must be found to this problem which has been brought about again and again. However, that indeed requires an effort on both sides and perhaps it also requires a door-walking that is already open, as far as the Netherlands is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u23	I would like to refer to Mr Schnabel's comment on residence and fictitious residence. The example he mentions is not quite the same as what is happening in the Netherlands in those exceptional cases, because it takes place within the national borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u24	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u25	That's one. The second is that for tax purposes residences fake fraud. I wonder how Mr Schnabel's residence fiction - which people choose then a fictitious residence - could combine a place of residence in social security law with residence fiction in tax law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u26	That's a technical question. I can't really say anything about tax law. I refer only to situations that we use in the Netherlands, and indeed this happens, for example, to people without permanent residence and residence. It has also happened in the past with people who needed addiction care, but did not have a permanent place to live or stay. For them fictions were created, of which everyone knows and which are also allowed, to ensure that those people can come to their right and certain. I cannot say anything about the tax aspects of this. What's going on should be figured out. I was particularly concerned that this suggestion in the note was dismissed very quickly and categorically as 'we cannot, we do not, we do not want to'. I thought that the exceptions we know in the Netherlands in this area should be able to give some room to think about whether you can find a pragmatic solution to this problem too. I don't want to say it deserves the beauty prize. I am trying to stress that this is a single case and that you should be able to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u27	Of course, I understand very much that Mr Schnabel does not want to express himself taxly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u28	I can't, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u29	No, but the comparison of people who live in the gutter at the bottom of society, with people who enjoy their pension in Morocco, possibly with children, does not seem to me to go one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u30	Retirement wasn't included. The AOW was already out of it, because that's what those people get in Western Sahara. I am not concerned that the situation would be comparable in the social sense. I am concerned that in this situation a construction is being made in the interest of insurance. It is a question of creating the space to look for a very pragmatic solution for people who are actually entitled to something, but cannot realize that right through all kinds of hassle from the governments concerned. That is all you need to read, especially not the idea that it would be a situation that is completely comparable in the social sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u31	The thought of false constructions is compelling. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u32	I have one more question for Mr Schnabel. In my view, he does reduce the debate to a case where two people disagree. It must have been up to both parties. He comes with notions like "get it right," "put aside national pride," or "we can figure it out." Doesn't Mr Schnabel think we've been at it long enough? We have been working for five years now, and the reconstruction in the note shows that this has already been recalled in this Chamber. How can Mr Schnabel arrive with notions such as 'national pride' or'self-parking equal', for the sake of a partner who has been completely unreliable and has absolutely not cooperated at all? I really cannot reconcile these notions with your story, Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u33	It's the notions that are in my story. Let me put it this way: I agree with you that, of course, it has gone on for far too long and that, of course, you will find that it has obviously been a very difficult situation from the outset, in which the other party did not want to cooperate. You described that yourself and others did so today. My plea is correct to say... Of course there is a feeling of hurting national pride. I thought I heard that very clearly in your story and with others as well. However, I am only looking at those involved and at the rights at stake. I think it would be a good gesture if the Minister were still able to say: let us discuss it again, and that may be done in private from me, in order not to sacrifice the interests of citizens on the Dutch side and the interests of citizens on the Moroccan side to something that is perhaps entirely our right, I am not going to fight about it at all. Let us bear in mind that, as parties, Morocco and the Netherlands, we will have to move forward with each other for a very long time, perhaps not for 400 years, but for a very long time. These two considerations led me to a pragmatic solution, in addition to a sense of principles which I believe many in this Chamber share with you and with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u34	I still have one more question. I understand your story, even if I don't share it. Then how do you assess the fact that in 2014, I believe there was a negotiating agreement in September or November, an agreement with Morocco, which was extremely favourable, with a very flexible transitional regime? Does that not contradict your words when you say that we could or should still be able to make an adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u35	I think that if you read my story again, you will see that in that respect I am also very clear in my assessment of what has happened and how to interpret it. I'm trying to get over that. I am trying to invite the Minister to look again at whether there is still room to be sure that we have done everything we could, in the interests of individuals, but also in the interests of the relationship between the two countries. That would be my answer to your question. I thought I made it clear in the introduction of my story what my opinion is on how Morocco has acted in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u36	One more comment. I think that we, as a country, have already done more in all reality, in a very business-like way, than would have been normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u37	I also asked the Minister to comment on how other countries managed to deal with this. You might be able to learn from that again. We need to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House, the Minister explained in detail on 13 January 2016 that in September 2015 there was a deal with Morocco on an amended treaty. Unfortunately, in December 2015, Morocco made an additional demand that the Dutch government could not respond to. In consultation with the Lower House, the Minister indicated that he still prefers to amend the Treaty, in the interests of both countries. The door is still open and conversations are still going on. Despite this, we are in favour of approving the withdrawal of the agreement with Morocco. Perhaps Parliament's decision-making is part of the negotiating strategy, but what if the Minister comes to the shortest conclusion and at some point has to take action? Then the Netherlands sits with the following proverbial fried pears. In the Minister's letter of 3 June 2014, the Minister himself indicated that he considered the withdrawal of the Convention to be unwise, in particular because of the risks to the fight against fraud and enforcement. The termination of the control arrangements will nullify them and the property controls in Morocco, necessary to establish the right to assistance, will no longer be able to continue. In this case, there is a real risk that the number of cases of fraud will increase. Upon termination of the Convention, the possibility for medical examinations to be carried out by or in cooperation with the Moroccan authorities shall lapse. Medical checks can only be carried out by calling on customers to come to the Netherlands. The UWV pays travel and subsistence expenses for these beneficiaries. Calling to the Netherlands, however, is not always possible because of the lack of travel due to illness and there is no alternative. The insurance doctors of the UWV are not authorized to carry out medical examinations independently in Morocco. The expulsions of illegal foreigners to Morocco will no longer be possible. Since 14 October 2014, no laissez-passer has been issued at all by the Moroccan authorities. The Moroccan authorities already informed the Secretary of State on 9 December 2014 that the reason lies in the intention to terminate the Convention. The detention of illegal Moroccans would then be contrary to Article 59 of the Foreigner's Act, as there is no prospect of expulsion. Abandonment of the treaty can have an attractive effect on Moroccans with criminal intentions, because they know they can't be deported. Transfer of criminal proceedings on the basis of the legal aid agreement between Morocco and the Netherlands since 1 December 2012 will no longer take place. Information relevant to preventing terrorist attacks will no longer be provided. Morocco played an important role in clarifying the identity of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris. Cooperation in criminal investigations and prosecution will deteriorate. The Netherlands and Morocco now jointly run the Global Counterterrorism Forum. Furthermore, the termination of the Convention will have an impact on trade relations. Morocco regards the termination of the treaty as an unfriendly act. In short, cooperation between the Netherlands and Morocco in the areas of civil law, criminal law, police duties, counter-terrorism, migration, defence cooperation, customs and fiscal cooperation, trade and development cooperation is under pressure. As I understand it, the amended treaty is off the table because Morocco has made an additional demand to include Western Sahara in this social security agreement. To what extent is the government worth taking the risks mentioned with the termination of the Convention? Could the Minister explain the impact of the coming of the new Association Decision between the EU, its Member States and Morocco on the decision to request Parliament's approval for the withdrawal of the agreement with Morocco? On this basis, most Dutch benefits, albeit not family allowances, are again subject to export obligations to Morocco. However, the possibilities offered by this Decision for monitoring the legality of benefits are much more limited than in the present Convention and Agreement. The draft association decision does allow the Netherlands to make new agreements with Morocco on the fight against fraud, but the association export obligation makes the Netherlands' negotiating position weaker from the outset than when the Treaty was amended in 2002 and 2003, as stated in the opinion of the Administrative Court of the Council of State. The SP Group would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. Today I call Mr Bas van der Vlies, who tabled a motion in 2009 with a clear and sober premise, namely that we should take into account the price level or cost level of the country of payment when exporting benefits. This principle, which, of course, has been the subject of discussion for a long time, but which was then laid down in a motion, was finally laid down in 2011 in the Homeland Law principle in social security. This very reasonable principle was rightly supported by Parliament. Now, however, it comes to implementation, especially now that the government actually wants to settle three issues: the end of the export of child benefit and child-related budget for children living outside the EU, the cessation of world coverage for temporary stay outside the EU under the Health Insurance Act and the implementation of the amended Schut-Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion in the Lower House (26448, no. 515), in which the Government is asked to amend the Convention in such a way that it no longer precludes the application of the Land Law into social security. In recent years, it has been shown that the implementation of the first two measures requires adaptation of the Convention and the corresponding administrative agreement on social security with Morocco. The direct implementation of the principle of housing does not appear to be an option either, since the Central Board of Appeal has established that "the reduction of family allowances under the Housing Land Law for children living in Morocco is contrary to international law." In other words, the current treaty should not be changed. We have to respect that. Now, in the negotiations with Morocco, the government has sought to adapt the Convention so that, in addition to the cessation of child benefit, the child-related budget and the world's coverage, the principle of the country of residence can also be applied in all cases. Two routes are conceivable. The first is the adaptation of the existing Treaty. The Dutch Government has rightly tried to amend the treaty. It was a fine achievement by the Minister when he reached an agreement with Morocco. However, Morocco then came up with additional requirements, in particular with regard to the Western Sahara, as is well known disputed area. The Minister indicated that this would be contrary to national law and international law. Again, we have to respect that. It is quite clear to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that unreasonable demands must not be met and unlawful acts must be rejected. This means, however, that the Dutch Government must be consistent and that Morocco will have to bear the consequences of its own attitude. So only the second route remains: the termination of the current treaty. In fact, this concerns the implementation of the Schut-Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion. This motion asked the government to come forward with a legislative proposal to terminate the agreement with Morocco if the negotiations did not lead to the desired result. The termination of the Convention will not lead to any new cases of export of benefits to Morocco in the future. This does not appear to have any consequences for those who are currently receiving benefits. Can the Minister confirm that again? Or are the existing benefits still subject to the principle of residence and, if so, what benefits are they? And what happens to families who are now covered by the export benefit scheme and who bring their children to the Netherlands after termination of the treaty, and then leave them to live in Morocco after some time? The SGP Group has taken note of the Minister's replies to the question of whether the withdrawal of the Treaty has implications for other policy areas. I'm just gonna name two now. The first one I mention, because we discovered a pun in it. It says: "We understand that a promised financing of a Morocco exhibition at the Royal Institute of the Tropics has been frozen." It didn't make the SGP hot or cold. Much more difficult is a second point, namely if cooperation in the field of forced return is made more difficult. Is it to be expected that this will lead to major problems and, if so, how does the government intend to respond to them? Meanwhile, the EU is also negotiating an association agreement with Morocco. The Dutch Government has also given a mandate for these negotiations. But what does this mandate mean? Is it just drawing at the cross? Or is the Convention still being submitted to the Member States? The reply shows that the mandate of the EU States for a draft Association Decision with Morocco was already issued in 2010. That was six years ago. Are there no issues in all EU Member States that require a review? In six years' time, there have been developments that could not be foreseen when issuing a mandate. Does the government still see the possibility of responding, possibly in consultation with the EU Member States which also take into account the standard of living of the country to which exports are being made, such as Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany and France? The members of the SGP await with interest the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u40	Mr. Chairman. What a pleasure to see you once in the chair. All thanks to the EU. The PvdA Group regrets that the talks between Morocco and the Netherlands on treaty adjustment have been terminated and that, as far as we are concerned, the House must now deal with this bill. We get the feeling that something is about to go wrong here that shouldn't go wrong. As Mr Schnabel said, we are discussing a legislative proposal here today which should have been prevented. My group recognizes that times have changed with regard to exports of social security services. For this reason, we have in principle advocated the application of the country-of-home principle. However, in the specific case of Morocco, we have always warned that Article 5 of the bilateral agreement with Morocco precluded the application of this principle to social benefits to those entitled in Morocco. It was ultimately the judge who made this clear to the government in various legal proceedings. We have noted with great interest the substantive agreement reached by the governments of Morocco and the Netherlands in the autumn. We believe that this is a fair compromise that does justice to the interests of both countries in a balanced way and to the people who are involved. We appreciate the government's commitment to this. We were therefore disappointed to learn that this compromise, already bearing the signatures of our Minister and his Moroccan colleague, was stranded at the eleventh hour. It's only been eight weeks. However, with steam and boiling water, the government now intends to obtain approval for the planned termination of the entire treaty. Mid-January in the Lower House, already in the Upper Chamber. One-sided termination of a treaty relationship is a serious matter. Seriously for the government, which lets there be no misunderstanding about this with angelic patience and a great deal of commitment and tact in the person of Minister Asscher has tried to prevent this. Seriously affect the overall relations between Morocco and the Netherlands. Seriously also for Moroccan workers and their families, who have made an important contribution to the construction of our welfare state in the Netherlands. My group cannot escape the impression that this great haste, perhaps now also in some resentment of the fickle negotiating behaviour of the Moroccan authorities, threatens to deprive us of reasonable alternatives to the withdrawal of the treaty. Alternatives from which the Dutch message is still sent in an unmistakable manner. It is in this situation of such a high level of conflict between the two countries, all over the heads of Moroccan workers and their families, that the primary task of the First Chamber is to keep a cool head and to propose alternatives and to involve them in the deliberations. How? My group mentions three strategies. Read a cooling-off period and try to agree to give provisional application to the agreement between the two governments which has already been signed by the Ministers. The text of the Amending Protocol is, after all, fully ready, even if it is not attached to the documents for this legislative proposal. If Morocco is not prepared to agree on provisional application in the short term, unilateral suspension of the partial operation of the bilateral convention may be considered as an alternative to the termination of the entire convention. After all, the fact that both governments had agreed on a Amending Protocol means that the old 1972 Convention would remain as a framework Convention. The figure of the old treaty as a framework for amending protocols is regularly found in treaty practice. This also means, in the circumstances, that there has indeed been a dispute over the continued application of the current Convention. In the absence of specific provisions on suspension in the Convention between the Netherlands and Morocco, general treaty law, as laid down in the Vienna Convention, to which both countries are parties, applies. General Treaty law provides that both Contracting Parties have a duty to act in good faith, including during negotiations. They must also take into account, in their contractual relationship, substantial changes in circumstances, in this case in the social security systems currently in force in the Netherlands in respect of those which existed in 1972 at the time of the establishment of the Convention. Finally, another Contracting Party must not be put into an impossible position to implement the Convention. The latter seems to be the case for the Netherlands with the Moroccan requirement to extend the territorial scope of the Convention to Western Sahara. Unlike the government, we believe that unilateral, partial suspension of the Convention could be a justified alternative to total withdrawal of the Convention. With the government, and with many groups here, the members of the PvdA Group do not consider it unlikely that the termination of this treaty could have negative repercussions on the ongoing cooperation between Morocco and the Netherlands in various areas. Many of them have already been mentioned: the fight against fraud, the exchange of cadastral data, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, the fight against marriage coercion, etc. The question arises as to whether the financial benefits provided for by the termination of this social security agreement outweigh the expected disadvantages of a break in the broad cooperation between the two countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u41	Mr Schrijver's reasoning is that we could temporarily terminate the treaty or at least suspend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u42	Suspending is something other than canceling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u43	I'm sorry. I just had to get back together. Mr Schrijver is actually in favour of suspending the Convention, but I understand that even if the Convention is terminated, there will be no change in the current cases. The suspension of the Convention could therefore only have consequences for new cases. You're going to apply a modified regime to that. Isn't that a bit of a miraculous reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u44	I don't think so. I would like to thank Mr Schalk for his question, which gives me the opportunity to briefly explain the difference between suspension and termination. In the event of termination, you terminate the operation of a treaty, albeit in this case in due course. In the case of suspension, you actually maintain the treaty, but you have the possibility of not applying certain parts of the treaty for the time being. If circumstances clear up, if there is still a view of a treaty change agreed by both parties, the suspended treaty may revive. You don't have to make a new treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u45	I would like to thank Mr Schrijver for his explanation of suspension and withdrawal. I would have understood it myself as Mr Schrijver explains it, but in both cases, both in the event of suspension and termination, there are in my humble opinion no consequences for the current current cases. Or is Mr Schrijver's intention actually to introduce a much more stringent measure, namely to ensure that all benefits are suspended for the time being? That cannot have been his intention, listening to Mr Schrijver's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u46	Mr Schalk understood that very well. That is certainly not my intention, which is why I was the first alternative to calling for a legal examination of the possibility of provisional application of the substantive agreement. We have that kind of thing all the time. I would point out, hopefully without the President looking at me angry, the provisional application of parts of the association agreement with Ukraine. This is a treaty that has not yet been ratified, but parts of it are applied provisionally with the agreement of both parties. In this way, you can also suspend certain parts of a treaty, if necessary unilaterally, under certain circumstances. I would remind you of the unilateral decision taken by the Dutch Government in response to the December murders in Suriname, not to suspend the operation of a part of the whole of the cooperation agreement with Suriname. This is justified by the fact that there had been a fundamental change in circumstances. You can see a treaty as a living instrument, which should also be able to follow the trend in social security systems. An agreement had already been reached on this, not just between diplomatic delegations, but at the highest level, between the two ministers. The text of the Amending Protocol was ready. The minister said in the Lower House: we have already signed it. These facts also seem to me to be a very fundamental circumstance. I would like, in another capacity, to be the country's attorney to this minister in order to be able to include that as a legitimate reason in these treaty negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u47	I understand Mr Schrijver then as follows: accept the agreement which eventually included a few signatures..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u48	I think it is in the spirit of that Amending Protocol to do what is in that Amending Protocol. That is therefore a gradual phasing-out. I do not have the details in my head; Mr Schalk asked the Minister. The protocol provides for a phased phasing-out, including for new cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u49	Mr Schrijver mentioned three principles of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which apply cumulatively. The first principle is that you must implement a treaty in good faith as a party to the treaty. The second principle is that you have to take account of changes in national legislation, which would occur. The third principle is that you should not make impossible demands in a treaty. In view of the first principle, I wonder whether there is indeed good faith on the part of Morocco in this negotiation process. What is Mr Schrijver's opinion on this? In confesso, there is far-reaching change in legislation in the Netherlands. The impossible requirement concerning Western Sahara has also been fulfilled. So I have a constitutional problem with moving to suspension. Suspension is, as Mr Schrijver himself said, an action that you take unilaterally in a very exceptional situation. He mentioned Suriname, which is a very good example in this respect. However, this is preceded by a period of years of negotiations. Mr Asscher has really done more than what is required on the basis of good faith in the Vienna Convention, in order to reach agreement. I therefore find it somewhat remarkable to opt for an interim solution to this situation on a one-sided basis. In addition, there is the element of "other treaties." These are legal aid and other aid based on treaties existing between the Netherlands and Morocco. It seems strange to my group that Morocco's withdrawal of these treaties is not under discussion in this House at the moment. What is Mr Schrijver's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u50	My colleague mentions my proposals as remarkable, but remarkable situations also require remarkable solutions and creative thinking. That's what I've been trying to practice. You may indeed expect your treaty partner to act in good faith, even during negotiations. Of course, the same goes for you. I did not say that merely an amendment to the national legislation of one of the contracting parties could be sufficient reason not to comply with treaty obligations. On the contrary, the Vienna Convention expressly excludes this. National legislation adopted should never be a reason for failing to comply with commitments you have entered into under a treaty. Mr Van de Ven says that there has been a long negotiation. You can argue about what "long" is, but it's quite a period. However, it is a fact that a substantive agreement was reached. The loyalty of the treaty requires that you take that into account in the follow-up steps to be taken now. That is why I may have made a remarkable proposal, but remember that the substantive agreement was only eight weeks ago. Along three strategies, which are compatible, but which can each be a good alternative to the horse's means of withdrawal, I try to propose solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u51	If I'm right, there's only one treaty with Morocco. We are abandoning this agreement with Morocco, because we want social security to be regulated differently in accordance with the legislation. This means that all other matters, including mutual assistance and withdrawal obligations, will also disappear. That is the nasty thing about the withdrawal of this treaty. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u52	I fully agree with Mrs Oomen. That's why you can't see the treaty completely in isolation. It is one element, an important element, in the whole of treaty relations, even political relations between the two countries. That is why I also tried to make it clear to Mr Schalk that suspension is still an unfriendly act, but a little less unfriendly than total withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u53	On 4 February, the Minister already responded to the PvdA's proposal to suspend. In the opinion of the Cabinet, there is no situation in which the conditions for a successful appeal to one of these provisions are met. In fact, therefore, it is stated that suspension is not possible. Can Mr Schrijver respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u54	I found it interesting to hear that view from the government in this letter. I also noted that not many sentences have been added. That is why I have moved forward to come back to this point. My group invites the government to come up with a firm position on why this is a thought that would not be legal at all. If there is any doubt about it, I invite the government to consider with our Chamber whether it is possible to find a way out of this very difficult impasse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u55	Would you like to finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u56	Yes. If that is not the case, I have a third and final strategy. It's actually in the treaty itself. That is the establishment of an arbitration committee. That is a bit of a heavy word perhaps, but that committee can then give a binding decision on a salomon judgment if you want to discuss the dispute over the application and interpretation of the Treaty. Once again, in answering our questions, the government makes it rather loosely clear that there is no dispute about the interpretation and application of the present Convention. However, that is only very much the question. I have already mentioned the content of the Amending Protocol and the two signatures. The government also states in the note following the report itself that a treaty is a living instrument that reflects the systems of both countries and that I quote 'bilateral social security treaties must be able to follow developments in the systems of the parties to the treaty'. It seems to us that in this country, in this city of peace and justice, we must also have some confidence in the legal methods of settling disputes. For this reason, we ask the government to reconsider the invocation and opportunity of this alternative option to settle the dispute as a provisional alternative to possible treaty termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u57	I would like to put a question to this constitutional expert, for whom I have great respect. Is it going to work when there is only an international political problem? The Dutch Government then says that it does not want the Western Sahara there because this leads to international treaty problems. Europe says it can. Morocco says that if you don't mention it and you do, she's for it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u58	That could be very good. Of course, an arbitration committee must first of all assess matters on their legal merits. But it is not for nothing that the term "ex aequo et bono" is often used very often: according to law and fairness. This makes it possible to involve the issues referred to by Mrs Oomen. I can be very brief about the association decision, because the previous speakers have shown this very well. All in all, it raises the question of what the material profit of treaty termination is. Are you sure this bill's soup is worth the cabbage? We think it's a horse medicine. It raises the question whether the relationship between Morocco and the Netherlands, no matter how old, does not suffer enormous damage. Is this wise, given our partnership with Morocco on many fronts, including the fight against terrorism? I would ask the government to reconsider this and to consider whether it is prepared to explore the alternatives we have outlined. Or does it want to continue in great haste what should actually be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-5.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Schrijver. I would remind you that not the European Union, but our own Rules of Procedure determine who sits in the chair when. I suggest that we keep it that way, because then we will also be able to give a single speaker just a little more time than we have given. If we had Brussels to decide that, it would all become a little more problematic. I note that there are no more Members who wish to speak in the first term.
