ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. On this occasion, I am replacing my colleague Mr Greetje de Vries, who, as has been said, has been prevented from attending today because of personal circumstances. Today, we are talking about the Wet verwacht verwacht rentmarkt 2015, a law that houses several things, from rent-sum approach and income-dependent rent increase to temporary rental contracts and the relationship between housing associations and private landlords. The other point, the provision of data by the Tax Administration, was dealt with two weeks ago by means of a repair law without a vote. With this overall package, the government hopes to promote the flow of the rental market. The CDA Group shares this ambition and uses this debate to see whether the appropriate means are included in the law. We thank the Minister for the detailed answers to the questions put. The answer to our first question, whether this law on its various subjects is not contrary to the Hoekstra motion, motivates the Minister, quite frankly, with the view that these issues must be assessed in their context. The CDA Group gives the Minister the benefit of the doubt and uses the debate today to see whether this law can actually promote the flow of the rental market. A positive point is the introduction of the rent-sum approach. You can argue about what counts and doesn't count in the rent-sum approach and what stays out, but we're not going to do that right now. It's a bit of a coffee pie. We prefer to start, evaluate and then check whether the current approach is in line with the objective, with fine-tuning if necessary. Then there is a questionable subject for this Parliamentary Group: the income-dependent rent increase. As is undoubtedly remembered, the CDA's First Parliamentary Group voted against this law in 2013. We shared the government's point of departure to promote the flow into the rental market. The motto was "preventing scavenging." That was a problem that we recognized, but of which we did not consider the consequences of the then law to be sufficiently examined and of which we were convinced at that time that the main argument was not the flow, but, above all, the affordability of the landlord levy for corporations. Many of the questions we had remained unanswered. Is there sufficient alternative for people who are supposedly living crooked? Has the impact of cuts and measures on net disposable income of the income groups mentioned in the Income-related Rent Increase Act been considered during the crisis period? Is it the most effective way for data to be provided via the Tax Administration, or is it better to investigate tax alternatives? And in the background always played the landlord's tax. That levy is still a thorn in the eye of the CDA Group. Today is for an adjustment of the income-dependent rent increase that you cannot separate from the rent-sum approach. In June 2015, Aedes and the Woonbond concluded a social lease agreement based on the shared need to moderate the rents and initiate the flow. As a result, landlords are able to apply more customization, to establish a relationship between the rent increase and the price-quality ratio, and the rent-off approach ensures that the average rent increase of authorised institutions is limited to inflation plus 1%. Moreover, the income-dependent rent increase was not part of this social lease agreement; it would be investigated. The present law excludes groups from the income-dependent rent increase. In the old law, amendments have spared chronically ill and disabled people, a remarkable point for this debate today. Now families with two or more children are also spared. As these households have many other fixed costs, the income-dependent rent increase does not apply to households of four or more persons. The same applies, by passing on the amendment tabled and adopted by CDA and PvdA, also to pensioners. It is argued as a reason that pensioners have to surrender a lot in terms of purchasing power both in euros and as a percentage and have hardly any chance of flowing to a house of sale. This is what the CDA meant at the time: to see what the world looks like outside the Binnenhof and to think about what it means for certain groups when confronted with measures taken by different ministries. Looking beyond the boundaries of one's own ministry, what does that ultimately mean for people themselves? It is not just a plus in the budget here or a minus there, not only a regulated home or a liberalised home, but it is also, and perhaps most importantly, what it means for people, for their net disposable income and for their home or the lack of a suitable home. In short, without wanting black people: better late than never. In the eyes of the CDA Group, this is progressing compared to the old 2013 law. We do not know whether it is enough; the evaluation is coming soon. Then why didn't you wait for that? The Minister recently considered as one of the arguments not to opt for another tax variant for the income-dependent rent increase, that people were just used to this system and you didn't have to create unnecessary unrest, freely translated. Then why is this argument not valid now? Why not wait for the evaluation and then do it right in one go? The Minister and Aedes, the dome of housing corporations, are months into emergency. It could not be waited for, because then there is insufficient preparation time. This was in March. We would like to hear from the Minister whether this preparation period is sufficient. We hear that this is not the case. If that is not the case, the next date is 1 January 2017 and the evaluation could therefore be delayed. We would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. This would also do more justice to the social lease agreement concluded by the House Union and Aedes. We now know from the housing research that Thursday the percentage of tenants with (too) high incomes in cheap rental homes has fallen, but we also know that the number of low-income people living in too expensive a rental house to qualify for rent subsidies has grown. We heard the Minister publicly say that not all the measures taken have yet been incorporated into the investigation. We would like to hear from the Minister whether this will be the case in the forthcoming evaluation. We also thank the Minister for the investigations, such as the People's Housing State, which were presented last week, but we continue to look forward to the evaluation of the income-dependent rent increase. In the reply, the Minister writes in response to our question about the importance of involving the evaluation in this law, which I quote: "If this evaluation gives rise to this, the cabinet may propose modifications to the income-related rent increase included in this bill." At first glance a nice commitment, but yes, what do you do with that word "possible"? The members of the CDA Group ask the Minister to define or specify the word "possible." In other words, when will the Minister arrive and when will the Minister not come forward with amendments? After all, an indication of whether the income-dependent rent increase actually contributes to the flow on the rental market can only be given after the evaluation is known. We believe it is important that the results of the evaluation lead to something, otherwise an evaluation can be omitted. Fortunately, there is again and more and more being built. This increases the alternative for people, but not necessarily the flow. Another part of this draft law is temporary leases, i.e. fixed-term leases. Does the CDA think that this can contribute to the flow? The answer is yes. Does the CDA group consider that the tenant's position deserves protection? The answer is of course 'yes'. Due to the treatment in the House of Representatives, the question arises whether the contract still honours its name for a certain period of time. However well we understand that the position of the tenant deserves protection, we also see practical problems. After all, if we have understood correctly, the temporary contract is still binding on the landlord by nature and time, but by amending it in the Lower House no longer for the tenant. The tenant may, by means of the well-intentioned De Vries amendment in part No. 19, mid-term notice. Sometimes the solution to one problem creates another. According to the domes of dormitories and the domes of the higher education institutions VSNU and VH there is no system of guaranteed accommodation for exchange students anymore, as the contract for a certain period of time can be cancelled by the tenant. This guaranteed housing is often an obligation stemming from European exchange programmes such as Erasmus+. If students can "just" cancel the rent in the meantime, the reserved room will be empty and will incur high vacant costs which the student housekeeper and the educational institution will have to bear. After all, the reserved room is not easy to rent out, because a few months later a new quota of exchange students is on the doorstep. The CDA Group assumes that this is an unintentional side effect of the amendment and it attaches great importance to resolving it. Personally, I am not a person who is quick to wave motions, for that I attach too much importance to this means, but my group considers this subject to be urgent enough in order, if the Minister fails to respond adequately, to come forward with a motion if necessary in the second term. That is why we would like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes this problem. If so, how does he plan to fix this and if no, why isn't it a problem? I would add that this is a problem that concerns the Minister for Housing and National Service, but that it is equally a problem in which the leaders of OCW, who have incorporated internationalisation highly into the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education, are involved. I think a reaction from the government is important. The CDA Group would also like to know from the Minister whether the new temporary lease, introduced by this law, replaces the short-term contract. My group cannot find a clear answer to this because of the frequent amendment and the broad and sometimes multi-interpreting response. In response to a question from the PvdA Group, the reply states that the prohibition of short-term leases is related to the authorised institution's terms of reference. In replying to the CDA's question in the same pleading, the Minister stated that the new temporary contract would work better than the current use of the leases "by nature of short duration." The Minister has a point there, but the answers to the PvdA question and the CDA question seem to contradict each other. We therefore put this question to the Minister. Does the temporary rental contract introduced by this law replace the "contract by type of short duration"? Can there be a difference between authorised institutions and private landlords? That may be different treatment of private landlords and authorised institutions raises another question: why. After all, we are not talking here about the total housing supply, but about the regulated sector. The apartments with a rental price that makes it possible, partly depending on the tenant's income, to make use of the rental surcharge. The Minister motivates this for a number of reasons. In short, the private landlords were not involved in the agreement that Aedes and the Woonbond concluded on the rent-cost approach; the objective of private landlords is different from that of corporations, namely making money; it would give too much administrative burden to private landlords; there is no supervisory body for private landlords that can control this. Here, too, we were reminded of previous legislation, namely that of the income-dependent rent increase and that of the landlord tax. At that time, these arguments did not apply and they were introduced for both, on the understanding that, due to the administrative burden, the landlord levy would apply to landlords of more than ten homes. This equal treatment has never been a must for the CDA group in the beginning, but some consistency is not wrong. It's about the same housing offer. Why was it true that private landlords were involved in the proposal and not now? The CDA Group has a positive attitude towards this bill. We didn't want to go into all the points and commas, we just wanted to focus on the main line. The CDA Group was not in favour of the income-dependent rent increase, but sees an improvement in this law, partly due to the rent-based approach. Whether the income-dependent rent increase promotes the flow is the case, according to the studies presented last week, but the other way around there are more people with a small scholarship who are in an overpriced rental house. We think it is important to draw conclusions from the evaluation that is to come. We can imagine temporary contracts promoting the flow, but we need clarity on a number of points. It cannot be that by adopting this law and amending it, there is a problem in the world of higher education and in international student exchanges. We are very curious about the argument for whether or not equal treatment of private landlords and permitted institutions, then and now. We are therefore waiting for the Minister to reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I also thank you for staying within the time; this is how we help each other. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President, even though I am not Mr Flierman. Arrowman's probably good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u5	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a little transparent housing market. On the one hand, we have the largest social and subsidised housing stock in Europe. Yet the waiting lists for those who need to use this housing stock are far too long. On the other hand, we have a sales market which is also heavily subsidised by the mortgage interest deduction. This is unique in the world. Even the multimillionaire gets heavy subsidies. There are large deficits in the rental-mid-segment. There is far too little construction in that segment and the flow from the social housing stock is slow. Because of our subsidised properties, the prices of the properties in the Netherlands are relatively high, which hinders the flow of goods. Our housing market is extremely clumsy and bureaucratic and seems to be getting stuck more and more often. Politics likes to pursue income policy through the rental policy and every election a number of parties do not promise to get the mortgage interest deduction and then do so, because our system is not sustainable. It was for that reason that D66 decided a few years ago to cooperate with the cabinet in the housing agreement, starting from which to make the housing market fairer and more transparent. The current rent-sum approach builds on that. Much has happened in recent years for which the Minister also deserves compliments. However, the system is still unnecessarily complicated. Income policies are still being pursued through the rental policy. The housing market is not functioning with the emphasis on The long waiting lists for the people with the lowest incomes have remained. Little is being built in the middle segment. The flow stagnates as well. We are now going through a period of extremely low interest rates, so low that it is unhealthy for our economy. It is striking that, despite this, the flow to the sales market is not continuing. Is it the mortgage providers who set much stricter rules than before? Or is it the labour market that makes it difficult for people on temporary employment to get a mortgage? There are currently 5 million Dutch people on a permanent contract of employment. On the other hand, the growing number of now 4 million Dutch people who have flexible, temporary employment contracts or are self-employed. Their numbers are growing strongly. It can only be that this has an impact on the housing market in all its facets. What are the consequences for the housing market? And isn't that the main cause of the lack of flow from the social segment to the middle segment and from the middle segment to the retail market? I'd like a response from the Minister. The D66 Group believes that all the occasional and often bureaucratic measures we take may help something, but not enough to create a future-proof housing market. It is incorrect to conduct income policy through the housing market or through the healthcare system. It promotes bureaucracy, makes political decision-making incomprehensible and leads to more and more interventions with often unintended side effects, which in turn provoke new measures. The cabinet could have done something about this with the revision of the tax system. After all, a balanced income policy is carried out through taxes. However, the government decided to come up with very limited changes and actually only to introduce a tax reduction which is good for the economy and purchasing power, but which prevented us from looking together at a number of problems of our society: care, the housing market and the labour market. Certainly, a new tax system would not have solved everything, but it could have provided perspective. Showing perspective is one of the most important functions of politics. In short, we lacked an opportunity and a perspective, and so we continue to keep our eyes on this policy area. We also consider this bill to be a step in the right direction. This brings me to a number of questions to the Minister concerning the effectiveness of this bill. The aim of this proposal is to increase the flow of social housing stock to the middle segment. Can the Minister clarify how many citizens will flow into the middle segment in the coming years and how many homes will be released for those with the lowest incomes that are now on the waiting list? Moreover, this medium segment still largely needs to be built. The Minister believes it takes five years to achieve a new balance. In his opinion, there is, among other things, 4 billion ready to invest in pension funds. Municipalities must be prepared to make land available at acceptable prices. However, municipalities often have land prices in their books for higher amounts than they can sell for this purpose. They will therefore have to pay off the land prices again. Can the Minister tell us why he expects these investments to be released now? How does the cabinet monitor the effectiveness of the measures? Can the Minister give an indication of the number of mid-segment rentals to be built in 2017? The rents have been greatly increased in recent years. Also the people who are just above the subsidy limits, the middle groups, had to make a substantial extra contribution to their rental home. It led the approved institutions in the housing agreement with the Housing Association to voluntarily refrain from a possible further increase in the rents, in order to accommodate the people with the lowest rent income. However, this means something for their earning capacity and thus investment capacity. Not all housing corporations are happy with this, according to the lobby of, among other things, a number of Amsterdam corporations. How does the Minister assess the earning capacity of the corporations and thus their investment potential? Although the authorised institutions did not allow for a higher rent increase than previously, this does not apply to the private sector, which is allowed to increase further within limits. Of course, the private sector is not a partner in the agreements between Aedes and the Housing Union, but why has the Minister not made the same rules for the private sector? Isn't the risk that the distance between these landlords and the designated institutions is too great? D66 considers that fixed contracts should remain the norm in the rental policy. Temporary contracts are only acceptable to certain target groups. However, we believe that withdrawal for urgent personal use should be possible in order to keep accommodation available for certain target groups if the person concerned no longer belongs to the target group and if there is a suitable accommodation available for him or her. In this sense, crooked housing can also be avoided. There was already a large number of opportunities for temporary contracts: campus contracts, specific housing for disabled and elderly people, temporary contracts based on the vacant status law, landlady contracts, intermediate hire, the diplomatic clause and the youth contract adopted fourteen days ago. Now the cabinet proposes to add the temporary contract for two years and the temporary contract for independent living space for five years. All this to achieve further flexibilisation and flow. However, the Minister answers my questions that he has no idea how many people are going to pass through these additional measures. I'm very surprised. What are the assumptions on which the proposed policy is based? What does the Minister intend to achieve in concrete terms and why do these measures fit in with this? I'd like a response. After all, a further extension of temporary rental is detrimental to the tenants and their protection. The proposed extension is acceptable to us if it leads to less housing shortage and more flow, but the Minister is not very clear on this so far. I would therefore urge the Minister to clarify this point. In the proposal now amended by the House of Representatives, two groups are excluded from the measures to combat skews: pensioners and large families. For the exception of the first group, the pensioners, we have a great deal of understanding, but we have a lot of doubts about the exception of the last group. Why is an exception made for this group? Moreover, the composition of the family can fluctuate strongly. How should corporations deal with this in practice? Doesn't all this lead to more bureaucracy? The annual assessment of income is particularly important for the social rental sector. This test would initially take place once every three years, but this has now been adapted to an annual test. A number of tenants at the throughput limit have an annual variable income due to the labour market situation. What does this mean for the effectiveness of the income test, we ask the cabinet? It is too early for the D66 Group to assess the proposed proposal. We are therefore waiting with interest for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. The housing market in the Netherlands is a marked market. There is no balance in which tenants or buyers can find a suitable home within a reasonable period of time according to their wishes and financial possibilities. Supply and demand have had a difficult relationship with each other for many years. This is reflected in volatile price developments, increasing regional price differences and, in addition to people living in too cheap a house, more and more people living in too expensive a house. This is not only a statement by my group, but also by international organisations such as the OECD, which have for many years been pointing to structural weaknesses in the Dutch housing market, which, in the end, also pose risks for the stable development of our economy. It should be noted that my group is at least so concerned about what a poor housing market means for the living opportunities and enjoyment of low-income or middle-income people. Just last week, the CBS presented figures that provide a new dimension to the concept of skewed living. 18% of tenants currently live in an overpriced social housing for them. This is an increase of more than 10% since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008. More than half a million households live in a house that they can't actually afford. My group is very concerned about this. In the past, we used to talk about crooked living when people lived too cheaply, but the current graphs show an opposite trend. The number of people living too cheap decreased by 10% to the same share of 18% in the same period. We seem to solve one problem, but we are going to have a much bigger problem instead. Living too expensive leads to increased risk of debt and exclusion. And there's more concern. Tenants now pay €100 more in housing costs compared to 2009, while buyers pay €26 less. All in all, these figures show one bright spot: fewer people hold a house that is too cheap. However, the overall picture is worrying. Buying becomes cheaper and rental homes, often destined for people with lower and lower middle incomes, become much more expensive. The number of people living too expensive has more than doubled in less than seven years. The already difficult market is not working from any side or, at least as far as my group is concerned, in the wrong direction. Does the Minister know these figures and share our concerns? Living is a big audience good. As far as my group is concerned, in markets of great social importance, it is a public task to ensure a proper market organisation. He's not here right now. The question is whether the current law will change that. My group broadly distinguishes three main residential segments in the market. On one side of the spectrum we have the regulated rental market, where corporations rent out about 30% of the 7.5 million homes in the Netherlands. Through the rent allowance, the Reich contributes around 3.5 billion euros per year to housing costs of tenants. Liberalisation and sale of corporate housing and low investment in new affordable stock reduces the number of affordable corporate housing, where needs are growing. This law doesn't reverse that trend. On the other side of the spectrum we have the market of the properties, about 55% of the total stock. The government subsidises this market segment very heavily with an annual contribution of around 14 billion euros through the mortgage interest rate deduction. The low interest rate makes this market attractive for newcomers and forwarders. In response, prices are rising again in the most sought-after residential regions, particularly in the major cities. In shrinking areas, prices are under permanent pressure. With its heavy mortgage interest subsidies, the buying market is still the pet child of the Netherlands, a pet child who makes a heavy change in the normalization of the housing market as a whole. Doesn't that low interest rate make it possible to accelerate the reduction of mortgage interest? The European Commission also insists on this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Between these markets is the relatively small private rental market, which accounts for about 15% of the housing stock. In this segment supply is relatively low and prices are rising even faster than in the corporation sector. The current law does not put a brake on this, which makes this market segment less attractive for tenants to move towards this sector. The problem is that similar homes in the non-liberalised part of this sector often have less quality and higher rents than corporate homes. Then a few points more specifically about this law. For my group, we have the greatest concerns about the rapid increase in rents in recent years and the disappearance of affordable homes for people with low and lower middle incomes. If we adopt the current law, the rent increase will be 2.1% for people who earn less than €35,000; the group up to €44,000 will face a rent increase of up to 2.6%. The people up there, including households with a gross income of about €3,500 per month, can still get a rent increase of 4.6%. A brake to prevent everyone from having to deal with these massive rent increases is the rent-based approach. My group is in principle in favour of this, but unfortunately it will only have its full effect from 1 January 2017. From then on, the rent-based approach will have a lasting impact on the rents of the lowest paid, as the total rent will then be more than inflation plus 1%. That's a good thing. But now and also in the future, households can still face substantial increases just above that. There is even a certain incentive in the law to do so, because for the groups above €35.000 and €44.000 per year increases above 2.1% do not count in the rent. Does the Minister recognise this incentive and does he see with my group that people with a middle income but certainly not a top income will still face high burden increases? And does the Minister agree with my group that up to and including an income of €44.000, where there can still be substantial increases, the chances and benefits of mortgage interest relief are much less favourable than for higher incomes? That is all the more important, because this group of people does not find any comfort in the already not so big private rental market. Here the Minister does not limit the total increase in rents. My group regrets the fact that the Minister deviates from the social lease agreement between Aedes and the Houses Association on the issue of lower middle income, which provided for a similar brake on the increase in rents, which, fortunately, remains in place for the lowest income groups in accordance with the social lease agreement. We are also very concerned about the position of tenants in the free sector, because there is no such limit. It's not just top incomes that rent in the free sector. Is the Minister prepared to look at developments in this part of the market for the next few years and to slow down rent increases which significantly exceed inflation? My group receives from the corner of these tenants and also through the Housing Union many worrying signals about the growing gap in the value for money between the regulated and liberalised sectors. We would like to hear the Minister's view on this. My group believes it is very important that a sufficient stock of affordable rentals remains available for people with low and lower middle incomes. There are a number of factors that put pressure on this: the overstretched housing market in major cities in particular, the sale and liberalization of rental houses and the limited investment by corporations. The housing agreement provided for leasing, which limits the earning and investment capacity of corporations, while at the same time withdrawing the landlord's tax. The cabinet has chosen not to honour this part of the settlement agreement. Thus a dilemma arises: limiting the rents for the lowest category of income, still considerable increases in the category above, but all too little capital that corporations free up or free up depends on the corporation to do what is urgently needed for many reasons, namely to build affordable rentals. We would like to hear the government's view on this issue, partly in relation to the Agenda City, which is precisely intended to give the cities an impetus. As far as my group is concerned, these cities must remain for everyone. The effect that we now see in Amsterdam and, to a lesser extent, in cities like Utrecht and Haarlem, that cheap houses and therefore people with low and middle incomes are being squeezed into the edges of the city, my group considers undesirable. It strengthens the division in the cities and in society. What opportunities does the Minister see in the cooperation between corporations, municipalities and the Empire to reverse this undesirable division in cities and is he prepared to discuss this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u8	I have a question in connection with Mr Lintmeijer's speech on the cost-of-hire approach. You are right to express your concerns about low and low middle incomes. The law now includes a limit when inflation becomes plus 1% and when inflation plus 4%. Do you think that that limit should run differently, or do you think that the approach from gross income is too rigid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you for this question. I expect the solution to be in a combination of both. We think the rent-for-sale approach is a good one. We believe, however, that, especially in the lower middle income class, the increases are quite significant. You could solve that by playing with those boundaries, but you could also see if you could give the rent-sum approach a broader effect which would increase the damping effect. I see the solution in a combination of this, but I would like to hear how the cabinet views this. Does the Cabinet share our concern that flattening can be particularly important for the lower income groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u10	Maybe additional one more question. We have seen a few exceptions, such as pensioners and, in particular, multi-person households. On them, the government's reasoning is abandoned to use gross income. Is this what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u11	The danger of appointing specific target groups in order to achieve moderation is that there will be a certain degree of arbitrariness. I fully understand the political importance of avoiding large families. In some cases, I can imagine that, in large families, a build-up of burdens leads to financial problems. However, this accumulation of problems occurs in many more groups in society. We need to look closely at the instrument that is being applied, but not specifically targeted at one target group. Investment in affordable homes also includes investment in energy measures. The great CO and climate gains in the Netherlands can be achieved by investing heavily on the energy efficiency of the existing housing stock. The corporations have an important role to play in this; a role which, as far as my group is concerned, is still too little. In this context, we welcome the fact that house improvement and energy saving measures remain outside the rent, as this does not restrict the production of energy-efficient homes. However, this large scale approach does not come off the ground. Does the Minister recognise this and what can the Cabinet do to bring about a breakthrough in CO-saving measures in rental homes? Then broadening the possibilities for temporary rental. The cabinet wants to remove thresholds here to make temporary use of homes easier. We regret the fact that the cost of rent and the extension of temporary rental are regulated by a single law. I refer once again to the motion that has been adopted in this Chamber in order not to introduce divergent measures into one law. Where the rent-sum approach in relation to the maintenance of income-dependent rent increases still has a trade-off of pro and counter within the same package, we have to weigh two different measures against each other. This balance is difficult because we attach above all else to good rent protection. This law is tormenting it. Temporary leases can be particularly attractive to landlords, but for tenants, they have major disadvantages and are detrimental to living security. My group, like D66, can imagine that, in specific circumstances and for certain target groups, such as young people with a temporary low income, temporary contracts offer a solution and promote the flow. Temporary contracts, however, should not become the norm. However, this bill is a significant step in that direction, as the Minister only excludes self-employed social housing, the SGEI housing. Otherwise, there doesn't seem to be any restrictions. In addition, it is only after five years that the Minister intends to evaluate whether the temporary extension actually leads to less vacancy and flow and to what extent. We now lack a specific support from the cabinet and we do not see any quantification of the intended effect. That is why, to this extent, enlargement is becoming too much of a leap in the dark for us. Can the Minister state exactly what effects he expects in which specific segments of the market? Does the Minister agree with us that it is necessary to keep a finger on the wrist from the outset and not to evaluate it after five years? My group looks at this law with mixed feelings. We welcome measures such as the rent-sum approach which limits the far too large increase in rents. The effect of the income-dependent rent increases is to some extent contrary to this. We believe that extending the scope for temporary leases is too unbiased. In general, this law does not provide a solution for major defects in the housing market. We do not see much prospect of making necessary investments in affordable housing. We are now waiting for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. This bill has been welcomed by my group. During the written preparation we asked some questions. We thank the Minister for his reply. For the most part, we find the answers convincing. We would like to come back to two questions later. First of all, we must answer a preliminary question. Are we in breach of the Hoekstra motion? This bill is about the rent, the income-dependent rent increase and temporary leases. Are these individual legislative proposals to be dealt with separately? Or is there coherence? The VVD sees a clear connection. The limitation of the rent will reduce rent revenue, i.e. less investment. This decline is offset in the temporary contracts and in the income-dependent rent increase. Temporary contracts provide new offers. The income-dependent rent increase gives an extra rent return. It needs to be re-invested. One part serves as compensation for the other. That calls for joint treatment. On behalf of the VVD, I would like to say a few words about the rent, the liberalisation, the income-dependent rent increase, the temporary contracts and the termination of temporary contracts. First of all, the rent. This offers unmistakable advantages. It leads to policy freedom for landlords and offers room for local customization. Parties want it for themselves. In June 2015, the House Union and Aedes concluded an agreement. Private investors were not involved, but they are in a different position. They have a return target. An average of the rent increases of all private landlords is difficult to establish and there is no supervision as with the corporations. The rent is determined on inflation plus 1%. This means an important moderation for tenants in the lowest income category. My group wholeheartedly agrees with this rent-based approach, also in view of the difficult economic situation and the Nibud reports on payment problems for tenants. Objections are, of course, that the income of corporations is declining, there is less flowing and less new construction is being carried out. However, these concerns can be addressed in several ways: expansion of the free sector, division of SGEIs and non-DAEB, income-dependent rent increase, an appeal to municipalities to sell building land, and liberalisation. Everything helps, although it is not always with the speed we would like. Our appreciation of the rent depends partly on the question: what do you put in it and what do you leave out? This bill takes harmonisation and liberalization into account, leaving out renovation and income-dependent rent increases. We agree with leaving out the last two. Renovation, especially energy saving, is needed. Existing dwellings cannot be excluded. Only, the corporations will in future have to charge the costs directly to the incumbent tenants. They can no longer shift these burdens to new tenants at the next mutation. We also agree with that. Income-dependent rent increase promotes the flow. The additional income directly benefits new investments for those seeking housing in the lowest income group. The VVD welcomes harmonisation. Equal rental prices for equal housing. Therefore, we would have preferred harmonisation to be excluded from the rent. Solving different rental prices of identical homes is going to be slower than now. We regret that and ask the Minister what are the reasons for including harmonisation in the rent. My group has difficulty with the fact that liberalisation is part of the rent. We expect this to limit the scope for liberalization. Liberalised rental fills the gap in the middle segment from €700 to €1,000. It contributes to the flow. Liberalising and selling also fill the middle segment in the free sector. It also produces a yield, which can be used directly for new construction, preferably suitable and affordable new construction. Of course, liberalization must not lead to an even greater shortage of social housing for the target group. As long as the proceeds of housing sales are re-invested and as long as there is a target group of 1.7 million households and a stock of 2.1 million social housing, of which 900,000 are to be liberalised, the border is not reached soon. Moreover, this border can be better monitored at regional level, because there are major regional differences. From this point of view, liberalisation has only advantages: the flow, more appropriate building and growth of the free sector without disadvantage to the social target group with an income below €38.000. Then why does the Minister put a brake on liberalisation? We have not been able to read the answer clearly in the reply. However, we consider it important and therefore submit the question to the Minister again. Whether income-dependent rent increases contribute to a reduction in the distortion of living is not certain. It is clear, however, that crooked housing has decreased by about 10%. WoON 2015 This has been mentioned more often... indicates that the number of cheap crooks has fallen to 18%. It seems difficult to determine to what extent the income-dependent rent increase has contributed to this. That is why we are looking forward with interest to the assessment which the Minister has announced. In any case, crooks pay more rent. And it will be invested directly, otherwise the extra rent must be included in the rent. An important objection is the often heard lack of an alternative to skewers. They have nowhere to go. The Minister has taken a number of measures, in particular to get the middle segment moving. The signals are hopeful, but it takes time. This bill exempts pensioners and families with children from the income-dependent rent increase. This choice for exempted groups seems rather random. Will the Minister explain again why these exceptions have been made? Next, some comments on fixed-term leases. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats assumes that these temporary contracts meet a need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u13	I would like to return to Mr Schouwenaar's remark that a few groups have been chosen at random to be excluded. Could he think of a few more groups for which an exception should also be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u14	Perhaps we could, but we do not want to do that. Our concern is that as more exceptions come, the means of the income-dependent rent increase will lose its meaning. Of course, it is nice to stand up for groups that are experiencing payment problems, partly as a result of the income-dependent rent increase, but we must bear in mind why it was ever introduced, I believe, three years ago. This has been done to give an incentive to the flow, but also to make crooks pay more rent, always below the maximum acceptable rent, and thus contribute to the new building. I use the word 'lover' in the neutral sense of the word, there is nothing reproachable in it, but they do occupy the places that are not intended for them, but for the lowest category of inhabitants, with an income below €39.000. Those are the people who are already so hard to get to work and have no roof over their heads. We do not know exactly how long that list is, but we do know that it is long and that it should not be placed further on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u15	In the end, the bill includes the exclusion of a number of groups. That was done on the basis of data from the Nibud. The Nibud may even mention other groups that are at an income of €39,000 and, because they are being taxed more heavily or for whatever reason, will be in trouble if they get 4% extra rent increase in the future. We should therefore also look at other things than the rigid limit of €39.000 gross income. Or does Mr Schouwenaar disagree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u16	I think it is a good idea to look at the overall picture of income and expenditure and not just the component of living there. There are a lot of components that determine someone's financial situation. If that is what Mr Schalk means, I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u17	I have heard Mr Schouwenaar say a few times that the income-dependent rent increase, which still applies from a household income of €34,000 per year, is not only beneficial to the flow. Money is also being generated, which can be re-invested in new buildings for the lowest incomes. Could Mr Schouwenaar address the issue of tenants in private landlords? They also receive an income-dependent rent increase. Does it also generate money for new construction in the eyes of Mr Schouwenaar? Or does that money just disappear into the pockets of the commercial landlords?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u18	The last sentence is not very friendly, but let me take it a little more neutrally. Yes, I think it is; at least this may be the case. However, Mr Köhler also knows that this is a small part of the total regulated stock. Most of the regulated stock, 80%, belongs to the corporations. For the corporations, it will soon become a rule that the income-dependent rent increase must be re-invested in accordance with performance agreements with the municipalities, otherwise it does not count. That seems to me to be an important incentive. Once again, I do not want to detract from the sympathy for certain groups that are in trouble or are in trouble. It's also regularly rappelled about it. However, it seems to me that it is good to keep in mind that there is a group that is much more in trouble. Those are the house seekers who don't have a roof over their heads right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u19	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u20	I will continue my speech with a few comments on the temporary leases. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats assumes that these temporary contracts meet a need. People who are involved in divorce, ex-convicts, GGZ patients, people with temporary jobs and people in a basically unlimited number of other circumstances will be able to use them. We expect this to increase the offer and that landlords will also participate in it. After two years there is no guarantee of replacement living space. Not everyone will want that, however, and the registration time on the waiting list continues. My group questions the way in which the bill regulates the termination of the temporary contract. Although the contract ends automatically, the landlord must send a reminder to the tenant one to three months before the expiry of the lease. If the landlord leaves this, the temporary contract will be converted into an indefinite contract. The right to rent is far from simple, so I can imagine that sending such a reminder letter is overlooked, that the letter is delivered wrongly or that otherwise it goes wrong. Then the extension of the contract to an indefinite period is a sanction which, in our view, is too heavy and not effective. That sanction does not affect the incumbent tenant and not the landlord, but the unknown successor tenant, the house seeker for whom it is already so difficult to find a place. It could lead to a decrease in the willingness to rent again rather than increase. We wonder what the added value of such a reminder is. Why such a heavy and ineffective sanction? All in all, we see many positive aspects of this bill. It is not a total solution to the housing market problems, but it cannot. It does provide some opportunities for improvement, step by step. We only have ideas when we propose to slow down liberalization and when we move from temporary to unlimited rental periods in the event of formal errors. We look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u21	I call Mr Köhler. Looking at the timetable, I note that he will be the last speaker of this morning. Mr Verheijen will be the first speaker after lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. The rents are hardly affordable for many tenants. Over the past three years, the rents in the regulated sector have been pushed up by the landlord's tax, resulting in a 12% rent increase. Were the rents in the Netherlands ever low in relation to those in the neighbouring countries, nowadays there is the opposite. This situation has been dealt with by the housing corporations and the Housing Association, as the representative of the tenants, with their social rental agreement. The intention is to moderate the annual rent increase. On average, with inflation plus 1%, rents are allowed to rise via the so-called rent sum approach. This includes the rent increase due to the harmonisation of rentals, the increase made by new tenants. As this average is 0.6% of the total rental price of a landlord, an average maximum rent increase of inflation plus 0.4% remains for the incumbent tenants. Although the SP, given the already high rent level in the Netherlands, considers any rent increase above inflation undesirable, we consider the lease agreement to be a major step in the right direction after years of an excited rent explosion. Around this average maximum of 0.4%, the social landlord can still vary by applying a maximum increase in inflation plus 2.5% for certain properties. They are houses that, given their quality, have a relatively low rent. But against such an increase, there must be five houses whose rent increases with no more than inflation in order to remain within the maximum rent increase. The draft law that we are discussing now raises the social rental agreement to the law, but unfortunately that has not been the case. The government has adopted a large number of measures which change the agreement for some tenants to the contrary: not rent moderation, but additional rent increase. In breach of the social rental agreement, the government again comes up with the additional income-dependent rent increase of 4% per year for so-called skews. And a crooked citizen is immediately by this law anyone with a household income above €39,000 a year. All our efforts in writing to get the Minister to explain why someone with an income of €40,000 per year and a rent of €700 per month would be living too cheaply, stumbled upon a wall with the Minister. He refuses to support his position with figures. The extra income-dependent rent increase also affects tenants in a house that still has the rent protection, the regulated rent, but whose home has already crossed the limit of €710 per month for a long time. Why you are crooked with an annual income of over €39,000 and a monthly rent of €800, the Minister will not want to precalculate. Similarly, the excuse for the income-dependent rent increase that the middle-income tenant must transfer from the social sector to a more expensive segment does not apply in this case. Nor does this tenant fall within the definition of the minister of crookedness. That is why I ask the Minister: why do you take the opportunity to hit this group of tenants with the extra income-dependent rent increase, not from the law? Today, the income-dependent rent increase can still be of benefit to housing corporations: according to this new law, it is only possible to make local agreements between landlords, tenants and municipalities. Unfortunately, the tenants have no right of consent. Private and commercial landlords of regulated homes, on the other hand, get completely free play. For their tenants with an annual income above €39.000, the rent increase becomes inflation plus 4%. For their tenants with an income below that limit, the rent increase becomes inflation plus 2,5%, because for these landlords the limited rent increase does not apply. The percentage that the social landlords can apply for a small part of their homes, the relatively low rent part, may be applied by private landlords for all their homes. This is even higher than in recent years, when the rent increase rate for low-income tenants plus 1.5% and with low middle-income inflation plus 2%. The Minister defends the exclusion of private landlords from the rental sum approach and the corresponding limitation of the rent increase with varying arguments, which we all consider to be not valid. First, the earning capacity of these landlords would be affected too much. Of course, the Minister could not further support that statement. At that time, the administrative burden on these landlords would become too high. The Minister has not been able to support this either. The Minister simply seems to think it is appropriate that the rent moderation of social landlords in the draft law is accompanied by an additional rent increase among private and commercial landlords and their more than 400,000 tenants with a regulated rent. The SP rejects this unequal treatment of tenants with one or the other landlord. The fact that the tenants of private and commercial landlords receive an annual rent increase even more than has been the case in recent years is unacceptable to us. We ask the Minister to come up with proposals to apply the rent-sum approach and the corresponding limited increase in rent-sum for the housing with a regulated rental of private and commercial landlords. The additional advantage of this is that it saves the government 14 million euros in rent surcharges every year. An alternative could be to limit the rent increase for dwellings that remain outside the rental sum approach to 1% plus inflation. We also pointed this out in the written consultation. Will the Minister respond to this idea? Last week, WoonResearch Netherlands 2015 appeared. This shows that the number of expensive skeptics, people who pay too much rent because of their income, has increased by hundreds of thousands in recent years. More than half a million low-income households dependent on rent surcharges pay more than about €600 rents per month and are not compensated by the rent surcharge. The rent has become priceless for them, not least because of the high rent increases in recent years. We asked the Minister earlier why he only proposes measures against so-called cheap skeptics and not expensive skeptics. He did not reply, apart from a reference to the appropriate allocation of a house with new tenants. But that doesn't help the 530,000 households who now live too expensive. Will the Minister come up with proposals to meet this group, for example with a freeze on their rent? And does the Minister not agree that the private sector's proposed rent increase of inflation plus 2.5% is totally undesirable for the 80,000 expensive skeptics? In the present draft law, the rental measures are linked to proposals to introduce more types of temporary leases. We believe that this is an improper link. In the written consultation, the Minister did not provide any valid arguments for this link either. We regret the fact that the government is in error again shortly after the Hoekstra motion has been adopted. I come now to a piece of text which Mr Pijman also quoted. We have all the campus contract, temporary contracts for elderly and disabled homes, temporary contracts based on the Leegstandswet, the landlady contract, the intermediate rental in the absence of owner or tenant and the rent by its nature of short duration, such as a holiday home or a swap house. And since two weeks, there's the youth contract. These existing forms are extended in this bill: the intermediate rental is possible for several consecutive tenants, the Leegstandwet also allows temporary rental of rented houses for sale and with a campus contract PhD candidates can also be housed. However, all these enlargements are not enough for the government. In addition to the types of temporary contracts I mentioned, there are two new forms. They go far beyond the previous ones, because they are no longer limited to specific groups or situations. Firstly, the temporary contract for up to five years for independent living space. This contract was originally intended for status holders, but under the motto "no discrimination" it becomes applicable to all tenants. In this way, the temporary rental contract is generalised for independent living space. We see no reason to call into question the contract for an indefinite period of time for all independent living quarters. It is precisely in this sector that temporary leases are not necessary at all. If tenants can flow to an independent home, they won't let that happen. If they can't get an independent home yet, we shouldn't let them get out of their independent living space. Would the Minister like to shed his light on this one more time? A second new form is the temporary rental contract for two years for independent homes. For social landlords there are still rules for which specific groups this is intended, but private landlords may apply it indefinitely for their 560,000 homes. That is where it threatens to become a pilot contract. My fear and my expectation is that private and commercial landlords will be the standard to offer tenants a temporary contract in the first instance. The landlord can then, according to the findings of cases, extend or not extend this. We want to avoid that situation. That is why we ask the Minister to agree to allow this type of contract only for specific groups in the commercial sector. All in all, the growth of temporary rental contracts runs out of the standard of the rental contract for an indefinite period of time; a standard that we attach great importance to. Therefore, the SP does not need new forms of temporary contracts, especially if they are not limited to specific situations and specific groups. We are curious about the Minister's response to our questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-eerstekamer-3.u24	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
