ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kooiman, on behalf of the SP Group, to mention the rules of the game: two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason we have a VAO today is that we asked for a letter about the workload and absenteeism among staff in detention institutions. I must say that we have received a rather embarrassing letter from the Secretary of State, because he actually denies that there is a big problem. The absenteeism is no less than 7%, with outliers at 7.4%. That's way above average for any public service. I think we can't leave it at that. That is why I have made a fine motion for the Secretary of State and my fellow chamber members. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the workload of prison staff and absenteeism remain high;]] [[noting that the Safety and Justice Inspectorate has warned that any further shrinkage of staff and expansion of multiple cell use may entail safety risks;]] [[Whereas due to the shortage of staff by the Hague Penitentiary Institution, it has been decided to proceed to partial closure in order to carry out the work in the prisons in a responsible manner;]] [[considers that these actions are contrary to the wishes of the Chamber not to close prisons in addition to the current master plan;]] [[calls on the Government not to proceed to partial closures of judicial establishments or to take alternative measures to reduce the workload and ensure security within prisons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-666]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u3	That's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u4	Good. Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u5	I have 20 seconds to put my question to the Secretary of State. I understand that in the security field, for example with the PI Almelo, there are vacancies that cannot be filled, because everything needs to be coordinated first. The Transport and Support Service must fill it in, but it hires the implementation externally. I think that's a bit of a pocket/jacket bag. Why can't these security guards themselves be hired by the PI Almelo so they get a good education? 'Cause they're not getting one right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u6	Mrs Helder of the PVV Group will not speak. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr. Chairman. In addition to what Mrs Kooiman says, namely the enormous workload in the prison system, which still leads to a high absenteeism, I would like to know today from the Secretary of State whether he has already had talks with the Judicial Institutions Department to see how the funding can be made fair. There is still the impression that on the one hand there is a line game and a post occupation and that we are looking at exactly how a device should run, but on the other hand it does not seem to have been provided with the necessary resources. When people are structurally walking on their gums, they get sick. That is the beginning of the misery that Mrs Kooiman rightly describes. So we would like an answer to that today. This workload exposes an extra vulnerable point in the prison system. The staff is working on the system of promotion/degradation and should therefore have a very good view on the prisoners. We want to see only good behavior rewarded and bad behavior punished, but you see that all kinds of things slip through it, because the staff almost can't make it. On this point, too, we would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he ensures that this quality is preserved and that the penitentiary edge we once conceived with each other continues to exist now that the workload is too high and the absence of disease is worryingly high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u8	I'm happy to reopen the meeting with all kinds of pleasure. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u9	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kooiman has in part no. 666 motion for a resolution on PI Haaglanden and the closure of which there is no mention. As we exchanged in the AO, I do not close a prison in the sense that I say: that prison is closing, that is no longer a prison. I did say, if you have excess capacity, you have to be smart about filling cells. You have to ask yourself where exactly you fill your cells and you have to concentrate on certain places for work safety and work pressure, where there is tightness. Then you'll just have a decent occupation in another department, including as far as staff is concerned. So that prison isn't going to close. People keep their jobs, and this doesn't sort out for other decision-making. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u10	Mrs Kooiman needs an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u11	Yes, because years ago, the demolition plan for the prison system was also put into effect. Then we saw that there were gradually partial closures, which concentrated the staff and the prisoners. As a result, the workload shifted locally. The motion calls for careful consideration to be given to the non-part closure of these prisons so that the staff can be deployed evenly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u12	You now repeat what has been discussed in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u13	Yes, because the Secretary of State reads the motion differently than I explain to her. I'm not saying it needs to be completely closed. I say that there should be a partial closure so that the pressure on the prisons can be distributed a little more evenly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u14	I have to concentrate on the question of where empty positions are and where they are not. Of course, we shut down the prison cells every day. In that sense, we're closing down, but I'm not gonna have people guarding empty cells. That's not convenient, and that's not good for the workplace either. Of course, the workplace does not benefit from the fact that one prison would be overwhelmed with prisoners to keep the other empty, but that is not the case at all. It is wise to keep the work together where you can do it in a good way with the staff that is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u15	No, because the Secretary of State can also choose not to put all prisoners in one cell, but simply to put one prisoner in one cell, so that the workload for the staff is actually reduced. The Secretary of State can look into that, too. In my motion I am not recording exactly how he does that, but I am saying that he is looking closely at this in order to reduce the workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u16	I insist that we have looked at this in every way. I therefore continue to dissuade the motion, because I really do not see that we are taking final decisions now. On the contrary, we act wisely by bringing the work to wherever there is human space and by not using forced cell use in places where there is human force. Mrs Kooiman asked a question about the PI Almelo. Indeed, we also hire people flexibly, because looking to the future, too, you have to be sensible and you have to be careful when attracting new staff. A recruitment procedure will be launched in the short term for the function group of plant security officers, but flexible staff will always be used to cover temporary shortages and not to employ people who may not be employed later. In the letter, I do not in any way detract from the fact that there is a disproportionately high absenteeism in the prison organisation. The percentages come from the letter; that already underlines that I do not deny this. This has partly to do with the fact that it is just extremely difficult and heavy work, which is not average. Of course, that does not mean that you have to be patient, but this is one of the explanations. In many positions within the prison system, the staff simply have a heavy job that is heavily burdened. We also see differences between p.i.Let's see. The consequences of reorganisations also make themselves felt harder in one prison than in the other. So that too is a cause. These factors can also be found in the letter. The light good news is that the increase in absenteeism has flattened and come to a standstill. We therefore now have the task of ensuring, as the reorganisation stabilises, that absenteeism can be reduced again, especially in prisons where absenteeism is disproportionately high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u17	You say that no new people are being hired in Almelo, given the future that is coming. In my view, however, we had just agreed that we do not yet know what the future will be and that this new situation is an open situation. I would say: if there are vacancies in a normal situation, just new people will be hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u18	In a normal, normal situation you can catch temporary needs with external hire. That's not new. However, I have also indicated that, in the short term, the recruitment procedure for the function group of plant guards will be restarted for the staff we need structurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u20	The Secretary of State says it's actually temporary...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u21	No, we're not gonna start another debate. I'm sure we'll have another general discussion or something later. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u22	I have one more answer. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked if I had already spoken about the line play and the postal network. I haven't had that conversation yet. It's scheduled in my agenda on November 8th. Then I'll inform the Chamber about how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-18.u23	I'm gonna look around a little bit longer. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given. I propose that we vote on the motion next Tuesday.
