ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u1	Given the late hour, I would like to talk to the spokesmen about how we deal with this debate. For that, I shall suspend the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u2	We will begin with the contribution of the Lower House in the first term. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Schut-Welken on behalf of the VVD. I would ask colleagues to be as brief as possible in view of the late hour and the debate that we still want to have, especially in terms of interruptions. I would also ask the Minister, whom I welcome in this debate, to take this into account in his reply. Let's see if we can work this out with each other at a good but also firm pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your willingness to chair this debate at this late hour. The law we are discussing today has a long, bizarre history. The Rutte I cabinet was committed to restricting the export of benefits. To this end, a number of laws have been made. I refer to the principle of housing law, the law restricting exports of child benefit and child-related budget and the end of world coverage in the event of temporary stay in the Health Insurance Act. Benefits are primarily intended to compensate for the costs we incur in the Netherlands. The country-of-home principle is therefore a very reasonable law, which states that the amount of child benefit, disability benefit and survivor's benefit must be adjusted to the price level of the country in which you live. Because you're not supposed to be rich from benefits. This law was therefore adopted in 2011 by a large majority in the Lower House. In a country like Morocco, the cost of living is about 40% lower than in the Netherlands. The minimum wage there is about €250 per month. A survivor's benefit according to the Dutch calculation of €1.155 is therefore four times the minimum wage of Morocco. The VVD considers it important that we handle the money that has been generated through premiums and taxes by people in the Netherlands. Of course, it cannot be the intention that someone in Morocco, who receives a Dutch benefit, should be richer in this way. Since January 2013, payments on the basis of the country of residence principle have been reduced by 40%. People in Morocco, who receive benefits from the Netherlands, have successfully challenged this reduction before the courts. The Dutch law does not apply to people in Morocco, because the bilateral treaty with Morocco from 1972 goes above the Dutch law. In order to reduce these benefits, the agreement with Morocco should be amended. However, the country has so far refused to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mrs Schut-Because of the VVD, life in Morocco is cheaper. It is slightly cheaper than in the Netherlands, but life in Poland and Spain is also slightly cheaper than in the Netherlands. Is the VVD going to submit a proposal to take away benefits and child benefit there? Furthermore, Mrs Schut says that the money that the Dutch are making is going to Morocco. No, it's money these people, the fathers and mothers and grandpas, have worked for. They have paid contributions and built up the Netherlands, so they have built rights. So they're not getting something that belongs to Mrs. Schut-Welken, but something that belongs to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u5	The VVD has taken initiatives and supported others to apply the principle of housing in Poland and other European countries and not to export child benefit outside the Netherlands at all. As far as the building up of rights is concerned, there are a lot of people who pay taxes in the Netherlands and do not have children. So they don't get child support either. So you get a benefit if you need it, and the amount of the benefit should be at such a level as to meet the cost of living as far as the VVD is concerned. That's what we're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u6	So, Mrs Schut, you say to a couple who are going to divorce and whose lady or gentleman has been paying taxes and contributions in the Netherlands for years and who chooses to live in Morocco, simply: bad luck, we take the benefit and the child benefit. You also say to a widow: you have to live with your children with a poor income. But in Poland, Spain and all the other countries, you just allow it, despite the fact that you wouldn't want it. So you measure with two sizes. I also ask the VVD why she is in such a hurry. Mrs Schut, why are you rushing to take child benefit and widows' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u7	In my view, the level of benefit should simply be proportionate to the cost of living. The VVD is in favour of the country-of-origin principle being applied in social security, which can reduce benefits. Now that Morocco has run away from the agreement that was in place, that agreement has not been possible. Then the ultimate remedium is to cancel the treaty. That's where we stand. I shall now proceed with my speech. The VVD has always preferred to amend the Convention over termination. We therefore held the plenary session in May and September 2015 in order to give the Minister further room for agreement. On 29 September 2015 it seemed to be finally there. An agreement was reached and announced. As of January 2016, benefits would be reduced, starting with 10%. A protocol amending the Convention had only to be signed, but Morocco itself pulled the plug in mid-December 2015. That's the border for us. The Netherlands cannot meet Morocco's additional requirement to extend the scope of the territory for benefits to Western Sahara. If the Netherlands does not set a deadline itself, Morocco will continue to stretch. Morocco has nothing to lose; the Netherlands does. Every year that benefits do not go down means a minimum of €17,5 million or a maximum of €39,5 million for Dutch taxpayers and profits for those who receive benefits in Morocco. The VVD wants those benefits to go down, because we in the Netherlands have so agreed in law. If a friendly nation does not want to respond to this, we must draw the ultimate consequence. We are not prepared to prolong the process further and risk postponing termination for a second year. If Morocco signs the agreement that is now in force during the parliamentary debate on this law of withdrawal, that is fine. But otherwise there will be termination as of 2017. Five years of negotiation has been more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u8	You have another interruption on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u9	The VVD thinks it will save 17,5 million a year, as I hear from Mrs Schut. Mrs Schut, do you know that exports from the Netherlands to Morocco amount to 7 million and that we import 350 million? Do you know that hundreds of thousands of people go on vacation to Morocco? This arrogant colonial behaviour of the VVD destroys many trade relations and contacts with Morocco. A lot of VVD entrepreneurs could miss out on the contracts they're signing right now. As a result, a lot of people here in the Netherlands can become unemployed. Do you not think that these costs are higher than the EUR 17,5 million you think you can save every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u10	I think it's been calculated by the Ministry before. I do not have those calculations at present, but the loss on exports to Morocco that Dutch entrepreneurs would suffer would be minimal and certainly not proportionate to the 39.5 million saved if the treaty were to be terminated now. We are saving 17.5 million when we amend the Treaty. If it is cancelled, we will save 39.5 million. In the end, it is not for us to do the money, but it is for the principle that we pass laws, such as the Homeland Law principle in social security. That law has been widely adopted in the House of Representatives and we want to see it reflected in treaties. If Morocco doesn't, you'll have to decide to cancel the treaty eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u11	You're putting pressure on 410 years of friendship. During World War II, Moroccan soldiers fought to liberate the Netherlands from the Germans. There are 400,000 people of Moroccan descent in the Netherlands. It is about relations with a country in North Africa that is booming and will have enormous economic growth in the future, which is extremely important for Dutch entrepreneurship and the future of the Netherlands. You say it's a principle, but isn't it to bring the xenophobic voters of the PVV back to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u12	In fact, as I have just said, the VVD has been in favour of amending the agreement with regard to withdrawal. We have therefore also supported the Minister in his efforts to amend the Treaty. It is not the Netherlands but Morocco that has run away from the agreement. I therefore do not support your argument. I have a number of questions for the Minister about the recent written exchanges. What is the status of the Association Decision with the EU? There have been several messages throughout the entire journey. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yes. I'm always trying to find a logical moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'm going to ask a lot of questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u15	Then let's put Mr Van Weyenberg's question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u16	I did have a question on another subject. I understand Mrs. Schut's approach. It has always been very clear how the VVD fraction is in this. I'll ask her to share her weighting with us, because this isn't free, I say. We are running a real risk, and we have even seen that for cooperation. For example, the control of whether the benefits we still have to provide are legitimate is likely to stop if we unilaterally cancel the agreement. Morocco has already taken steps to cooperate in the expulsion of foreign nationals even now when there was a withdrawal. How does Mrs Schut weigh the price of what she wants, namely to reduce those benefits? The very high risk of this is that cooperation can be stopped in the expulsion of foreigners, in the control of the benefits that we still have to provide and in the fight against welfare fraud because we can now see if people in Morocco have a home? Both things are true. I think Mrs Schut should weigh that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u17	We have also talked about this before. We have always taken the view that the less benefits you export, the less you have to check for fraud. In addition, the SVB has always stated in its annual reporting that the legality of the checks in Morocco was not always equally reliable. So it was actually very difficult to check for fraud. So I think it's a relatively small amount of money. Of course, you want to maintain any fraud, but we consider that the less benefits you export, the less you have to maintain because of fraud. The VVD is also deeply concerned about cooperating in the readmission of illegal and criminal Moroccans. That is why we would have preferred an agreement. But we say: if you are never prepared to cancel the treaty, you will deteriorate your negotiating position, because Morocco has nothing to lose and nothing to gain. In the end, our consideration is that we must be prepared, as we are, to denounce the treaty. If we cannot reach an agreement, we must have the laws adopted in our country, such as the Homeland Law, prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u18	I am glad that Mrs Schut now also points out that it is a trade-off. It seemed just like you'd be out of your mind if you were against it. But no, it's a trade-off. I understand and share her concern about the expulsion of aliens. I have another question about the benefits. It is clear from all the documents that every year 1.2 million in unjustified benefits no longer have to be paid by the checks in Morocco. Mrs Schut just didn't mention that much. Let me say that my group thinks that is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yes, we think that is a lot of money, but at the same time we see that we are spending at least 17.5 million less if we apply the principle of housing in Morocco. If the treaty is terminated, it will amount to 39.5 million. That's the trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u20	You will continue with your questions to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u21	I come to the status of the Association Decision with the EU. There have been several reports throughout the whole process surrounding the termination of this Convention. The negotiations on the decision had already been concluded in 2011. It was due to start in 2014. It would then enter into force in 2015. Last Monday we received a letter stating that the official negotiations have been concluded and that the Association Decision will enter into force in 2016. Can the Minister shed more light on this process? It is essential for the effects of the implementation of this law. If the Association Decision were to enter into force in 2017, there would appear to be no material difference between termination and amendment of the Convention. What's the Minister's assessment? There is also much uncertainty about the impact of the Advisory referendum Act. First, the Minister spoke in his letter about a deadline of 1 February for treatment in the Upper Chamber. Now we are talking about 23 February. What exactly is the basis for these deadlines? What is that date of February 23rd based on? Can the Minister explain this? Is it possible, under the law of the Treaties, for a referendum to reverse the cancellation before 1 July after an emergency? The letter of 11 January also states that the Minister does not qualify the law as a law whose entry into force cannot be delayed. How exactly are we supposed to interpret that? What the Minister is actually saying is that this law, because it has been negotiated for so long, has no urgency. But if the Chamber has dealt with the Parliamentary Act, it also wants the Convention to be denounced by 1 January 2017, so it is urgent for us. Does the Minister share that urgency? In 2012, an implementation test was carried out by the SVB on the termination of the Convention. The test was positive. Just a month in office, in November 2012, Minister Asscher stated that he was finally prepared to terminate the agreement with Morocco. The VVD believes the moment has come to cancel the treaty. We are hopeful that it will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u22	Is Mrs Schut under the assumption that if this bill is adopted, the treaty will be terminated? That would be a misunderstanding, because it should have tabled an amendment to that effect. The proposal expressly states that it is a intention to terminate. In the minister's letter he writes that he, even if the First and Second Chambers have passed the law, will not send the letter for real cancellation.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Why has Mrs Schut not tabled an amendment to cancel the treaty immediately? Now it is merely a plan that the government may or may not, directly or later, carry out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u23	It is an intention to terminate the Convention. As soon as that happens, it follows from this Decree that the Minister must do it before 1 July. As a result, the Convention will be terminated as of 1 January 2017. Of course, the Minister will have to inform Morocco of this. It is not the case that the treaty will not be denounced if we have passed this law. No, then there is a parliamentary majority in the First and Second Chambers to denounce the treaty to which the Minister expresses. Once again, if, during the trial, Morocco still signs, we will not be against it, but if the law has been dealt with and it is 1 July 2016, then the treaty will be denounced as far as the VVD is concerned and, in my opinion, according to a majority of both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mrs Schut points out that it is always preferable to get out. I think that's a sensible line. Mrs Schut has also said a number of times that what has been there so far must be. Does it actually give the message that the Minister no longer has an inch of negotiating space for her? I wonder if I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u25	There has been a long negotiation and there is an agreement. I cannot anticipate this now, but in principle there is an agreement that Morocco has run away from. So I don't really see what space there should be. Whatever negotiations are taking place and whatever outcome they may have, they must not delay the process of withdrawal, as we also believe that this weakens our negotiating position. If we put everything on hold now because we think we're gonna get out of it, it's definitely not gonna work. So we're just gonna go ahead with the cancellation. If an agreement is reached in the meantime, fine, but that cannot delay the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u26	That wasn't my question either. My question was whether Mrs Schut said today that the Minister should not deviate inches from that agreement. Or does it leave it, as has happened so far, to the Minister to act in his own right? That is one of the questions that is important for the final opinion of my group. Are we going to put the Secretary of State in full custody today, or does the Minister still have room? These are both respectable positions, but I would like to hear clearly what the largest coalition party thinks about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u27	So far, I have never said exactly what should come out of the agreement, just that we want to delete or amend Article 5 of the Convention, which provides that the amount of benefits to be paid to Morocco must not be adjusted, deleted or adjusted. So far, the Minister has taken this into account in his negotiations. So I assume and trust that he will take this as a starting point, should he talk to Morocco in the meantime. That is the measure we are using. But once again, we do not want the process to be delayed, because we do not really expect an agreement to be reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Öztürk, this is your third interruption on the same person. I assume it's the last one and you'll keep it short. Yeah? Very nice. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u29	If you negotiate with a country, you have two partners. It can never be the case that only one country has negotiated. Minister Asscher negotiated on behalf of the Netherlands. It's his first period and he's not an international negotiator. What would the VVD think about strengthening Minister Asscher with Minister Koenders, who can understand that international dynamic, the changing society and the changing world and perhaps achieve the goal? What would the VVD say to Mr Koenders as Foreign Minister go along with Mr Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u30	The cabinet elects its own negotiators. I'm not part of that at all. I am not going to dwell on that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u31	Of course, that answer is too simple. If you really want to get out, as you just said, you also need to add a little water to the wine, or a little water to the Zamzam, in Moroccan. You've got to give me something. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Koenders, the Foreign Minister, to negotiate with us in order to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u32	We were very pleased with the agreement that was reached in September. So I would not like to give this minister a license of inability by saying that he did not do well and that someone else should be involved. That's not how I see it. We were very happy with what was lying there. We therefore hope that the Minister will do so. If that is not the case, then we will continue to give notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u33	Madam President. Given the time, I'm gonna leave out all the frills in my text. In view of Mrs Schut-Welken's text, with which I agree, I can also thank you for that. In any case, we believe that the so-called country of residence principle is particularly important in providing benefits abroad. A benefit must be as valuable in the Netherlands as it is in other countries. The campaign started in 2009 with the Van der Vlies motion. It's nice it worked out that way. Unfortunately, no solution has yet been found for Morocco. People can live more luxuriously in Morocco on a Dutch benefit than in the Netherlands, because it is equally high in Morocco. This cannot be the intention; that is self-evident. It is clear that this will require the withdrawal of the Convention, as Morocco is not prepared to amend it. We support the proposal that is before us. The EU's agreement with Morocco does not impose an obligation to export benefits. This requires an implementing decision first. I have two questions about this. We do not need that decision. It is not intended that the Netherlands should still be obliged to export by an EU decision. Does the government also consider that making such commitments is not part of the EU's tasks? Can the Minister promise that at least the Chamber will be involved in the substantive examination of the decision and that this will not be dealt with at official level? It says in the documents that it is possible that, through Coreper, it might happen very quickly, as some sort of hammer piece. I know that there are still possibilities, but I would like it not to be dismissed at official level and the Chamber to be involved in that decision. Finally, how does the draft decision relate to the principle of housing which many of us want? As I understand it, it doesn't say that. We would like that to happen, although our preference is that it should be regulated at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have a new President. In addition, I would like to congratulate you on the many hours you have already spent. In order to make it shorter, I will keep my speech more concise than I had planned. The debate on the land principle has been going on for a long time. However, when the Chamber voted broadly in 2011, from PvdA to PVV, it was already clear that the law could mean that some bilateral treaties would have to be amended. We deliberately chose to do so at that time, because it is important to maintain the support for our social security system with the principle of housing. Solidarity also plays a role in this. In the meantime, it has been possible to regulate the country of residence principle properly for other countries. Only Morocco has always delayed the negotiation process on the adaptation of the agreement we have with Morocco. I would stress that it was not the government's commitment to the fact that there is now no new treaty. I would like to thank the Minister for the efforts he has made so far on this issue. Morocco has not made it easy for us; perhaps today we are dealing with the ultimate consequence. As far as I'm concerned, this is a suboptimal outcome. We would have preferred to have brought about an amendment to the Convention, in which the country of residence principle had been the norm. I still hope that we can achieve that. I wonder if the Minister can give us any further insight into the current state of affairs. Is there even another conversation with Morocco or are we all done? Has he received any signals himself that Morocco is still prepared to honour the September agreement? If there is still a mouse hole and if Morocco is prepared to abandon the absurd demand for Western Sahara, my group would strongly prefer it to denounce the treaty. For the time being, I will have to assume that we are going to cancel the treaty, because it is now before us. At the same time, we see a different development at European level: the European Association Agreement with Morocco. It still provides a basis for the export of benefits, which makes it difficult, if not impossible, to apply the principle of the country of residence. Until the Association Treaty has been transposed into an Association Decision, this is not an immediate problem because citizens cannot directly invoke the provisions of the Convention. The texts of the decision are already ready and will soon be discussed at European level. I would like to know from the Minister what this means in concrete terms for this bill and possibly also for the amendment of the Treaty, should it come to that. Can the association decision or by any other means make it possible to apply the principle of the country of residence? I'd like to get a response. I would also like to comment on the consequences of the termination of the Convention. The Council of State and several implementing bodies have pointed out that this also has an impact on the control of fraud. These are serious implementation concerns, I say, because we still have quite a lot of benefits in Morocco. Does the Minister have any other means of controlling or monitoring this in any other way? Can this also be done, for example, by means of the Association Decision, which, as it now seems to be, recreates some of the powers of control? I'd like to get a response. Finally. The termination of this Convention is not an easy decision, as it affects the lives of people who will expect benefits in the future. It would not have been necessary, however, if Morocco had not burdened the September agreement just before Christmas with the sensitive international issue surrounding Western Sahara. I would actually call that obstruction. I don't often vote for a law that I hope won't make it to the Official Journal. Let me be clear again: I sincerely hope that we will be able to bring the Treaty into line. If, however, Morocco fails to do so and insists on its unreasonable demand for Western Sahara, then we see no alternative but to vote in favour of its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u35	It's late for everyone. That is why I would like to thank you very much, and also Mr Dijkgraaf, for briefly expressing the position of your groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. It is ironic that on the day when the House of Representatives elects a President with a Moroccan background at least, the next item on the agenda is the cancellation of a treaty with Morocco. That must seem very strange to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think the irony has escaped few, as I understood when I spoke to the journalists in the hallway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u38	I also felt that it should be appointed. At the time, my party voted against the introduction of the land principle into social security. We did not reject the country of residence principle in principle, but we felt that if you adjust the benefits downwards in another country, you should also adjust them upwards in a country with a higher standard of living such as Japan and Canada. The minister didn't want that at the time. That is why we voted against it. At the same time, we found it strange that when you insure employees' insurance an amount that comes to payment at the time that it happens to you, that depends on the country where you happen to live. That was a second reason why we rejected the principle of housing. As far as we are concerned, the working country should be the basis for social security benefits, with a treaty where you would end up in the world. At the AOW no one finds that a problem and we do not find it a problem here either. Anyway, that law has been passed. The cabinet then started working to revise treaties. A number of countries have succeeded. There was an agreement with Morocco, but there is no such agreement anymore. The SP understands very well that the Dutch government cannot accept Morocco's very last conditions. That is an international civil law issue. It has to do with occupation, liberation struggle, Polisario and that sort of thing. My group understands that perfectly. At the same time, the withdrawal of an existing treaty is very far-reaching, not only for those who live in Morocco with a Dutch benefit or who were planning to live in Morocco. It is incredibly important, because the Minister's letter shows that we still do not know what the withdrawal of the Treaty will mean for other relations we have with Morocco. There are many, but I would like to mention two. Firstly, I would like to mention the cooperation with the withdrawal of illegal aliens from that country. Morocco has stopped it for some time. What will happen if Morocco's reaction is that illegal refugees who have come from Morocco to the Netherlands do not take back? Secondly, cooperation in the fight against international terrorism. There is good cooperation on this issue now, but Morocco has said that it should look into this cooperation. Morocco regards the termination of the treaty as an unfriendly act, and I believe that such an act is quite a serious act in international diplomacy. The question to the Minister is therefore whether continuing the withdrawal of the Convention under current international conditions is more important than good cooperation with Morocco in the areas of readmission of illegal aliens, combating terrorism and a number of other issues. Or is the discussion of this bill currently part of an ongoing political game between the Dutch Government and the Moroccan Government? Do I understand that the Minister does not rule out the possibility that the original treaty will still be signed, even if the Lower House and the Upper House had passed this law? That is in so many words in the letter sent by the Minister, and that is a very different story from the one that the VVD put forward with me in the debate on the interruption. I am therefore curious whether the Minister, after this law has been passed in both chambers, will immediately send the formal termination to Morocco. Or does he use the House of Representatives as a pawn in the diplomatic chess game? Does he also refer to Parliament to put additional pressure on it to bring about the agreement that has already been reached? In other words, are we the pawn, the lady or even the king in this chess game?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u39	We are eagerly waiting for the answer that the Minister will give in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA has always been in favour of adapting the convention on social security with Morocco; the PvdA has never been in favour of its withdrawal. We therefore did not support the motion of the VVD and the SGP to terminate the agreement with Morocco. The PvdA wants the Social Security Convention with Morocco to be amended in accordance with the Homeland Law principle in social security. This means that the level of benefits is adjusted to the cost of living in the country of residence. The PvdA was therefore pleased that the Minister seemed to have succeeded in adapting the Treaty. After all, the Minister informed the Chamber by letter of 29 September 2015 and 23 November 2015 that an amendment to the Social Security Convention was already within reach. We are therefore displeased by Morocco's unacceptable additional demand to extend the export of Dutch benefits to Western Sahara. The PvdA cannot accept Morocco's additional unacceptable requirement to violate international law by agreeing on the export of benefits to Western Sahara. The Minister states in his letter of 15 December 2015 that he is still prepared to reach an agreement. We had hoped that we could have a debate on the amendment of the Treaty. However, because of Morocco's unacceptable demand, we are now holding the debate on the termination of that treaty. As a result, many Moroccan Dutch people, people with Dutch benefits in Morocco, are brought into uncertainty. Moreover, the termination jeopardises cooperation in other areas. This is undesirable; this is an undesirable situation. We attach importance to cooperation in various areas. Cooperation covers a wide range of areas, including organised crime, the fight against fraud and international cooperation in combating radicalisation and terrorism. Combat marriage and abandonment, return of illegally staying Moroccan nationals and police. We already know that when the bill of termination of the Convention was submitted, cooperation on forced return was put under considerable pressure. Moroccan foreigners without valid travel documents can no longer be detained. I'm not going to beat around the bush: this is creating a dilemma for us, and that just sucks. We are therefore very grumpy about the unacceptable and sudden demand of the Moroccan government. This happens, as has been said, also over the back of many people, who remain in uncertainty. Part of the room now seems to say it's ready. The cabinet also says that. I understand that very well. At the same time, my group continues to worry about the consequences of the withdrawal of the Treaty. Our preference was and will continue to be the adaptation of the Treaty and not its termination. The Minister writes in his letter of 15 December that the Netherlands is still prepared to reach an agreement. Has Morocco dealt with this outstretched hand of the Minister? Will the Minister remain prepared to reach an agreement on the treaty amendment in case next week the House of Representatives would agree to the termination of the treaty? For this there seems to be a majority in the House of Representatives, given the motion adopted to cancel the treaty. How does the Minister estimate that Morocco will opt for its money and drop the demand for the export of benefits to Western Sahara? Are there any movements on the Moroccan side now that the withdrawal of this treaty is being dealt with in the House of Representatives? How will the Minister inform those concerned if the Lower House would agree to the termination of the Treaty? What possibilities and consequences does the agreement have for the relationship between Morocco and the Netherlands? So many questions and that concludes my contribution to this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u41	But not after another question has been put to you by Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u42	Society also has many questions. Many people of Moroccan descent voted for the Labour Party. Minister Asscher, who was then alderman, would take away Rutte I's bullying measures and the PVV's tolerated partner story. One of the points was this treaty. That's what that PvdA would do. Now we see that the Minister of PvdA simply takes over the agenda of the VVD and takes over Rutte I's bullying measures one by one and all you have are questions, Mrs Yücel. I think it is a good thing that the citizen knows what you stand for, regardless of those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u43	I think I've been very clear. We are in favour of the principle of housing, we are in favour of the adaptation of the Treaty, we are not in favour of the withdrawal of the Treaty and we are in favour of good cooperation, including with Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u44	Short follow-up question, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u45	You're in the coalition, too. You have a partner, the VVD. You also have a position to move the VVD and and the Cabinet not to cancel the treaty. You have not used the right of veto, the position, the weight of the PvdA. You didn't use it for this. You just let the minister work for the VVD's cart. I have to keep it from the chairman that she does very nicely. Why are you letting the Minister do the dirty work of the VVD now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u46	I am generally not inclined to give qualifications about how we did it, but I do not think that we have even done so in this case with the VVD. The VVD says cancel and we say adjust. The VVD gives the Minister all the room and also has every confidence that the Minister will come to an agreement in the meantime. The Minister has also produced a great result, has concluded a nice agreement, and Morocco has come up with an unreasonable demand. That now leads to a dilemma in the Chamber. It's an unacceptable demand. I also call, from this position, on the Moroccan authorities to reach an agreement in particular. This is in the interests of those who are now in uncertainty, but also in the interests of cooperation which I believe is in the interests of both countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u47	The stenogram of this meeting is not being forwarded to the Moroccan Government, but it has also taken note of your call. I believe that is what brought you to the end of your speech. I see that's the case. Then we shall continue with Mr Öztürk's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr. Chairman. On the evening that we have written history, that someone of Moroccan origin has become President here, which is unique for the Netherlands, for Europe, I think for the world, Minister Asscher comes from the same party with a request to unilaterally cancel the social security treaty with Morocco. Mr Ulenbelt ended up with that. I'm afraid so. We're here almost 11:00 in the evening. What a rush. I don't understand that rush from the VVD either, but I don't understand it from the PvdA either. I thought we could treat this quietly. Then we will give the Minister the opportunity to have a quiet conversation with his Moroccan colleague. Perhaps he could take Minister Koenders with him to show this minister between the lines by a little bit of guidance in the international negotiation process. It is the Minister's first period; let us be honest. Anyway, that didn't happen. Well, then I'm gonna have to make my speech. It'll take 12, 13 minutes, unfortunately. But this is an important point for us and I want all the points made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u49	It's all very well for that. You just have your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u50	In 2005 our King was visiting Morocco. At the time, he was still a prince. He was there to celebrate the 400 years of relations between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Morocco was even the first North African country to establish relations with. The friendship and the bond between our countries go far back. The best example of this bond is from the blackest page of our history. In 1940, the German army raged through the Netherlands. Our country offered brave resistance, but we could not prevent our defeat. When the rest of the Netherlands was lost hopelessly, resistance was still offered in Zeeland by the Dutch, by the Zeeuws, by the French, but also by Moroccan soldiers on foot and on horseback. They helped in French service to defend our country. The PVV in Utrecht is angry when the Moroccan flag is shown during the commemoration of the dead, but the fact is that more than 70,000 Moroccans fought against the Germans in World War II. Those 70,000 people have done more for our country than the entire PVV group there in box X put together. There is, by the way, another example from a further past. I do this especially for the PVV in Utrecht. During the Eighty Years' War, Morocco and the Republic of the Netherlands agreed that their ships had free access to each other's ports. So Dutch ships could hide here in their fight against the Spaniards. The link between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Kingdom of the Netherlands was confirmed in Rabat on 14 February 1972. Then our countries signed a treaty. In this treaty, we agreed that we should coordinate social security systems, that we should exercise control over the granting of social security and that we should treat each other equally. In 1972, more beautiful things were done, because my year of construction is 1972 too, but I assume that there are differences of opinion here in the Chamber. That's democracy, too. Meanwhile, our King's visit to Morocco is ten years ago. Much has happened in the meantime, because in 2010 the most right-wing cabinet in the history of our country came to power. This cabinet had a cold-liberal foreman, a conservative right That cabinet has really taken the most terrible measures Only if you take a benefit to countries like Morocco, Suriname or Turkey your benefit will be reduced. What an inequality, what a pestilence measure! Because of this principle of housing, people who have paid the premiums themselves receive less money. Some people with a Dutch passport are treated differently than others with a Dutch passport. People are discriminated against on the basis of their place of residence. This is just a bullying measure by Rutte II, who takes over PvdA Minister Asscher one-on-one. We therefore believe that this treaty should be amended. On top of this country-of-country principle, two more pestilence measures were introduced during this cabinet period. Rutte II is actually a kind of upgrade of Rutte I. This cabinet also wants to take away children's family allowances abroad and stop the reimbursement of care costs in the event of a temporary stay outside the EU. The PvdA has once again been convinced by the VVD to implement right-wing policy. In that context, little has changed since Rutte I. The VVD now only has a leftist party with an identity crisis as a partner instead of a right-conservative partner and an extreme right-wing doger. The PvdA lends itself time and time again to execute the right-wing agenda of the VVD. Unfortunately, Minister: the VVD wants a sober reception for refugees; the PvdA delivers. The VVD wants a consideration for a welfare allowance; the PvdA provides. The VVD wants a austerity of the WW; the PvdA delivers. However, also these bullying measures, the taking of child benefit and the healthcare allowance, are contrary to the Treaty. It had therefore to be adapted for further reasons. As a result, a long, expensive and dragging process began in 2011. In 2011, our ambassador contacted the Moroccan authorities about the request to negotiate the Convention. Later, senior officials and our ambassador contacted the Moroccan minister and then delegations from different ministries travelled to Morocco; all for nothing. All expensive tickets, cars with drivers, hotel rooms and dinners wasted. Morocco indicated that it did not want to negotiate. Then muscle talk, the minister and the cabinet thought. Then we'll prepare a bill to stop the treaty. After a lot of efforts negotiations were started, but again all for nothing: expensive tickets, drivers, hotel rooms, and dinners that have been wasted. For now, four years later, after Minister Asscher was so proud of his agreement in September, we are discussing a bill to put an end to the agreement with Morocco. Besides the Dutch people, the Moroccan government does not trust him. His deal didn't come. That people of PvdA-huis cannot negotiate can be seen in the right-wing coalition agreement. But this is really hitting everything. This minister brings his children to school every morning in Amsterdam, then drives his driver to the airport, then to fly an expensive government plane to Morocco, to try as a reverse Robin Hood to take away the child's child allowance and the disability allowance, to try to reduce the benefit of widows and widowers as a reverse Robin Hood, with a bullying measure of Rutte I to lure the xenophobic voter back to the VVD. Luckily, he didn't. Where does this minister think he himself dropped into the negotiation process? Was he the right man in the right place? Has he not wasted Dutch community money with his four-year discussion in Morocco and here? Were those four years of diplomatic stinging worth it? I would like a specific answer from the Minister to these questions. What can we ultimately win with this story, assuming that the association decision will come? Can we ultimately add EUR 17,5 million a year to our account? That's a little more than a hamburger per capita. But what are the Minister and the VVD putting at risk for this hamburger? The Netherlands exports to Morocco for almost 700 million euros and imports from Morocco for almost 350 million euros. How does the Minister feel that the diplomatic events concerning the Convention will affect these relations? Does he not risk economic relations and interests for a hamburger per capita? This hamburger per head of the population is, after all, up against about €60 per head of the population in trade relations. Doesn't this minister gamble with Dutch jobs? Then we are not just talking about a gamble of current jobs, because Morocco is a growth market, also for our country. It is a country with great potential and it is the gateway to North Africa. Hundreds of thousands of people go on holiday there and there are a lot of friendly agreements. Is the Minister really prepared to put this potential at risk for Dutch entrepreneurs? In addition to economic relations, we also risk our cooperation in the fields of culture, security and foreigners. The deterioration in relations in recent times has shown that we are putting something at risk. The Tropenmuseum in Amsterdam missed 1 million funding. Cooperation on forced return is under strong pressure and Morocco called our actions 'an unfriendly act'. So stop this madness. The Netherlands is a trading country, a country of diplomacy and a social country. It is not appropriate to unilaterally terminate treaties, to risk Dutch jobs for right-wing measures and to take away children's child benefit. We therefore call on the Minister to hand over the leadership of the negotiations on this dossier to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This minister didn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u51	I can't help it. Mr Öztürk has said on several occasions that Morocco's exports and imports will cease as soon as this treaty is terminated. What does he base that conclusion on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u52	Morocco says this is an unfriendly act. In diplomacy, unilateral withdrawal of treaties always has consequences. It is no longer the case that the colonial rich Dutchman rules all over the world. The market and the world are changing. People have multiple choices. Entrepreneurs have multiple choices. They can go to Belgium, France or Germany and they can make more use of other things. I talk to entrepreneurs sometimes. I have also been to Morocco with delegations. You just see there's anger from this arrogant colonial behavior of a number of parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u53	Since when does Morocco have a state-led economy? After all, you are talking about the markets that are changing and adapting. Then it is really up to Dutch and Moroccan entrepreneurs to have the freedom to export to where they want to do so. I don't think that's what the Moroccan government is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Dutch government also buys a lot of things. It also has trade delegations to other countries and preferences for other countries. The Moroccan entrepreneurs also do not think it is possible to unilaterally denounce a treaty. That means you're showing a little unreliable behavior. In trade, it is important that your trading partner is reliable and that he does not unilaterally denounce a treaty. This has consequences for years. The VVD doesn't realize that. You now want to win some votes that you have lost from the PVV supporters, the right-wing xenophobic supporters, but this is going to cost the Netherlands a lot of money. That's what I'm saying. Minister Koenders does have the diplomatic qualities, including on this dossier. He does have the international experience to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion and he has the support of Dutch best diplomats. He must go back to Morocco and try to correct what this minister has messed up there and get the best result back to the Netherlands. If he does not do this for himself, let him do it for the Dutch entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u55	It is clear where Mr Öztürk stands, but when I hear him talking like this, I get the impression that he missed a letter, namely the letter in which the Minister stated that he had reached an agreement, but that he had to tell the Chamber that suddenly the issue of Western Sahara came between us; Mrs Schouten called it 'an obstruction'. There was an agreement with the Moroccan government, but it came back with a demand that Mr Öztürk and I know that the Netherlands can never agree to it. The Moroccan Government knew that very well. I assume that Mr Öztürk will now come to this point and deal with this part of history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u56	Of course, the Western Sahara has been discussed in the papers. I read it. Mr Van Weyenberg, too, I presume. This minister, with his negotiating qualities, does not understand the international context. He should have included the Western Sahara in the negotiations and he did not. Between the sentences, he said he'd talked about it once. But he should have included that in the negotiating document. If he had the diplomatic experience, he could have had that in the treaty. He didn't take that. I blame him for that. That is why we now have this discussion at 10:11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u57	Once again, there is one missing point: there was an agreement. There was an agreement between the Dutch government and the Moroccan government. It is hard for me to believe that Morocco is obstructing itself unilaterally. I'd almost call it an unfriendly act. An agreement that lies there is charged with something that is known that the Netherlands can never agree to it. Mr Öztürk always runs away from the fact that there was just an agreement between two governments. I further respect his point of view, but I do think that Mr Öztürk should take this point of historiography with him. Just saying that it is a mistake of the Dutch negotiators if another party withdraws its signature from a concluded agreement, I find a rather wonderful starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u58	The Netherlands has entered into negotiations with a certain arrogance. The right-wing parties sent this left-wing minister on an expensive government plane to Morocco to take the child benefit. You don't negotiate equally. You can see that a country has a problem with that and that comes out at some point. In the negotiations you must be able to discuss everything, including the sensitivities and the emotions. Don't think: I've brought in a piece, I'm coming to the Netherlands, I'm getting some applause, I've got the VVD behind me a bit, the VVD is satisfied again, I'm allowed another year. That attitude doesn't add up. In the negotiations, he should have just said: the Western Sahara is a discussion point, and I am going to sign it with you as well. He didn't. That is a deficit in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u59	I ask Mr Öztürk how he looks at the unity of government policy. If this Minister negotiates on behalf of the Dutch Government, then it is no different than if Minister Koenders would do it, I may assume. Or would Mr Öztürk suggest that Minister Koenders is against what Mr Öztürk is proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u60	This is an international negotiation. You have the cabinet. It negotiates with a country about a social security convention. That has to do with content. But you're also negotiating with another continent. So you have to think: do we send the right person to the country that needs to be negotiated? I say, in view of the negotiations that Minister Asscher has done before and given that he has no international experience, that the cabinet should have sent Minister Koenders along. We can do that now. It was also proven when Minister Asscher was working on Turkey: when Mr Koenders took office, relations got better again. So Mr Koenders has that international experience and I am sure he can bring in a lot of things for the Netherlands. He's proven that in other countries. That is why I say, very sincerely also in the face of Minister Asscher: let it go, leave it to another minister, so that we do not have to have this kind of discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u61	I learned from the debate on the new President that you can also say: this is complete nonsense. I would like this qualification to be included in the report, because I know that you will not intervene. You can find out what you want from this minister, but I've negotiated a lot of things with him and can guarantee one thing: he's good at negotiating. So I find it very special that Mr Öztürk, from his experience, who, in my opinion, has to do with all other content, gives this kind of qualifications to this minister. That is not the point. The central point, in my opinion, is: will this government ignore international statements on the areas occupied? This minister wouldn't want that. Neither does Minister Koenders. Only Mr Öztürk wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u62	I leave the term "nonsense" to the SGP spokesperson. I won't respond to that, because it's late at night. Let's not argue about that here. He doesn't go into my argument. I say that this minister has no international negotiating skills. I am not saying that he has not properly negotiated with the Chamber in this Chamber. I'm saying he doesn't have those qualities. He has, by his statements and attitude, summoned a certain aversion to the Moroccan government. That comes back at some point. That's what I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Dijkgraaf, you want to respond again, but we will first go to Mr Ulenbelt. If you still want to make your point after that, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u64	I am now very curious about Mr Öztürk's position with regard to Western Sahara. Does he seriously believe that the Dutch Government should give in to Morocco's demand to pay out these benefits in Western Sahara? There's a U.N. mission there. A referendum would still be held there. The United Nations has said that Morocco must not have control over Western Sahara. Does Mr Öztürk now make this appeal to the government: sign the agreement and have... shit... I have to find a proper word...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u65	"Recognize with that" you might want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u66	Uh, there's a call for "lake." So sign the agreement and disregard international international law on Western Sahara? Should the Netherlands give in to Morocco in this respect? Is that Mr Öztürk's position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u67	I didn't say that. I said that the discussion on Western Sahara should have a role in the negotiating documents. The Minister failed to do so. That's what I'm talking about. I'm gonna say one more thing. You can mention the international conventions, but they concern children and widows. If children and widows don't get money, I can see what happens to them in front of me. So a solution must be sought for the children and the widows there. You say I'm working on international affairs, and I'm dropping those kids and those widows. The SP says, "I don't care about that." I'm having trouble with that. I say, Minister, find a solution to help the children and widows there. That's what the discussion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u68	Nor has Mr Öztürk listened to my party's position. We were against the land principle. We are opposed to abandoning all these international conventions. I'm not gonna drop kids. You have to take that back! That's what I'm asking of you. Furthermore, I really want to answer my question: what is the position of your group with regard to the occupation of Western Sahara? Should the Netherlands give in to Morocco's demand, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u69	I didn't say we should give in to that. I said that the Minister should have included that point in the negotiating documents and should have worked together to find a solution for the children and widows. How you do that, I'll leave you to the cabinet, but you shouldn't let those kids go. That is our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u70	I am always sorry that Mr Öztürk's apparent frustrations are very much in the way of taking a good look at the facts and getting a good look at the dossier in order to provide a certain level of input. I would have liked to have said this for a moment, because here nonsense is being said on all sides. On behalf of the cabinet, the Minister has reached a very nice agreement, with the opposition and the coalition, in view of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u71	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u72	It was a really nice chord, with a soft landing and a good bridging period. It is the Moroccan government which, suddenly, has come up with a very unreasonable demand. It's about people's backs. By doing so, because of this unacceptable, suddenly added demand, these people have fallen into uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u73	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u74	My question is therefore: what exactly are you asking the cabinet at the moment? Should the cabinet be talking about occupied territories in a social security treaty? Does it have to negotiate on that? How do you stand in international law? Do you want us to respect that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr President, I will not question Mrs Keklik's level tonight, because you asked me very nicely. I think a lot of people in the country do. The fact that you're talking about "nonsense" and that you're talking about people here is beneath me. If you'd listened carefully to me... from your group, you've been ordered to take down the Moroccan government, the Moroccans. Click is pushed forward with the assignment: make sure that these Moroccans are dealt with hard, so that we can reassure the VVD, so that we can regain the right-wing votes for the PvdA, so that we can win back the old voters with the "Martijn van Dam en Dijsselbloem" line, the hard right-wing line. And you're buying it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Öztürk, if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u77	And you're doing the dirty work for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr Öztürk, may I ask you, in a debate like this, to speak through the President so that we do not turn this debate into a you-bowl with personal accusations? This is about content. There are certainly firm feelings about this subject, but I would ask you and colleagues in the Chamber to stick to the substance. And try to speak through the chairman. That helps to have a good debate. I think you have both come a long way with the comments you wanted to make on this point. I'll allow a brief follow-up question, if it's really a question. Then there will also be a brief answer. I'm assuming you're both sticking to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u79	A brief follow-up question indeed. We still do not have an answer on Mr Öztürk's position with regard to occupied territory. What does Mr Öztürk expect the cabinet to negotiate the occupied territory? What does Mr Öztürk expect the cabinet to be involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u80	I can give you a straight answer to such a neat question. I expect the cabinet, along with Minister Koenders, to find a solution for the children in those areas. That does not mean that this is the recognition that most of my colleagues are referring to here. But I do want the Cabinet to find a clever solution for the children and the widows. How that happens, I leave it to the cabinet. I am concerned about the children, who should not be the victims of international strife by political parties and anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u81	I would like to look at Mr Dijkgraaf, who I said to him earlier... fine, he is abandoning his interruption. Thank you very much. Mr Öztürk, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u82	I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u83	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u84	Almost 400,000 Dutch live in the Netherlands with a Moroccan background. These people, like us, contribute to our society. Some do so as an official, as a teacher, as a cop or as President of the Chamber. And some bridge the gap between the Dutch economy and the Moroccan economy. By investing smartly and investing in Morocco, we can regain many of the resources that the VVD wants to save. For us, it is important that the Moroccan Dutch are also asked what they think of the withdrawal of the treaty. For changing three lampposts in a street, we organize three information evenings. There is no demand for people's opinion on this treaty, whereas 400,000 people of Moroccan origin live here. Finally. Choose Dutch diplomacy, solidarity and trade spirit. The children do not take their child benefit, do not take away their allowance or take away their chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u85	I sat in my seat for a long time and listened to Mr Öztürk. I leave all the qualifications he has given, including to the Minister, on his behalf. I found it below par, but okay. That was said here. I do have one observation. After all Mr Öztürk's speech, I note that he agrees with the application of a country-of-home principle. Does Mr Öztürk recognise that? He would have agreed to the agreement, if only something had been arranged for the Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u86	No, I didn't say that. I have consistently said in my plea that it is a bullying measure, because we do not apply the principle of housing to the people of Poland and Spain. This is a bullying measure to bully 400,000 people and all the other people who live in Morocco. It is a conservative right-wing measure to hurt a lot of people and to win back the right-wing voter. I have said that we are not participating in this. I am sorry that you mention the term 'no level'. I think you are very high and I would also like to be patient not to give you a qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you very much for that. Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr Öztürk is always free to do a qualification for me, but I thought I should say this. Turkey has applied a country-of-country principle. Does Mr Öztürk now want to reverse that principle of the country of residence or something like that? How fair does he think it is that other countries should come up with a treaty that regulates all this properly and that one country should obstruct until the last time and even reject a good agreement at the end? How can he justify this to, for example, the Turkish government, which has helped to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u89	Why don't you tell me about the Polish government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u90	No, we're not gonna ask any questions back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u91	May I respond to that? Because that country falls within the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u92	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr Öztürk knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mrs Schouten, we are not going to ask questions back. Mr Öztürk now has the opportunity to answer your question. We are not going to open a whole new discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u95	The fundamental discussion is that the countries themselves decide this. What Turkey decides is up to Turkey. I think it is important that we adapt our arrogant European and Dutch negotiating methods to the changing world and economies. Look where Morocco will be in ten years' time and what kind of discussion we are having here. The Moroccan Parliament and the Moroccan people are watching this. They look at the level and the way you treat me. In ten years' time, if the economy is different there and we have to send our trade delegations there, we will get these kinds of talks back. I'm like: look not at short-term profits, but at the future of Morocco. There are opportunities. Don't shatter it for 17.5 million euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you very much. All the speakers in this debate are, of course, opposed to each other as representatives of their group and not as individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u97	I've listened to you, and I've saved two minutes and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u98	Thank you very much on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Mr Pieter Heerma, who unfortunately went home sick after the President's votes. I'll make it clear to the Minister right away. The CDA intends to support this bill. It has been long enough and too long on some points, but at the same time it is sad that the negotiations with Morocco have just collapsed at the last minute. In his letters of 29 September and 23 November, the Minister indicated that there would be an agreement. I read the Minister's letter of 11 January. He answers a number of questions. However, what is not clear in that letter is what actually happened. How could it happen that Morocco came up with these really extreme demands from Western Sahara at the last minute? Were there any indications on the negotiating team that Morocco was simply planning to fail to do so? The question that arises is whether the Minister is still prepared to reach an agreement. How real is this wish, in fact, at a time when Morocco is making these enormous demands? I heard the SP and the PvdA asking a number of legitimate questions about the consequences of the termination of the treaty. The CDA also likes to hear the Minister's expectations on this point. A lot has already been said and asked, so I'm just going to be extremely brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Dijkgraaf, I will get rid of my text, given the time and the fact that we will support the bill. It's a short bill, but it's obvious. Although, there are a few unclear sides to it as well. Just a little bit of history. I would like to summarize the first paragraph that we had prepared, as follows: Morocco fucked us nicely in 1969 with the Recruitment Convention and in 1972 with the Social Security Convention. Those were more dictations from Rabat than they really worked together. The VVD and the predecessors of the CDA were responsible for these conventions. You see how it goes. We always said that mass immigration and its consequences were the fault of the left. Perhaps we should refer to these parties as the left. Over the past decades, regular attempts have been made to adapt the treaty. In the construction of the previous cabinet, in which the PVV tolerated, we gave some extra gas. Now we're here to give it a slap. What we find difficult is that Morocco is once again able to sew us into the trap in the negotiations, as has already been mentioned by a number of previous speakers, through the Western Sahara. Of course, that's not neat. This has already been mentioned in a bit more calmer terms, but we simply call it "blackmail." This will give us a noose of about 100 million in the future, which we can add to the mass immigration bill. We have some questions about the EU, which Mr Ulenbelt has also mentioned. We called Brussels again. This year, in 2016, it should be done with the EU Association Agreement. This would give Morocco, with the exception of family allowances, almost the same rights as the current social security agreement with the Netherlands on the import of benefits. In our view, this whole thing once again shows how the interests of our citizens are being squandered by the elite in The Hague and Brussels, as national legislation is actually being put out of play. Does the Minister see that in the same way as we see it? We believe that the association agreement with Morocco, which has yet to enter into force, should once again be a warning to the people to vote against the association agreement with Ukraine in particular on 6 April. Because junckerian agreements are being made there too. We know what Juncker thinks. He always says: we decide something, then we announce it, we wait a while to see what happens, no one understands about it, and then we move on until there is no step back. Soon that will happen to Ukraine and now to Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr De Graaf, it is a good practice in this house that we do not give too many qualifications to people who cannot defend themselves. I'd like to ask you the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u102	Oh, yeah, Juncker... Okay, then apologize to Mr Juncker for that, but I don't suppose he'll take this into account. Despite the disastrous decision of association between the EU and Morocco, which will make the Dutch treaty superfluous, we will be voting for termination. I have already confirmed this with a look at the Minister and also with words. The Minister has announced his willingness to conclude an agreement with Morocco. How are we supposed to interpret that? If the bill is adopted, will the government be able to negotiate with Morocco on the conditions under which this happens, such as application of the country-of-origin principle in time? As far as we're concerned, it's been more than enough. We therefore call on the government to permanently suspend all further negotiations with the aim of putting an end to the Social Security Convention. Just show some balls and say, "We're done." As far as the consequences of the termination of the Convention are concerned, the government should fully focus on the original Dutch conditions, not on any compromise already reached with Morocco. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group is the last speaker of the Chamber. I understand that the Minister would then like to have a short suspension for the preparation of the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. I will also try to shorten my text considerably, in view of the time and the many things that have already been said. The Chamber is in a rather special position tonight, it is evening and not yet a morning. We are actually a bit of a pawn in an international negotiation game between the cabinet and Morocco. This puts us in a somewhat complicated position occasionally, as I see on behalf of my group. My group supported the Minister's efforts to reach an agreement with the Moroccan Government on the amendment of the Treaty. We also had a number of arguments for this. First of all, we believe that if you conclude a treaty together, you must do everything you can to adapt it together. That's how you do it in international diplomacy. Secondly, we are genuinely concerned about the impact of unilateral withdrawal on maintaining the benefits that still need to be strengthened. Let it be clear: we will continue to provide many ongoing benefits for many years to come. We can then check them less for legality. The Moroccan Government is also not expected to participate in, for example, the control of assets that is now taking place. This amounts to a total of EUR 1.2 million. We think this is a good way to take account of the situation. Finally, we are very concerned about the damage in other areas. We had that concern when the motion was put to the vote, which led to the tabling of this bill. It has also turned out, because cooperation in the expulsion of foreign nationals, for example, has simply stopped the Moroccan Government. You will understand that in these extremely hot international times, this kind of reduced cooperation is also an issue of concern to us as regards the fight against terrorism. We were therefore very pleased when the Minister informed us that an agreement had been reached, because that would have brought the Dutch cabinet's wish within reach without the disadvantages we saw in the field of international law, cooperation in other areas and the legality and fight against fraud in current payments. But unfortunately we were told in mid-December that despite an agreement there were new demands from the Moroccan Government. This was particularly the case with Western Sahara. Mrs. Schouten called that obstruction. As far as I am concerned, that is a relatively neutral word. Everyone knew that the Netherlands would never agree to this. Of course, the Moroccan Government knew that very well. According to the Minister, is this a negotiating move, a way to see if there is still a little bit more in the barrel in the next few weeks? Or is it simply a matter of principle and is the Minister's assessment that the Moroccan Government does not want to agree on any treaty amendment with the Netherlands at all? I'd like a response. It also raises a number of questions in my group about the hardness of the agreement which the Minister has been pleased to announce. Was it a political agreement? Are there any signatures underneath and, if so, whose? What if we asked the Moroccan Government if it had an agreement with the Dutch Government? Would she answer that question with a yes? How does the Minister assess the position of the Moroccan Government? The Minister is still saying that he would very much like to reach an agreement after all. Are we negotiating at the moment? If not, does the Minister expect to be able to resume negotiations in the short term? If so, does he expect to be able to conclude the negotiations in the short term? I think that's relevant. For my group, this is all going to be part of our final judgment. I think it's a dilemma. Mrs. Schouten said it, too. I was very happy with the deal. One-sided termination was absolutely not the desired route. But yes, if there is then a negotiation, as the D66 Group would like, if there is an agreement on which a country comes back with an obstruction, with a demand that everyone knows the Netherlands can never agree to, I believe that only Mr Öztürk would like to see it, then that raises questions. The judgment will be given by my group at the end of the journey on the basis of the Minister's response. My group attaches great importance to the fact that, if a majority of the House were to decide unilaterally to vote in favour of withdrawal, the Minister would continue to do everything possible to try to reach an agreement. I am very aware that the fact that the agreement is not here is not due to the Minister, who had reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u105	I don't really know where D66 is right now. It's a dilemma. D66 was actually against termination and for reaching an agreement. The agreement has actually been withdrawn by running away from Morocco. Where's D66 now? What's the stakes right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u106	I think it is a good use to use the debate for that. I have asked the Minister a number of questions as to how he thinks that a negotiation process can take place in the near future. My group still wants an agreement to be reached. As far as I am concerned, all the efforts are still there. But at the same time, the Minister's answers are important to my group for the final vote. I, too, see a step in the negotiation process that did not make me very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u107	Where's the border for D66? We have already discussed this in the previous debate on the interruption. The Netherlands itself did not set any limits, but that limit has now been drawn by extending its scope to Western Sahara. If you say that you want to negotiate on this and not further, that can be decisive for reaching an agreement. If you keep saying that you want to negotiate, it can lead to no agreement, as it has been for the past six years. Is that a desirable outcome for D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u108	The agreement was already there. At least that's what it looked like. That is why I also asked the Minister whether he was concerned about a step in the negotiation process or whether the door was finally closed. The answer to that is very important for my group. I am deeply concerned that issues such as cooperation against terrorism and the expulsion of illegal aliens, to which the VVD attaches great importance, are being put into a tribulation. We are going to weigh these things after a debate. That's what I think of the royal order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u109	You say you don't want the D66 fraction used as a pawn. You asked the Minister about that, too. Are you saying that the Minister has not done his negotiating job properly, because Morocco has come to the end with this story in order to undermine the outcome of the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u110	No, I asked other questions, for example, whether there was an agreement in the Moroccan government's opinion, whether there was an agreement in black and white and whether the Minister was perhaps a little too optimistic when he sent us that letter. I don't know. I assume that the agreement was hard, but ask the Minister again, just to be sure. I note that there was an agreement and I assume that the Minister will confirm that if it is otherwise, I would like to hear that and that the Moroccan Government then came up with a demand that was destructive for the negotiation process. If so, I find that a dilemma, because I do not want to reward that behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u111	You say you have some doubts. You have a number of questions and want to know why this could happen. Then we'll have to change something if you think we have to renegotiate? If we send the same person or delegation, nothing changes. Do you agree with us that we need to change something about the negotiating delegation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u112	I have every confidence in this minister for these negotiations. Whether Minister Koenders or Minister Asscher negotiates, I don't think that's going to make a difference. I believe that Minister Koenders has exactly the same view of Western Sahara as Minister Asscher. That is not the issue here. I would particularly like to know where that blockade came from, as far as the Minister can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Court's first term. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. I was very happy when I was able to inform the Chamber in September that there was a deal with Morocco. I believe that there is hardly any difference of opinion on the fact that we are all better off with an amended treaty. This is better for the Moroccans who are now receiving benefits, but it is also better for the future to translate a wish expressed by Parliament to apply the principle of housing and restrict exports into an international treaty. It was a real deal, I say right away. The Minister and I have congratulated each other and there are signatures from both governments. I do not know what a deal can be, however, than this deal was, but I regret to have to inform the Chamber shortly before Christmas that an additional demand has been made, which the Dutch Government could not enter into. That's why we're here. It has already been recalled: I still prefer to amend the Convention. That seems to me to be in the interests of both countries. However, I cannot respond to this additional demand and there is no difference of opinion within the government. I understand very well that several Members of Parliament will say that this is a dilemma, but that is what brings us here. What does it mean that I repeat that the door is open and there are conversations going on? We have made it clear that we cannot respond to this demand, but that the Netherlands still prefers an amended treaty, as we agreed in September. However, if we come up with something else and want to see a comma different within the framework of the negotiations, we will not close the door. That would also be strange, because we are committed to amending the Treaty. However, we are not suddenly going to let go of the commitment that landed in that deal. We agree with Mrs Schut's summary. Parliament gave me the opportunity to negotiate longer than people might have liked in the summer. I was able to use them to make a good deal in the interests of both countries. It's a shame it didn't work out, but that appointment does mean something. That is the framework within which it must be done. What happens now? There are official contacts. I have spoken out about how we are in it. I do not dare to make an assessment of whether an agreement will be reached. I would welcome it, because it seems to me to be in the interests of all. I'm not gonna work out all kinds of scenarios, because that's not gonna increase the odds. I'm afraid to put a percentage on it either. I think it is true in terms of timing that until I inform the Moroccan Government of the withdrawal of the Treaty on European Union, which must be signed by 1 July of this year, agreement can be reached. The clock is ticking however. In that sense, I understand and appreciate the fact that the Chamber wanted to continue the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you for the clarity on the status of the agreement. When I hear this, there can be no misunderstanding. It is good to make that explicit here. What did the Minister do when this information reached him? Did he immediately call his Moroccan counterpart and ask for any explanation? I am still struggling with the reason for this fact. I understand the Minister and I don't have a glass ball. Has the Minister gained any more insight into the origin of this demand and how we should weigh it? It's a tricky question, but it's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u116	I understand the question very well. It also came for me as a thunderbolt in the clear sky. After that, of course, all kinds of contacts have been made, both by myself and by the officials. I am not going to give an assessment of the Moroccan Government's considerations to put this demand on the table. I'm not gonna judge or qualify for this either. We could not accept that demand and it was therefore not possible to convert the political deal into a legal treaty text. Again, it is extremely unfortunate. In my opinion, it is not good for the Moroccan Dutch who are in uncertainty about this. We had made an excellent agreement which took into account existing cases, but at the same time took due account, for the future, of the decision of both chambers to amend the legislation. That's true now. It would not help if I were to guess the reasons for this for the Moroccan Government. There is no greater chance that it will succeed. It's too bad. That's my brief summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u117	I understand the Minister doesn't want to speculate. That's not wise. For example, has the Minister had a study carried out on the negotiations of, for example, fellow Member States in the European Union with Morocco to what extent this has been used more often as a wedge to bring in something else or as a way of ensuring that there is no treaty in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u118	I don't know any precedent, I don't know any other casuism that resembles that. The Western Sahara is, of course, an important issue in Morocco, but it is no surprise how the United Nations, the European Union, the Dutch Government and other governments in the European Union deal with it. It's not a new situation. It is not a changed policy that we would not export; it is an existing policy. In this sense, I can also find no deeper explanation for what has happened now by looking at the neighbouring countries. We have to deal with that. It's true, it's unfortunate. If in the coming period, which is not unlimited, there are compelling reasons for the Moroccan Government to make that agreement with the Netherlands, then I think it is possible because there is such a long and good relationship between the countries. However, if you make an agreement that leads to amendment of the Treaty but which cannot be translated into legal texts at the latest, then it is reasonable to say that that treaty has become obsolete in itself. Then it is time to say: unfortunately. Perhaps there will be other or new agreements in the future, but if, after a political agreement on the amendments, this treaty does not succeed, it seems to have had its best time. Too bad, but unfortunately! Mrs Schut-Welken asked how I got to the date of publication. If both Chambers decide to terminate, the procedure of the Referendum Act should be followed before formal notice can be given. In order for this termination of the Convention to be effective by 1 January, we must give Morocco a formal notification of its withdrawal before 1 July. Time should be reserved for the various steps in the referendum process. Assuming that the normal deadlines of the Referendum Act are followed and that the Election Board is expeditious in all the deadlines laid down in the Referendum Act, a number of assumptions are relevant. The first is that, after publication in the Official Journal for the introductory application, 10,000 valid signatures will be received. Then the entry into force of the law of termination shall automatically lapse. A second round will then take place, with 300,000 signatures to allow the final request. Assuming that that threshold is not met, it may then be decided until the date of the termination act. The termination may then take place on 1 July. If the referendum were to reach the threshold, the government would have to reconsider this legislation. I cannot anticipate that now. It is a bit procedural, but it does mean that we must hurry now. That is why I appreciate the fact that after this very long Chamber day the Chamber wanted to continue its proceedings. I can follow Mrs Schut-Welk's reasoning, which leads to urgency, but I think that this is a disadvantage compared to the referendum procedure, when it is not necessary if we are to start treatment at a pace. That's why I'm aiming for this timeline. The Social Affairs attaché in Rabat will provide information in Morocco if it comes to termination. What is the situation with regard to the EU Association Decision? The EU and Morocco have conducted and concluded negotiations on this subject following an earlier mandate. We are now waiting for proposals on this from the European Commission to the Council. There are expectations that this could happen this year. It is not certain, but that is one of the obvious expectations. It should then be signed by the EU-Morocco Association Council. The Netherlands has no influence on that planning. If the Association Decision is in line with the mandate previously given by the Dutch Government, there are no more possibilities to challenge, adapt or oppose it. On balance, the result would be that there would be no change in family allowances, but that the obligation to pay benefits would relive for some of the other benefits affected by the Social Security Convention. As soon as the committee submits such a proposal, I will inform the Chamber, I will tell Mr Dijkgraaf. The Chamber can then, of course, be involved in the usual way and debate it with the Cabinet. The Association Decision derives from the Association Treaty which the Union has previously concluded with Morocco. The EU's competence is to coordinate social security. In the light of this competence, we must see this Association Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u119	I just have a clarifying question. The Minister says that we no longer have any influence on the Association Decision that the EU takes with Morocco, but if that decision is there, will we still have a BNC sheet to the Chamber, which we can make a reservation about? Or does the Minister say that the scope of that reservation will be limited? How's he gonna figure that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u120	There is indeed a BNC sheet coming to the Chamber. We can indeed have a debate on this. However, if the EU has negotiated within the terms of reference given by the Dutch Government, it is not reasonable for the Netherlands to reject or try to stop the negotiations. That is the thrust of my speech. I've outlined history. Mr De Graaf also asked for this. Negotiations with the Kingdom of Morocco have also continued under Rutte I. That led to a result. That could be presented this year. If that is the case, I will inform Parliament immediately. This will have consequences, including for the benefit relationship between the Netherlands and Morocco. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u121	Let's talk about this trial. We've seen several letters. I believe that the negotiations started in 2011, perhaps even in 2009. Each year it is reported that it might start that year. What caused this to be delayed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u122	I can't say. That's really out of my jurisdiction. This is a matter between the European Union's Commission and Morocco. I've informed the Chamber to my best knowledge. I just shared that information with the Chamber. We ourselves have some experience that sometimes a deal doesn't happen. However, let me not speculate about what this is about with the Association Decision. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u123	It is a good undertaking from the Minister that he will inform the Chamber and that this can be debated. Maybe it's good to be very sharp about what this means. Suppose the Court concludes that the result achieved does not fit within the mandate, for whatever reason, does this mean that the decision will continue in any case? Or does it mean that there can still be an adjustment or, worst of all, that the decision will not be taken at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u124	You should always be careful with "if so" scenarios, but let me take this path with Mr Dijkgraaf. Theoretically, that's possible. In that case, the Netherlands could say that it does not think this is a sensible idea. Then we are not here, because the Association Decision can be adopted by qualified majority. We should then convince enough Member States of our position. That could mean something. That has not yet led to the race, but we all feel that it could be complicated. This is all the more true when people are properly experienced within the mandate. That is about the situation with regard to the Association Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u125	That is a fine answer, which prevents me from having a second term and a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u126	I heard the Minister say that a number of benefits will stop if we cancel this treaty. If the Association Decision comes into force, a number of benefits will be resurrected. Then I'll be there in Morocco, then my benefit will be withdrawn first, but then it'll come back later. Isn't it much more careful, driven from these people, to calm down for a while? After all, there is a chance that there will be a treaty. This will prevent these people from getting into the situation that their benefits are gone, but that they will come back when the Association Decision comes. That's not neat, is it? I would therefore like to say to the Minister: take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u127	The SP, like other parties, will be in favour of the choice to support or not to support that law of termination. We have made our assessment of this. That is what I outlined in my speech. Each party must judge what they consider to be reasonable, considering everything, I believe that there is no one who thinks it is really very simple. I believe that the agreement as it was takes fair account of all the interests at stake here: on the one hand, the legitimate interest of the Netherlands, as expressed in both chambers, that benefits that are exported are provided at the level of the cost of living of the country and, on the other hand, the interest of people who now benefit from such benefits and who probably have contributions or other parents who have contributions to them. Those interests were in balance. That's why there was a deal. That deal's off, and that's why we're here. I just have to wait and see what the SP ultimately thinks is wise in its consideration, but that's in her hands. I think it's, uh, all-inclusive, now time to continue dealing with that termination bill with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u128	I understand. I would like to point out, however, that I now note that the benefit is going to go away and that when the association agreement comes, that benefit will be there again. You're gonna beat the shit out of me, aren't you? While, if we calm down, we know exactly how this treaty relates to the Association Decision. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u129	So Mr Ulenbelt is actually asking about the coincidence between the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u130	I understood the point. This does not apply to family allowances, as I said. It has already become clear that although there is an expectation that the Association Decision could enter into force this year or at least take a step further, there is no certainty about it. There is certainty that there was an agreement on how the treaty would be amended. In the government's view, if that agreement were to be met by both parties, the interests of all concerned would be treated reasonably. That is why we are now in this situation. If you make yourself dependent on the possibility of the Association Decision coming into force this year, you do not take into account what Parliament has said about what it considers desirable about child schemes and benefit levels. In that regard, I would say that we are letting it go too far. It creates another uncertainty. You create an unlimited time within which you have to wait for what will happen next. I don't think that's wise. I'd have liked to see it different. However, in the situation we are now in, I believe that it is wise to proceed with this withdrawal. If there are other means of control, the Christian Union asked. The termination of the treaty has its drawbacks. We've never been secretive about that either. They are based, among other things, on the agreements made in the Convention on Enforcement and Control. I have no other way of shaping that control. By the way, everyone remains, of course, obliged to comply with the law. That doesn't change. This is an obligation resting on everyone in the Netherlands, including those who apply for or benefit from benefits here or who benefit from an exported benefit. The possibilities of monitoring them are becoming less. So that's a downside. Again, that is one of the reasons why I preferred to see the treaty amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u131	If that association decision is to come into force, then there will be a return to exports of benefits. Does that offer a ground to check again after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u132	The Association Decision, as we know it now, contains certain provisions which allow for the control, verification and medical examination of disabled persons. Of course, this applies only to the exported benefits under that Association Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u133	So that doesn't give a hook to check for fraud in broad terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u134	It gives less possibilities than we have now. That's true. It is not the case that there are no possibilities, the Association Decision would enter into force. However, they are not as far-reaching as we now have under the current treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr Van Weyenberg also has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u136	Have I understood correctly from the documents that in any case the cooperation on property controls is not secured by the Association Decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u137	That's right. The Labour Party asks what consequences it has. This is not about the direct consequences, namely that Treaty provisions no longer apply, but possibly other consequences. We don't know exactly. We have concerns about what it could have consequences. At the same time, you have to put that into perspective. In that 400 years of friendship there was 40 years of this treaty and 90% of the time there wasn't. Moreover, both countries also have a great deal of interest in cooperation in the fight against terrorism and in mutual trade. In other words, it may have negative consequences, but especially now that the reason why the change is not going to go ahead is to go back to this demand in the last minute, one might expect the Moroccan government to look at it differently than it might have done in the past, but we do not know exactly. It is, of course, better to change treaties than to unilaterally cancel them. This also applies to the agreements on all kinds of other elements that are not covered by the Treaty, such as agreements on how to take back illegal aliens or even illegal criminal aliens. We are going to want to keep these agreements. I can't guarantee that that will happen. On the other hand, this ratio is longer than the period of validity of the Convention. This relationship affects vital interests of both countries: cooperation in the fight against terrorism. When I was there, I was also assured that no matter what happens, that cooperation must continue. Both countries feel that this is also a matter of substance. It would be a pity if the change did not take place. It would be a pity if it were therefore necessary to cancel the treaty. I'm confident that that relationship will be able to withstand a bump in itself, but there's a risk. I wanted to be clear about that in the direction of the Chamber. Finally, if the House were to decide by majority to terminate the treaty, I would go to the Supreme Court to ask for the cancellation law to be supported there as well. In the meantime, in this debate, I have indicated five times and otherwise that the Dutch Government is open to reaching agreement if one still wishes and I would also welcome it, in the interest of the Netherlands, in the interest of the social security base in the Netherlands but also in the interest of the people who have now become insecure because just before Christmas that deal could not continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u138	The Minister did not answer any questions from the Kuzu/Öztürk Group. He did, however, answer in detail questions from the Labour Party's group. That is my first observation. I would ask the Minister to answer my questions, because he is proposing a very important decision. I would also like to talk about Western Sahara. In the documents it says: we have talked about this once. I want the Minister to tell us a little bit more about that. What was discussed about that? What impression did he have then? And did his image still play? Because because of the Motivation research and the way in which Mr Asscher started as a minister, he has a different image than that in Amsterdam. Has it also contributed to the fact that the Moroccan government did not grant Minister Asscher at the last moment the success he supposedly had achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u139	Firstly, Mr Öztürk asked in his term for the composition of the negotiating delegation from the Netherlands. We are always trying to set them up in such a way that we can be as effective as possible. I am, of course, working closely with Minister Koenders. I am pleased to note that Mr Öztürk is a great admirer of Minister Koenders. That's what we share. It's always nice when we share something on such an evening. Secondly, the Western Sahara has once been suggested in an official round. At that time it was explained that the Netherlands would not want to change its policy on that issue. That was accepted at the time. After that, it did not return to the political agreement of September, which I informed the Chamber about. Mr Van Weyenberg asked: why is that, where did it come from, what was the point of that? I can't answer those questions. Nor can I answer the question of how the Moroccan Government feels about me or my image. Mr Öztürk should put that question to the Moroccan Government. I'm having an excellent relationship with my Moroccan minister. If Mr Öztürk were concerned about this, I would have taken it away from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u140	Well, when the Motivation study was published stating that 87% of Turkish-Dutch youth would be IS supporters, the Minister also had a discussion with the Turkish government. Then Minister Koenders stepped in. In the end, it's solved in a good way. This minister, through the investigations and the way in which he started to operate here in The Hague, has got a very different image, including in those countries and with those people. That could have had an effect on those negotiations. How is it that the officials are talking about the Western Sahara, that the whole Chamber considers it very important, and that the Minister does not include it in the negotiating document? That's a big mistake, isn't it? If the Minister had included the Western Sahara in the negotiating document, we would not have had to have had this discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u141	I do not immediately see how an investigation of Motivation has affected this choice of Moroccan government, but perhaps Mr Öztürk has more information on this than I do. Then we start guessing, and that doesn't add much to this debate. Furthermore, I do not see how the inclusion of Western Sahara could have helped in this process, unless we had decided to export it to that area. This would be contrary to several United Nations resolutions, the policy of the Netherlands and the policy of the European Union. If Mr Öztürk felt that writing the phrase "we are not going to export to Western Sahara" would have helped, he would have shown once again that he had a different view of international negotiations than the government. I only take note of that, but that does not add much to the debate we are having. We are now in a different situation. It's up to the Chamber to decide on that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u142	The Minister indicated that we would continue to negotiate, even though we have a parliamentary debate. The VVD says that the Minister is free; we have a hard head in it, because Morocco has so far proved to be an unreliable negotiating partner. Can the Minister confirm and undertake that the duration of those negotiations that he is still initiating is limited until 1 July 2016? Indeed, the VVD would not want this to be another Morocco's negotiating tactic which would prevent the Treaty from being terminated by 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u143	For the record, I'm not starting negotiations. I've been negotiating and concluding. They're flattered with congratulations and an autograph. I said the door stays open. People still have a chance to talk to us, but I'm not going to start negotiations, because I wouldn't know how to do that now. Furthermore, perhaps I should have said that even more clearly in order to continue the process now in such a way as to enable me to formally announce the withdrawal in good time, i.e. on 1 July, if the Moroccan Government has not reported to me. So we're not gonna create any more time. I am grateful to the Chamber for the time I have been given. I used that and we negotiated with it, but we are now in a different phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr Öztürk, you have had ample speaking time, and you have also placed the greatest number of interruptions by far. If you would like to place another interruption, I would like to agree with you that this is the last one and that it really is a question of fact. So no more essays on interpretations. However, you may still ask a factual question, if you can keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u145	I know VVDs can count well, but I can count well. I've been an entrepreneur, too. Mrs. Schut-Welkensn has three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u146	A factual question and no comments about a colleague. I'm gonna get a little strict right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u147	...a three-time interruption of the Minister. The Minister, as I have just indicated, has not given any answers to my questions. I ask you once again to appeal to the Minister that he does not answer my questions. If he doesn't answer, I'm gonna have to ask those questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u148	That is right, and that is why I gave you the opportunity to indicate in fact what question the Minister did not answer. But I'd like to do it without all the introductions around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u149	I think the officials have passed on all my questions to the Minister. All the questions I have asked, therefore, I would like to have answered, plus the next one, which is a very important question. There is a large group of people of Moroccan descent in the Netherlands, about 400,000. Has the Minister spoken to this community about the treaty? Has he talked about this with the widows and widowers, men and women in Morocco? Did the minister investigate what that means to them? After all, he's pretty good at doing research. Has he examined their opinion, given that there is a referendum possibility, which could have a huge impact on the whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u150	On the first point, I have answered Mr Öztürk's questions to the best of my knowledge. I may not have always mentioned his name, but he could have heard those answers sounded in the Chamber. I have therefore answered his questions on the various subjects. This is a new question. Of course I have had a lot of contact with people in the Moroccan community in the Netherlands. Information has also been provided on what the amended Treaty would entail as a result of the September deal. A new situation is now emerging as a result of the new requirement, just before Christmas. If that leads to termination, I will talk to the Moroccan community about it again and I will inform people as best I can about what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u151	A brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u152	Does the Minister not think that he should have done this kind of research before this debate and looked at the consequences of this and what people think of it, so that we could have understood it as a Chamber? The Minister is also from the investigations: he wants to investigate a lot of things. The minister and the VVD are in a hurry and the PvdA is behind it. They want to vote on Tuesday. Then they want to vote the treaty away; we are not going to do so, but the rest will do so. Then there's no point in talking to these people. If the Minister is going to talk to people from Moroccan backgrounds, I want this not only to be about the organisations that receive subsidies or who have been recruited, but to do so more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'm trying to get to the concrete point of what's being asked. In my view, Mr Öztürk's argument is that we should not continue to deal with this law now, because he wants further investigation. Of course, he's free to do that. Any party is free to be for or against that law. I don't think you can say this is gonna come as a thunderbolt right now. The history of this journey is long; it dates back to 2009 and beyond. A very large majority of the Chamber considered the principle of living in the country to be sensible. This included not only the PVV, which Mr Öztürk denounced, but also parties such as GroenLinks and the PvdA, who considered this to be a reasonable objective. I regard that statement by such a broad majority of Parliament by means of that legislation as a fact. If that's the law, it's important to keep people informed, but it's odd to ask people what they think of it two, three or even four years after adopting such a law. That's legislation. In order to implement this legislation, some countries need to adapt treaties. In other countries, this is immediately given legal force. In other countries, it works differently. I have outlined this in detail; that overview is well known. In the case of Morocco, an adaptation of the bilateral social security convention is necessary. That discussion did not begin today either. Otherwise, I would have agreed with Mr Öztürk. After such a long day, it would be strange to start that discussion. No, we have been engaged in this discussion for a number of years. So I don't think you can insist that we rush this disproportionately. It is, however, extremely regrettable, as I have already said, that the agreement we made was a proper agreement in the interests of the Netherlands, but also in the interests of Moroccans and the Kingdom of Morocco. My point is that in this case this is not to be blamed on the Dutch Government. There is also a difference of opinion on this. I take note of that, but that means that it is now up to us to continue this treatment, also because we want to take account of all the democratic possibilities, including the Referendum Act. Then you also have to speed up, because otherwise you will not even be able to submit this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you very much. I think you indicated that you had come to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u156	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u157	Excellent. No, Mr Öztürk, unfortunately I will not allow any more interruptions. There is a second deadline and you have been able to ask a number of questions. We're moving on to the second term. I am looking at which Members still need it, because a lot of questions have already been asked. I'm gonna take the members one at a time. I am looking at Mrs Schut-Welken, at Mr Dijkgraaf, at Mrs Schouten, at Mr Ulenbelt, at Mrs Yücel, at Mr Öztürk... He still needs a second term. Then he has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Chairman. It is particularly regrettable that Members of Parliament are laughing here, while a 44-year treaty is unilaterally denounced. It is also particularly unfortunate that people do not seek the possibilities and want to waltz through the Chamber very quickly. But I'll still put in my second term. The negotiations on the agreement with Morocco have taken a long time. This has not done the relationship between the countries well. The termination of the Convention could, if possible, worsen the relationship even further. This could affect entrepreneurs, governments and cultural institutions doing business with Morocco. The Minister said that there are many risks and they do not know what the consequences are. He's got a lot of questions. That's why I have the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u159	Before reading the motion, Mr Van Weyenberg has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u160	I would like to return to the point that Mr Öztürk started with. All my fellow Members take this debate very seriously and I do not let Mr Öztürk take it seriously or laugh away problems. Everyone has made their contribution here and Mr Öztürk his. It'd be nice if he'd do the same courtesy for ours as we did for his.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u161	That has been mentioned. As far as the Acts are concerned, I and a number of other Members have had to laugh at a very nice remark made by Mr Dijkgraaf. That had nothing to do with the serious subject we are discussing here tonight. I would now like to offer you the opportunity to continue reading your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u162	That's good, Mr. Chairman. Then the viewer also knows that it was about something else than I thought. It's a good thing that's being corrected. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the progress of the social security Convention with the Kingdom of Morocco has already entailed diplomatic burdens;]] [[whereas these diplomatic charges may increase further by the termination of the Convention and may not be limited to the diplomatic field;]] [[invites the Government, following the possible termination of the Convention, to report to the Court in detail on its impact on relations between the Netherlands and Morocco,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34052-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u163	We shall, moreover, vote against the termination of the treaty. Making cabinet policy is quite different from conducting international negotiations. For this you need international experience, diplomatic experience and good support. That is why I have the next motion to start negotiations with Morocco again in order to be able to conclude them properly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the diplomatic process on the Morocco Convention as a whole has lasted four years and failed;]] [[whereas the Minister for Social Affairs recently presented an agreement, but it was nevertheless not able to conclude the negotiations properly;]] [[calls on the Government to relaunch the negotiations on the agreement with Morocco with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a leading role,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34052-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr Öztürk now says that Minister Koenders must do it, but if I read the letters correctly, it was precisely Minister Koenders who was there in December and the Moroccan Government's demands about Western Sahara were heard. If a minister should be blamed, it is not this minister, but Minister Koenders, who wants to send Mr Öztürk back on the road. That seems very unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u165	To close the discussion a little bit briefly, I would like to say that the cabinet generally speaks with one voice, but I would like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u166	It's also about who you're sending on a negotiation path. I think that the Moroccan authorities have, in the final analysis, made a demand at the last moment, following the behaviour of this minister, to re-examine the treaty. I think that was also raised in the discussion with Mr Koenders. That's my point. Let's start the negotiations again. Let us send the minister who can bring the Moroccan government and the Dutch government closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u167	I note that Mr De Graaf does not need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers, as well as for the extra clarity surrounding the agreement and the status of that agreement. That was, after the letters, a further clarification. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in September 2015 the Netherlands and Morocco had reached an agreement on amending the bilateral social security convention;]] [[noting that, due to additional requirements of Morocco, the amendment of the Treaty is not yet possible;]] [[whereas the Court can only vote in favour or against the termination of the Convention, but prefers to do so if agreement is reached on amendment of the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts to reach, in consultation with Morocco, a short-term agreement on amending the bilateral social security convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34052-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u169	The background to this motion is the following. I can tell that there is a majority in the Chamber to adopt this bill. In my own group, I will consider our voting behaviour further. The Minister has already said something about it, but let us also mention it as a Chamber: whatever the outcome, so even if this bill can count on a majority here, then this point is still something we, I think, hope will be achieved with just about all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u170	What is the scope of this motion? Does it limit itself to 1 July 2016 with regard to D66, or does it continue? That determines whether the VVD votes for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u171	I get that. This is in no way an attempt at delay. I find it very difficult to look exactly ahead. If one second before noon shows that we can get out with one last point, then I do not want to rule out such an opportunity now in advance. My main thrust is that the Chamber supports the idea that the Minister intends to continue to work along. The approach is not to delay this motion in all kinds of ways. From your point of view, I understand that you say that it will stop at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u172	We have come to the end of the Chamber's second term contribution. Three motions have been tabled. We are waiting for the third motion to reach the Minister. I see now that he is able to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr. Chairman. I shall leave Mr Öztürk's motion to the vote. 19 to the Chamber. I think it would be fine to continue to inform the Chamber about relations, as we have always done so far. Behind Mr Öztürk's motion on item No. 20's a whole story we just heard. I found little support for his theory in the facts. Let me reassure Mr Öztürk by saying that wherever possible and we consider it useful, we will use Koenders or any member of the government. I advise against this motion, also because it calls on me to revive the negotiations. This is difficult, because there is only one requirement that is now fundamental, one that we cannot accept. So far, it has not become clear to me whether Mr Öztürk believes that we should or should not comply with that requirement. The Dutch Government is not prepared to do so, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 21 from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Yücel, I would like to explain as I have just outlined, and from his speech I got the impression that this is possible: the door remains open and if it makes sense, I am also prepared to make a real commitment and to have discussions on this. I cannot now take the initiative of negotiating either because it is really just one thing. I say to Mrs Schut: I am sticking to the deadline I have just set. Within that framework, I shall leave the decision on the motion to the Chamber. She is actually an expression of the feeling that I have observed with many parties: we would have liked the September deal and if one way or another, it would be preferable because of all the other arguments. I see Mr Van Weyenberg nodding. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u174	Judgment of the Court of Justice for the motion in part No. 21. Mr Öztürk, you would like to ask another question about your motion. That may be so, but I believe that the views on the part of the Foreign Minister have been sufficiently discussed. If you have another question on another point, I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u175	I would like to thank the Minister for his assessment of my motion in part No. 19 late to the Chamber. That's another thing that binds us. That is the second point. At my motion in part No. 20 he asked me a question. It's stuck and I'll have to answer it anyway. I care about the children and the widows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u176	I didn't ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u177	No, you said I would agree with Morocco's demand. That's where the question was. I am not concerned with the discussion of Western Sahara. I care about the children and the widows who live there. If Minister Koenders can find a solution there and bring us together, then he has also solved the problem of you and of all of us. That is the thrust I always want to put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u178	I think you clarified this point. There's no explicit question in it. However, I would like to ask you to address the directors present here with 'you', for the clarity of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-7.u179	Thank you all very much. I would also like to thank the Minister very much, as well as the staff who have held this debate with us so late in the day. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
