ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u1	I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice. I call Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Cutting into police," headlined the wake-up newspaper of the Netherlands today. There are still 50 million savings to be made this year on detection, prosecution, prisons and the fight against terrorism. With that the last bit of air ran out of the VVD election balloon of 300 million for safety. For a moment, it seemed like the VVD was going to close the holes that she hit herself in our safety for six years. If there's extra money, that would be fantastic. I would welcome that. But unfortunately: of a firm commitment, a financially sound plan remained nothing but a vague VVD-election promise for 2017, while the need is in 2016. Crime pays more and more because the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary can't keep up. The money is up, by cutting down on austerity, by misplaced priorities, such as the animal police and the weed pass, by a VVD minister who wanted too much from the police with too little money and certainly too little time, and by cutting down on counter-terrorism, which means that we are now running behind the facts. Meanwhile, the alarming reports pile up: Hoekstra, Oosting, PwC on police shortages, Huisman on lack of detectives, the Galan Group on savings risks at the Public Prosecutor's Office and Cohen on lack of money for the quality of justice. Where the VVD wanted to play nicely again with so-called extras, which might come in 2017 that is allowed, of course, the opposition does the real work here, such as arranging money for the intelligence services or in anticipation of the budget of V and J. If it was really the VVD to do security, we wouldn't be here tonight. Then money had now been found for 2016. Then holes were closed now. But the VVD chooses security money in an election year. She's choosing party interests over national interests again. The alarm clock is not only ringing next year; it was ringing yesterday and it is ringing today. Listen to the foremen from the safety chain, too. I quote Chief Akerboom: I can no longer carry out the current police duties. Attorney General Bolhaar: the water is on the lips. Crime is not sufficiently addressed and can grow. A quote from the mayors: I invest in the police, but it squeaks and cracks. President-in-Office of the Court of Justice of the European Communities Bakker: predatory work is carried out on judges. And then the General Court, our great auditor: V and J is financially out of control. But the cabinet is sticking its fingers in the ears. The Minister of Finance even spoke with dedain about the 'call for democracy'. Over and over again, the opposition suggested repairing the holes. I put out my hand, said the Minister of Finance in the Financial Reviews. He thus raised expectations with us as a Chamber, but the cabinet never came by for Security and Justice. Even the coalition senators abandoned the cabinet. They also want additional resources for this budget. Both chambers made a hard appointment with this minister just before Christmas: support for his 2016 budget, but additional money in the spring note to solve the security problems. That was the deal. Three motions have been passed here and one in the First Chamber. Not for 2017, no, for 2016. That's why we're here tonight. In November last year, the Minister literally said: "I understood Mr Pechtold very well when he said that he expected me to be combative. I will." However, he was sent away in the Trêveszaal with empty hands: zero euro for the safety chain. What do you mean maximum combatable? Six years of VVD on V and J and still no urgency. On the contrary: the opposition must, according to VVD'er Halbe Zijlstra, act a bit normal. Can I quote another liberal? "Take it easy on yourself." After six years of VVD mess, people don't fall for yet another election promise. People want action now, because the problems are there now, in 2016, and the list is long. I ask the Minister to respond to every point. The police have a deficit of EUR 54 million for police personnel and equipment. The police closed 2015 with 72 million in red. The police have a 7% absenteeism, double the national average. The police are sending ICT guys home. Neighborhood agents are overloaded. The detectives are performing so far below the standards that one-tenth of the submitted cases are dismissed for lack of evidence. The clearing rate remained at 26. Meanwhile, the number of reports of confused persons is increasing. In a year, it rose from 40,000 to 65,000. And DNA removal in convicts is still not settled despite the Bart case of yours. The Public Prosecutor's Office has a deficit of 17 million. The parquet in Rotterdam alone has 1,000 cases that are on the shelf for more than a year. Due to errors in the file, the number of acquittals has doubled. There is insufficient time and capacity to combat undermining crime. What about justice? It stands for 15 million in the red numbers. We're gonna have to close seven more courts. Budget cuts at the NFI keep homicide and rape cases on the shelf. And due to the lack of detectives, 1,000 unsolved homicide cases and another 500 very serious unsolved crimes, such as rapes and robberies, remain unsolved. I'm gonna finish up. These are problems that are going on right now. The opposition does not stand by and watch the security chain fall under empty electoral promises, and the opposition does not allow the minister to vote two chambers for his budget, but then does not comply with his part of the agreement. Specifically, we want EUR 200 million in the 2016 Spring Note for police, OM, justice and NFI. I am reaching out to the Minister once again, but it is slowly becoming a lame hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u3	I do not agree with so much of what Mr Pechtold said about the importance of the safety chain and its investment. What if the cabinet doesn't accept your hand-off, Mr. Pechtold? In November last year, three motions on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the courts were adopted. We have also supported it. One of them was yours. You said at the time that if that does not work, we might be voting against the budget for security and justice. In the end, your group did not do that, not even in the First Chamber, and that is a respectable choice. What if the cabinet were to say again: Mr Pechtold, we do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u4	I think that is a fair question. Let me be honest with you: I have not yet figured that out. I am the first speaker in the first term of the debate. I'm very disappointed. Indeed, in November I got lyrics here which made me think it would be arranged in spring. In the end, it concerns me and you, too, whether it is the opposition or the coalition, about the laundry list that I have just mentioned. That's all I care about. It's about the police officers and the officers who are frustrated to do their job. At the end of this debate, I expect the cabinet to make it clear that it is going to settle this for 2016. Then the cabinet has the entire opposition behind it and it also gets the support of the coalition. Together, we can find that money with ease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u5	I hope that will help Mr Pechtold. But I saw yesterday that the minister in the media said: well, then the opposition votes against. He did not seem impressed either by this debate or by the noises that you, Mr Pechtold, and others in the media reacted to. Mr Pechtold said in November that his group would vote against if she did not get it. D66 then voted very gulliblely for the budget. Now it appears from the Spring Paper that the Minister simply did not deliver. If Mr Pechtold again says to the Minister that he really should do it, but the Minister does not do it and is not bound by it, it is very easy for this Minister to do it in future. Then why would he even come to a debate? After all, there is no sanction on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u6	I understand Mr Wilders very well. I do not want to be faint and say that he often goes straight from the first gear to the fifth of the motion of censure. He also knows that that often doesn't help. That's the same call in the darkness. I'm looking at the chairman now, too. Three motions have been passed. A motion has also been passed in the Senate. Those were clear, brief motions. If I have to, I'm filing another one of these tonight and I expect the whole Chamber to see to it that passed motions are supported. I'll tell the coalition I don't want it to come to this. We can make it quick tonight. We cannot allow the Minister to respond to all the points I have mentioned, because that is going to be a painful list. But I do expect that is also my answer to Mr Wilders' question that the Minister will keep the promise he has just made and that the motions will be carried out. That does not really require a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u7	Madam President. This cabinet presented a budget full of holes at Prinsjesdag. The Minister of Security and Justice is threatening to become a Hansje Brinker, only there are more gaps in the budget than the Minister has fingers. The Spring note only comes with 49 million extra for the police. That money is all for the refugee shelter and not for all the other tasks of the police. There's nothing for justice, where there's big holes, and nothing for the D.A.'s office. The minister's making holes. Meanwhile, he, the cabinet and the coalition parties, suggest that they're not going to fill it until next year. In the media, the coalition is taking the flight forward with an extra 300 million for next year. However, the Chamber does not know anything yet. So my first question is whether those messages are correct. In the meantime, however, this year's problems are not being solved. This debate is taking place for a long time. It started at Prince's Day. The 2016 budget of Security and Justice was a string-tone budget. There was a warning from the opposition. She thought it was irresponsible. Opposition wide, in the width of the Chamber, concerns have been expressed about the revenue received from legislative proposals that would not receive support in the First Chamber, and about the shortages in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Court and the NFI. The debate with the Minister on the budget was held in November. The Minister said reassuring words, but motions had to be adopted from the opposition: solve the problems in the spring note. And the minister said in the Chamber that in the event of bottlenecks, he would be combative in the spring note. The opposition only agreed to the budget after the motions were accepted. Over it came that in spring the top men of the criminal justice chain, of the security chain, were the alarm clock. Top policemen, justice and justice were the alarm clock. Bolhaar of the Public Prosecutor's Office: 40 million in the long run. Courts, Mr Bakker: 50 million in the long run. Mr Akerboom of the police: in the long run we need 300 million more if we are to maintain the police force. The promise made to the opposition was reaffirmed by the Prime Minister in the Brussels debate in March. He said, of course, I understand the signal very well. That was after the motion tabled with Mr Buma as the first signatory. This motion addressed precisely these problems. And what did the Prime Minister say? Of course, I understand the signal very well and that signal also reflects the conclusions of the Minister of Security and Justice on the 2016 budget. He considered the debate and the motion as further incentives. But the promise made in November and March was not fulfilled. This morning the news from De Telegraaf got over it, stating that there is a new setback of 53 million. I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction. What do we need now? The police need over 130 million, the Public Prosecutor's Office 20 million, justice 30 million. And now we have the new setbacks. This debate is not about the opposition's long toes. This debate is about the security of citizens. What happens if we don't do something? Then it is very doubtful whether all the courts can remain open, although that was a hard demand of the Chamber. Meanwhile, we see that the number of declarations decreases, that 20% of the declarations disappear directly into the trash bin. There are gaps: in dealing with serious crime and in dealing with child pornography and trafficking in human beings, things that are not always discovered by means of declarations but also by their own investigations. Business stays down. This year there have been 20% fewer trafficking cases, not because there is less human trafficking, but because there is less money to do something about it. There's holes falling. Fired, threatened dismissals from police, prosecutor's office and justice: it's all not imaginary, because the money has to come from somewhere. If nothing happens, people will be sent away. The much-needed recruitment of new agents due to the ageing of the police force is in danger of falling apart. The unbudgeted costs incurred by the police around MH17 and the EU Presidency will not be reimbursed. Additional costs incurred to combat trafficking in human beings will not be reimbursed. Extra money for policemen's pensions will not be reimbursed. Money to invest in quicker picking up and bringing offenders to justice will not be reimbursed. In the meantime, the General Court says that there has been structural under-financing of justice since 2010, which means that judges have less time to prepare matters properly. I'm very, very worried. It's a very threatening picture. The rule of law is at stake here. The fact that people are being justiced, that citizens are being protected and that evil is being punished is at stake here. What is at stake here is a core task of the government: to do justice and to provide security for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u8	Madam President. In a world threatened by terrorism, security should be the top priority. But the safety chain can barely keep its head above water. Whether it's the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary or the NFI, the water's on the lips everywhere. The difference between the Minister's soothing language on the one hand and the alarming reports from the workplace on the other is huge. I'll hear it myself when I'm on a job visit. We read it all this morning in De Telegraaf. It squeaks and it cracks. The resolution rate is low and falls before it rises. There are threats of dismissal, for example in the forensic search. Police and justice are still at risk of shrinking. Courts are still threatening to close their gates. Either the minister doesn't listen to the workplace, or he doesn't want to hear it, but he can't deny it anymore. I also say it to the Minister: for the CDA, but I think for the opposition as a whole, we wouldn't be standing here if we didn't constantly hear things other than what this minister says, namely that it is a very big problem, that there are deficits in this year. Every time we go to work or talk to people, we hear different stories than the Minister brings forward here. It can't go on like this. I just saw the Minister shake his head when I said what the problems were, like there's nothing going on. There's only one reality. Have all the people who have spoken to us in recent times, with the opposition, but I also think with the coalition, have said nonsense? I don't believe that. Does the minister make it prettier than it is? I'm terribly afraid that's the problem. Where the Ministry of V and J should be the guardian of the rule of law, it has become the rise of the departments. It drags from incident to incident. In the autumn of 2015, it was enough for the Chamber, at least for the opposition. In this respect, for the first time, there was a reduction of EUR 250 million in the budget. But the Minister also stated that he realized that it was not enough and that there would be more relief from the Spring Note. That was the confidence in which the Chamber held a debate with this minister in the last six months. He said he'd take care of it if he had to. And to this day, the Minister says that there is no problem, that there will be no dismissals, that no courts will close. But the story on the work floor is different. There will be no extra money, because all the money that is now coming has already been committed to the budget. It's like the opposition's falling for that! The answer is no. Of the promises made in the last six months, nothing is left. We see the adaptation of December now on paper. In itself, the good news is that it now seems that the coalition of PvdA and VVD is helping the minister to raise extra money for next year, 2017. We hear from the media that it amounts to 300 million. There's a problem here. Let us first assume that something like this is going to happen. We've seen it before at the AIVD. And that's what the Chamber wants to prevent now. First the good people ran away because there was no money, then the Chamber ordered the minister to arrange money and now the service has to look for people again. This must not be allowed to happen with the services he is responsible for. There are problems with the D.A., the judiciary and the police now. There the people had already been fired, there they were already to other jobs, there the AIVD was already draining. I keep saying that we hear from the workplace that this is happening here. There are two possibilities: either everyone who goes to work constantly hears wrong information, or the Minister sketches it a little more beautifully. What's the Justice Department doing in the meantime? A lot of work. This year alone, the Justice Department has raised EUR 350 million in large settlements. Who's the laughing third? Not the Minister of Security and Justice, but the Minister of Finance. 100 million can go to the Department of Justice, 250 million just goes into the big pot. And that's what those people from the Justice Department are working for this year. What seems to be the case now? The Minister will partly close the financial gaps by raising traffic fines again or passing out more. I'd like a response to that. I can't believe it, but I'd like to hear it from the Minister. After all that has happened, after all the incidents that we have had, this Minister must show all the promises that have not been fulfilled, that he can deliver this post, that he stands before his people, that he acknowledges their comments that they can't handle it, and that he doesn't keep saying in the Chamber that nothing is going on. This minister, together with the Prime Minister if necessary, must assume his responsibility, not because the opposition demands it, but because the Netherlands needs it and because the people for whom this minister is responsible need it. Promises for the future are beautiful, but it's about now, the year 2016. We do not want to move forward, we do not want any more promises, we want results, and we want results for the summer. Justice, police and security services must be able to do the work they have to do for the whole of the Netherlands, namely to ensure security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Security is a top priority. Security is a core task of the government. It is precisely at this time with so many security challenges that I am only mentioning the threat of terrorism that it is clear that this security chain is expected to increase. That is why it is so painful that there are so many gaps in the safety chain over and over again. Madam President, as you know, as a SGP Group, we have no tradition of taking the highest opposition tone in debates with the government, but I must confess that in the past I have been struck by the many distress signals from the security chain. The police say: we really do not have enough money for district agents, in rural areas we often cannot carry out our security tasks. The state's attorney's office is under enormous pressure as a result of all the cuts. Too many cases remain. More is rightly expected of them, but in practice this cannot be achieved, because so many employees are already walking on their toes. The case-law rightly refers to the reports, for example those of the General Court, which indicate that there is structural underfunding. In short, every day there are a lot of people who do very good work, also for the safety of the Netherlands, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, but at the same time many people suffer from so many cuts and reorganisations. That also discourages them from doing their job properly. But there was hope in the discussion of the last budget of Security and Justice. We had a good debate and the government's answer was clear: "Wait a minute. Just be patient. Not everything can be equal. But with the spring note, it's gonna be fine, then it's gonna be settled. Then comes the sweet after the acid." But that promise for the future threatens to become a sweetener, because even if you study the spring note with a magnifying glass, there are hardly any additional investments in the safety chain. I am talking about extra money, new money, not the things that have already been mentioned in previous letters. Once again there is hope, because what does the cabinet say? "In the coming budget for the following years, then we will really settle it. It's not quite certain yet, but you can be sure it's going to be okay." I believe and hope that is indeed the reality. But if that necessity is clearly felt widely, if that space is apparently seen for next year and if I read in the financial documents that certain payments that should actually take place next year should take place now, then surely if there is any room, that top priority security, that core task of the government, should be fulfilled now. Then you don't have to wait till Princess Day, do you? Then we can do business without a golden carriage and without the tamdam of autumn and close those holes? First we cut back and then we close holes, that yo-yo policy, that loss of capital and that frustration have we seen enough already? Just look at how it went with the General Intelligence and Security Service. That is why the call from the SGP is: do not let us wait until tomorrow, until this autumn, but keep the commitments and make an extra security budget now. Now that extra money is needed. Now that extra money is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. Billions for development aid, the EU and asylum seekers. This cabinet has no hesitation in doing so, but for our security, the core task of the government, the budget is totally inadequate. That is irresponsible and dangerous. The cabinet keeps cutting back on the police and the DA this year. Rutte II puts the knife in the fight against crime, so the Chamber had to hear this morning through De Telegraaf. We're being fucked. The extra money for police and justice for 2017 is also a cloth for bleeding, a meaningless tip. In these times of terror, we do not need millions but billions, and not occasional but structural. The cabinet also gives the police and the prosecutor a big kick. Minister Dijsselbloem said he was all done with their whining and begging for extra money. It was an embarrassing display, a minister unworthy. Because the facts don't lie. With the police, the chronic shortage of resources breaks the organization hard. The public prosecutor also urgently needs extra money this year in order to continue to operate. This is how the security chain works against terrorists and serious criminals. Only in the fantasy world of the VVD has the Netherlands become safer. In reality, thousands of criminals are free, prisons are empty, Moroccan street thugs are free and half of all police stations are closed. My group understands that parties like the CDA, D66 and the SP feel deceived. They supported the Justice budget and were then fooled. But maybe it was a little naive, too. What did they expect from this unreliable cabinet? For years, Rutte II has broken all promises smiling. In these times, no one can be naive anymore. Last weekend, 50 people were killed in a terrorist attack in Orlando. Of course, it could have taken place in Amsterdam or in The Hague. Billions of investments in security are therefore of the utmost importance. We say to the cabinet: stop playing political games and invest 6 billion more in our security as soon as possible. A prosperous country like the Netherlands should no longer neglect its core tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. People are worried about their safety. Those are, as I see it, other concerns than they were a few years ago. A number of years ago, the concerns focused mainly on the safety of one's own home. How do I prevent a break-in? Why isn't that creepy tunnel lit up? Can I have my daughter ride through that? As a shopkeeper, how do I prevent my store from being robbed? There have been major steps taken by the Rutte I and Rutte II Cabinets; I will come back to that in a moment. But another, more elusive care has replaced it. Events around us, in countries around us, and the arrival of large numbers of newcomers in our own country have created a different sense of insecurity. People are scared. People are just afraid that a terrorist attack can take place in our country. No one knows where, no one knows by whom, but the odds are there. For the first time people are wondering: is it really safe to travel to Amsterdam with King's Day? That really freaks me out. For the first time, I sense around me that people feel a kind of displeasure when at the Central Station, just here in The Hague, a backpack is left unattended. So I think it's perfectly normal for people to look at the government, look at us to guard them. "As best as possible," I say, because there is no such thing as 100% safety. We cannot prevent attacks as such, but we can ensure that our services, our police and our military police are as well equipped as possible to deal with the dangers. We have that duty. And yes, there are sufficient resources. And yes, the VVD is committed to that. The Chamber can therefore certainly imagine that I was pleased when I read in the newspapers last Monday the news that colleagues were talking about before me, because it confirmed the picture that seems to be invested in security in 2017. The VVD continues to fight for that investment in safety. I told you, in terms of security around our homes and shops, steps have already been taken. The Netherlands will be safer if you see the crime statistics and victim surveys. But we're not here; we need to keep investing. People who guard our security, who take a step forward when others take a step back, must be able to do their job. This applies to police officers, prosecutors, the military police and the secret services. We can't settle everything at once, but we have to take steps, more and more steps. We do; we try to do so all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u12	The VVD colleague talks about investing, but in the Spring paper, the VVD's signature is mainly below investing in additional expenses for the foreign chain, for asylum seekers. If you add up everything, from V and J to OCW, the cost of care and social affairs, does Mr Van Oosten have any idea what the changes are to the Spring Note compared to the Millions Note? How much does he think is added to the Spring note with the signature of the VVD for what is called the "foreign chain" with a beautiful word?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm not in a quiz here, and I'm not gonna be a part of it. However, I am well aware that there is a great deal of money going on and on in that chain of foreigners. That is the responsibility that the VVD takes as a government party. Why? Because the strangers are here. We all have plans to organize things differently, but they're here, and then you have a responsibility to take responsibility for that. That's what the VVD stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u14	So the colleague of the VVD has no idea. He has no idea what his party signed up for. Can I ask you one more time? It's not a quiz; it's just that people at home want to know if he knows what it's about. The 2016 Millions Note was based on 26,000 asylum seekers and estimated at 1.2 billion for 2016. How much do you think was added to the Spring Note, Mr Van Oosten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u15	You know, Mr President, I am not going to lower myself here to mention all kinds of amounts, because do you know what will happen next? Then the numbers dive all over us. What do people at home understand about that? They only want one thing, don't they? They want the conviction, from me as a Member of Parliament, and certainly from you, Mr Wilders, that we are committed to this security and that we are therefore also addressing the problem of the unprecedented flow of migration. I am not going to pick up on what my colleague Azmani has proposed, but that is what this is all about at the end of the day. But if people are here, it's gonna cost. Nor can I make that better; that is to bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u16	So the colleague of the VVD knows nothing about beating or blowing. What these figures show is that the VVD is indeed no longer fighting for safety in the Netherlands. One piece of shit: $49 million extra for the police. I will not list all the amounts, Madam President, which would cost me an entire evening, but can I indicate what extra budget has been made for the foreign chain with the signature of the VVD in the Spring paper? On top of that 1.2 billion, the Spring note with the signature of the VVD added another 1.8 billion for everything related to foreigners. IND: 40 million. CAO: 700 million. Assistance for asylum influx: nearly 100 million. And I can go on like this for a while. In other words, the VVD anno today considers billions for asylum influx far more important than security in the Netherlands. So far you have been weakened, Mr van Oosten. I hope a lot of people are listening tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u17	There are undoubtedly a lot of people listening, but I assume that these people understand that as long as people are in this country, we have responsibility for that, even though we would like it all to be organized differently. It is a pity that Mr Wilders avoids that responsibility again. I just said the VVD is investing in security. Sometimes it's a very hard fight to invest, because you have to find where to find the money for it. In any case, we are investing, and we are also providing the powers. I will come back to that very briefly, but that is what it is all about. You need to offer a perspective on the new crime and the new crime that is coming towards us. I've been working on that every day, that's my drive and the reason I went into politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr Van Oosten says that he is fighting for security and that he wants to invest in it. He felt that steps should be taken forward, but then he screened a newspaper article about which we were very difficult to debate here. If Mr Van Oosten does not mind, I would prefer to go back to the facts and to what is ahead: the Spring Paper. Is it acceptable to the VVD Group that instead of taking steps forward, we should take steps backwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u19	I dispute that steps are being taken backwards, because that is not the issue. Investment is being made in security, and powers are being created in this area. I shall come back to this later, because I think that some groups really do not have their responsibilities in this respect. For example, investments are being made so that the investigation authorities can get back to work. I cannot formally confirm anything, but I do recognise the full intention of my own group. I do not know better than that the Minister is fighting for this security too, and I am confident that he will do his utmost to ensure that this is also achieved in the Millions Note, amidst all the other challenges that this country faces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Van Oosten speaks in raging phrases about fighting, safety and investment. But the fact is that the foremen of the police, of the Public Prosecutor's Office and of justice say that if nothing happens now, they're going to have to send people home. Do they speak the truth? Are they giving an honest image or giving a false image?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u21	If I am not mistaken, Mr Segers himself has asked the Minister this question, and the cabinet will reply to it later. I did not get the indication given by Mr Segers. I do not dispute that these three organisations will, of course, have to do their best to spend the money as well as possible, but I think we should expect them to do so. In an organisation like the police, EUR 5 billion are involved and there are around 60,000 agents working. Of course, you will then have a discussion about what to spend the money on and how to do it. In an organisation with EUR 5 billion, we must also be able to ensure that the basic care of the police is not neglected. The VVD doesn't accept that; we really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u22	That promise, "we don't," I've heard before. I have heard before that there would be investment in safety and that there would be no deterioration. We heard that promise in November and then we agreed to it. That promise turned out to be worth very little, because people will be sent home soon. That is what the top people of the three organizations I have just mentioned say, and that is the picture that is being sketched out. Are they lying or telling the truth? That question will have to be answered by the VVD Group. The question before us, however, is: is the promise made by the VVD at the time and which it is doing again worth something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr Segers has put a lot of questions in his contribution. He asks me if the top people of the various organizations are lying, but he has to ask them himself. I only note that there is a lot of money going there and that, if that is not enough or if there is a shortage, the VVD will stand for it. However, I am also curious about the Minister's answers to the direct question about the number of redundancies. In any case, the VVD stands for the word it is now giving and that it gave last year. The VVD invests in safety if it has to and if it needs to, because that's what it stands for. The VVD won't let it happen that basic police care in this country is out of order. We won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u24	The VVD does not stand for safety at all and the word of the VVD is not worth anything at all on this point either. What happened? The VVD voted in favour of the motions in which the government was asked to make additional money available in the Spring Note when considering the 2016 budget, i.e. at the end of 2015. I refer to the Kooiman motion on the police, the Pechtold motion on the prosecution and the Oskam motion on justice. The VVD voted for it. I assume she has done so knowingly and not in a fit of insanity. Then we cannot accept that the cabinet should simply ignore these motions. You cannot accept that, Mr Van Oosten, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u25	I simply note that this cabinet has invested three times more money in security and justice. If you want some of the credits, be my guest. It's about security. I don't care who the winner of that is, as long as it happens. In addition, I want to create further perspective. That's why I'm referring to those newspaper articles last Monday. I want to make sure that we have sufficient resources to fight the new threats that are coming to us, and I hope that I will have the opportunity to talk about them in a moment. That's what the VVD's doing. Invest? Yes, but also provide powers. We just make sure that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judges and the prison system can get started every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u26	I think this is a little too important to turn this into a campaign game, as if the opposition were trying to get this into her name. Mr Van Oosten is from the party that announced through the press last Monday that 300 million might be available, but that is not what we are saying here. We officially don't know anything yet. That debate will come later. This is about this year. We're not crazy! This is about 2016. This year, people are going out at the state's attorney's office, at the NFI and at the police. Let us become an AIVD scenario, regretting the capital destruction that we have committed, as several spokesmen have already said? Or do we stop it? That question is before us today. The VVD can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr Van Nispen makes it appear as if the police are being fired, as if prosecutors were being pulled away. I don't have that indication at all. Mr Segers has just asked questions about this. So let us hear what the Minister is going to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u28	The police are heading for bankruptcy. We gotta get 2,000 cops out of here. We've been talking about the NFI all afternoon. Mr Van Oosten also knows the tables. We've got to get dozens of people out. The Minister even replied. Mr Van Oosten knows that, but he acts like nothing is wrong. I think that's incredible. Under the responsibility of the VVD, more than 100 million savings have been made on the Public Prosecutor's Office, but Mr Van Oosten still dares to claim that the VVD stands for security. I think that's incredible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u29	I can say anything about this, but I should like to confine myself to one theme: the NFI. We have had a debate on this this afternoon. Mr Van Nispen should not put me in the mouth that the debate had the direction he saw from his perspective. I spoke on behalf of the VVD about maintaining the quality of forensic care. I don't care if the NFI does or doesn't. It's not about protecting some government organization. It is my duty to ensure that this care is delivered in full and to the fullest extent possible. That's what we talked about. The Minister has taken us on board in the matters to be dealt with in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am surprised that Mr Van Oosten says all this. It is so very different from what I hear! I just said that in my input. I think it is also very different from everything that colleagues have heard. If Mr Van Oosten has spoken to the people of the field, he must have heard other things than what he is saying here. He says there'll be no layoffs. That's right, because they do it with natural course, but the occupation is getting smaller. When the new chief of police arrived, he said on the first day, on the basis of an external report, that it would take EUR 300 million for the police alone to stay strong at all. Did Mr Van Oosten hear that? What has he done since then to verify that? Does he share the Chief Constable's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u31	I'm repeating myself a little bit. I have tried to say that I am so incredibly pleased with the reports in the newspapers last Monday, because I recognize the full intention from which my group chairman, myself and my group colleagues speak. My group chairman has always said: you can count on the VVD, we stand for it, so we stand for that police officer and we ensure that we are committed to the highest level of security in this country, and we do so with the help of and thanks to all those thousands of police officers. Mr Van Haersma Buma himself states that there has been no dismissal. I find it silly that there are Members of Parliament who keep saying that they are fired from the police, and I do not think it is chic to have a discussion with each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u32	The question is what Mr Van Oosten is doing for security. There's 2,000 cops going out; that's right. If nothing happens, there'll be less than 2,000 cops. They may not be fired, but they are no longer there, and that has nothing to do with safety. Mr Van Oosten bypasses the answer to my question, so I will try again and not again, because if Mr Van Oosten does not want to answer that is his choice. Does Mr Van Oosten share what the Chief Constable said, namely that EUR 300 million is needed for the police alone, not for the whole chain, to stay on strength at all? Does he share that view, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u33	I share the view that the police must remain strong, but I also say something about it. I also think that the police themselves should get to work. Mr Pechtold just indicated that absenteeism is 7%. This will have all kinds of causes, but it is far above the national average. I do not think it is wrong at all for me or my colleague to call on the police organisation to do so, because there is also a profit in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u34	I remember the campaign very well. "Strike for those who deserve punishment," "More punishment and less understanding for criminals" and "That was my favorite "We pay us blue." We want to see more of that on the street." With this, the VVD went into the Netherlands and thus, in addition to the promise of €1,000 and "no money for the Greeks," she seduced the voter. Now, after five, six years of VVD policy, we see a big mess. The independent Court of Auditors says that this ministry is not in control of the finances. What does that say to the VVD spokesperson?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u35	If you had followed me a little bit, you would have known that I have always been extremely critical of this towards the Cabinet and the Minister for Security and Justice. Further on, I would like to ask the Minister about a very important point of the Court of Auditors, namely whether he is really working on streamlining the police force. There's an inefficiency and a weird double in there, and that's just not good. I've also been constantly calling for the Director FEZ to be in control. Of course, it needs to be firmer, it needs to be better. But Mr Pechtold also knows, and with that I finish my reply, that there has been quite a lot of work done by the Minister and his Secretary of State, precisely in order to achieve full control of the Ministry. Is it finished tomorrow? No, but it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u36	Is it finished tomorrow? It was the third year the Court of Auditors wrote that it was a financial mess at the Ministry of V and J. This minister has a month or seven, eight, if he's lucky, before there's another election. Six years the VVD has been on that mess and now the opposition, from left to right, has to say that it is a problem for this year. We're not gonna wait for the VVD's election promises, because they're not worth anything. We want commitments now. We want the adopted motions to be carried out. My question is therefore as follows. Does the VVD consider that the adopted motions in the Lower House and the First Chamber concerning police, Public Prosecutor's Office and justice should be carried out, as promised?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u37	The motions called for and called for the creation of sufficient resources for the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary to get to work. I see that perspective is being offered. I also see that until recently, up to three additional investments have been made. If more investment is needed because the police are asking for it, because security in this country requires it, then the VVD must stand for it. I said that last year, I say that in various debates with fellow spokesmen, Justice, and I say that again. But I do not just have to follow the lead of the motion tabled by Mr Pechtold, among others, last year. It's the bigger picture that matters to me. We must ensure that there is confidence that all groups, including the VVD, and in particular the Cabinet, are fully committed to the security of the country. That's what this is all about, isn't it? You do that sometimes with money, but also with powers. You've failed in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u38	Come with the you-boxes. Mr Van Oosten says as a Member of Parliament: not if the Chamber asks for it. That is again a very special role concept of a VVD room member. We had another one, his predecessor. He's a minister now. It is apparently an open application: if you declare your role as a Member of Parliament to be zero, you can then become a member of the VVD. No, he says, not if the Chamber asks for it in a motion, but if the police ask for it. That is what Buma, Segers and I, too, have just said in the first term. 300 million, says the police alone. The Chamber says it in a motion. The police are asking. The D.A.'s asking. The judiciary is asking. The NFI is screaming for it. Neighborhood cops on TV, cold case cops on TV, they're all saying, "This year, things are gonna go wrong." Does Mr Van Oosten, the VVD'er Van Oosten, now say to all those police officers, all those officers and all those judges who are currently working on our security: wait for the new VVD's election promises?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u39	I already told you what the VVD says. What I am saying and what all my group colleagues are saying is that you can count on the VVD and that the VVD will not let it happen that the quality of police care in this country is decreasing. We are not going to let that happen, because that is what we stand for. That is what we have entered into the elections with, and of course we are going to go along with it in the next elections, not because we want to become big, but because we consider this to be a pure necessity. That's all we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u40	Never thought I would say to the VVD as a GroenLinkser: what a weak and woolly story about safety. All the colleagues here are asking a number of very specific questions, but the only thing we get are a little broad-minded and woolly answers about the future of safety, that we think it is so important and people's concerns. Just keep it real concrete. We are talking about the current year 2016, not about what will happen in the future. We are told from various quarters that there are deficits, both from the management itself and from a variety of reports: 54 million staff and equipment shortages, 50 million deficit due to additional costs on ICT, extra costs due to a possible assignment. We are told that if there is no extra money this year, people will have to drain and ICT projects will have to be stopped which will have to be restarted next year because additional money will be available. Can Mr van Oosten say that it is not a question of left or right, election promises or passed motions, but of proper administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u41	I am trying to do this all the time by pointing out to you and to colleagues that as far as the VVD is concerned, it is not going to happen that the quality of the basic care of the police will decrease. We just won't let that happen. Mr Segers has already asked questions, so I do not need to repeat them. The Minister will answer them in a moment. I trust that these are good answers, in which I see once again the confirmation that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u42	As Mr Pechtold said, we are representatives of the people. We have the cabinet to check. When I see these figures, I worry about the continuity of the safety chain. That's what Mr Van Oosten is doing, isn't it? I'm asking him to go into this very precisely. It's like he's not worried about the amounts I mention. He says that absenteeism is still very high, but there is a total of 5 billion to be spent in that organization, so it's all to be taken care of. If there are signs that this will cause gaps, is Mr Van Oosten prepared to take additional steps this year? If it turns out that projects that are to be re-launched next year if there is money or that people are to be re-launched next year, is Mr Van Oosten prepared to look for additional resources this year to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u43	If the quality of the police cannot be maintained, then that is what we need to talk about. Of course, because that's the word of the VVD. But you act like you do every time. I have questions about that, but they have already been asked to the Minister. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a perspective on these additional investments. I can only say soberly that up to three times we have all worked for that; let me then go to the Ministry of Security and Justice very widely about his extra money, including for the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u44	Colleagues and I have mentioned a number of times where this information comes from. It comes partly from the top of the police department or the D.A.'s office. It comes from all sorts of reports, which contain these alarming statements. It's not that we all woke up this morning and thought: let's make up some figures. I would like to put a very simple question to Mr Van Oosten. He says he's not worried or that he doesn't share that concern. Where does he get his information that there would be no problem? Can he call me one source of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u45	I never said I wasn't worried. In fact, I have started my contribution with the concerns that I see in this society and which I myself experience. If you want to do something about those concerns, you need to be able to rely on a well-oiled police force. If Mr Klaver asks me if I am standing in front of that police force, I can only give one answer: yes, of course I am!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u46	Why does Mr van Oosten think that if he hears these figures and has no information to show that these figures are not correct, that police care is not at risk? Then why does he think that ICT projects do not need to be stopped? Then why does he think people don't have to drain? I can only draw one conclusion, namely that this VVDer is going to stand pontifically in front of his minister and is now defending the policy of the cabinet. However, I expect this fellow MP from the VVD to control the cabinet, to check that it is properly governing this country. I have great doubts as to whether that will happen in the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u47	With my fellow Members, of course, I am not trying to do anything else to question this minister and this cabinet on that point every time, especially when it comes to security. However, I do think I can say something when it is said that there are all redundancies. Then I'd like to hear from the Minister if he is. If so, I think we should have a discussion about that. I don't have that indication. I would now like to continue my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr Klaver has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u49	I just asked a question. That's what was turned around. Now, however, Mr Van Oosten says very clearly that he has no indication that people are being fired. Then where did he get that? We all want to know that, because we can only find sources that say that it does. Where did Mr Van Oosten get this indication? Please share your wisdom with us all, Mr Van Oosten!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u50	I'm looking at the numbers, aren't I? I'm looking at the perspective that seems to be being offered, aren't I? I'm referring to last Monday's papers. If you ask the VVD what it stands for, I say that we stand for keeping that basic police care in order. That's what I stand for! That's what I fight for!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr Klaver probably means the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u52	Yeah, I asked about the source. If I understand correctly, that is the article in the paper last Monday that said that there might be more money next year. Then we are talking about the year 2017, while all colleagues are talking about the amounts for 2016. Mr Van Oosten is fighting what we are all saying here, namely that the deficits in 2016, for example, mean that people must be fired or discharged. He says that's not the case, that he doesn't have an indication. Where did Mr Van Oosten get that? From what source?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u53	Apart from resources, I also make a calculation myself. We're talking about an organization in which around 60,000 agents work. We are talking about an organisation with around EUR 5 billion. We are talking about an organisation in which extra investment has also been made in recent times. If I add that to my own view of this whole issue, I will not let that happen at all. I hear questions from the Minister. Well, I'll wait for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u54	The opposition is asking questions about numbers we can check and the answer we get is about numbers we can't control. It's a newspaper report on possible investments next year. Apart from the fact that it is not an answer to the question we are asking, because it is about the budget for this year, my simple question is: is that newspaper report correct or not? If it isn't true then we need to wipe it off the table now and we can't talk about it anymore and if it is true then we need to know the figures, then we need to know much more. Then we must know as much as you know, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u55	I'm referring to newspaper articles, so I know as much as you know. You know that newspaper article, too. I'm glad I read that newspaper article. Why? Because in that I taste and recognize the intentions of many around me, within my own group, who are therefore fully committed to that security. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u56	I find this very problematic. We are talking about figures that we can calculate. We have been to the organizations and we have spoken to the top people. They say, these are the holes, these are the numbers, we have to send people away. We can check that out. Mr Van Oosten does not want it. He turns around and says, "Well, I don't know, I have my own calculations." Then we need to see those calculations. He shields with figures we can't say anything about, which we officially know nothing about and which we only know on Prince's Day. That's not a defense. That's not a decent debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u57	I do not need to go along with Mr Segers' rules for a debate. He asks me a question; I answer him. But it is always circulating the question of what effort is being made for safety in this country. That's what it's all about in the end. We share that. If we then zoom in completely on the police, then it is important that this police care stays in order. That's what I want. When I see that there is a lot of money going to the police organisation and look at the absence of illness, I think: gee, that police organisation might also be able to contribute to that. That's why I mentioned the issue of absenteeism. When I see the additional investments that have been made, I agree with Mr Segers' question to the Minister as to exactly what is happening. But I won't let that happen. That's what this is all about, isn't it? I am not gonna let it happen that police care is being stripped of, and I hope neither is Mr Segers. We're not gonna let that happen, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u58	This is almost a point of order: we must have the same figures as we are debating here. Whether Mr Van Oosten has more information and displays figures for next year. Then we must have them all. Or he doesn't have them. Then we are going to leave it out of the equation and we are going to talk about the figures for this year, which the top people say are going to be: holes are falling, things are no longer going to be this way, we must send people away and, more importantly, we have been counting on the promises made by the cabinet this autumn and which it has not complied with. That should concern the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u59	I would just like to look at the question put to me by Mr Segers. Without repeating too much; I refer to a newspaper article. Mr Segers knows that too. When he talks about the figures as projected in the spring note, he knows them. I know him, too. Mr Segers says that as a result there is not enough money for the police. I say to that: I will not let it happen that there is not enough money for the police. Maybe that's where we're different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u60	First, I would like to make a comment about absenteeism. The same applies; I hope that Mr Van Oosten will check with the police. Now he's saying something like, "The police have to do something about that absenteeism." But if he makes the same visits as me and talks, then he knows that the cause of that absenteeism is the overstress of many policemen: PTSS (posttraumatic stress disorder), the greater pressure, more violence, a lot of overtime... Now Mr Van Oosten nods yes, but he just said: it's the police. That little ball to the police organization just doesn't bounce. I'll come back to the chief of police who indicated that there's 300 million too little. I am going to ask one question, and that is an attempt to make something concrete. Today, it says in the paper that there's an extra deficit in the Justice Department. Those are figures, I say quite honestly, which are not surprising at all, because the services have been saying that there is a problem if there is no solution. Does Mr Van Oosten think that it is acceptable, if these figures are correct, that there should be a reduction in police, NFI and counter-terrorism again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u61	You're talking about that article in De Telegraaf about the 53 million or what was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u62	I'm talking about that article in De Telegraaf this morning, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u63	I would actually like to make a very different comment on that question, in response to that question. I think you should eventually grow into a system where you don't let the ministry that's watching over our security depend on the proceeds of fines. Last year I argued in favour of this in the budgetary procedure. I'd really like you to shape that whole system in a different way, but I didn't arrange that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u64	I'm incredibly pro-growing. The more we grow into a better system, the better, but that was not my question. My question was this. This morning there was a figure in the newspaper that was not a surprise in itself but very serious. And I do not want to "growing up"; I want to know if Mr Van Oosten thinks it is justified to cut back on those services in 2016, which is now threatening to happen again. He can say: yes, I think that is justified. Then we'll leave it that way. Or he could say, "No, I don't think it's justified." Then we, not you as the Minister's squire, but together as the Chamber, are trying to call on the Minister to close that hole this year, because security concerns us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u65	That security concerns all of us, I can give you a hand in that, Mr Buma, because that is what I think. Whether that should have the effect that the EUR 53 million has to be processed... It will have to be, because that hole seems to be there when I understand that article. By the way, if I may make a suggestion: I have a solution. I have a solution for that amount. If you call on your group in the First Chamber to vote in favour of the law against which you have been against in the Second Chamber, you will be given a second chance to charge the criminal proceedings costs to those who have caused them, then you will create around the same amount. I believe 47 million euros or something. Why don't you? Then you'll help me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u66	Oh, it's good. Mr Van Oosten now refers to the First Chamber because we have rejected a proposal which he himself knows will never come and it is simply impossible. We really don't do that. The fact is that, apart from that, that money was already covered and so it is regularly a new problem has arisen. Mr Van Oosten accepts that an additional 53 million will probably be cut this year on the police. That's the conclusion of his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr Buma has, in part, the solution if that should be the conclusion. He thus deprives the taxpayer of the opportunity to recover a little bit of that money, with which convicted criminals have put society at a cost. I don't think it's wrong to do that at all. That challenge lies with Mr Buma's party and not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u68	I believe that Mr Van Oosten is completely neglecting his control role as a representative of the people. He asks questions to the minister in the name of: Minister, are the police okay? Then the Minister will say: yes, the police are fine. And then Mr Van Oosten says: fine, then we can go home, because the Minister himself said that things were going well. The figures from De Telegraaf do not recognise Mr Van Oosten, because he is posting a 'you-bowl' in the direction of Mr Buma. About the layoffs, he says there's really nothing going on, because he doesn't have any figures to show that. How is this possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u69	I don't want to repeat too much, but I have to because you're asking the same question again. I'm just not gonna let that happen. That's the bottom line. The VVD doesn't let it happen that the police are failing in quality. We're not gonna let that happen, are we? That's what this is about. That's what I try to say here every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u70	Then do something about it, as I say to Mr Van Oosten. The police are 2,000 fte down on it. We all know that; independent reports show that. Let me give Mr Van Oosten a hand. I have answers to parliamentary questions here in the 2015 Accountability debate. The answer to question 81 shows that 100 FTE goes off at the Public Prosecutor's Office in a short period of two years. The answer to question 82 shows that people have to leave the NFI. The Minister confirmed that this afternoon, and Mr Van Oosten was there. The budget of the NFI is declining; more than 10% of the budget is falling. Mr Van Oosten says: I do not know these figures. And: I'll ask the Minister how he's doing, won't I? I am confronting Mr Van Oosten with the figures. I can't imagine that he didn't read the documents, so he knows that people are going out, whether they're being forced to leave, or they're leaving because of work-to-work policies or course of course. Those people are getting out, and Mr Van Oosten knows that very well, but he simply denies it here. I find that really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u71	I only want to serve one purpose here. I'm trying to contribute my stone to the full commitment that should be focused on that safety. You may think that is a platitude, a repetition, but that is how it is. That means you need a police organization that needs to be in order. So that doesn't mean you're gonna have to pick the cops off the street. I certainly don't want to do that either. That means you have a D.A. that needs to be in order and streamlined and works with the police. That means you have to have high-quality judges, which means you have to have prisons. That's what I fight for every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u72	Lots of words, no deeds. This is really no different from the word 'ostrich policy': the head in the sand for the consequences of the VVD's cuts on security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u73	I stand here as group chairman with many colleagues, because we think this is important, against a, at least I hope, seasoned judicial and police spokesperson of the VVD, who does not know the numbers. He refers to the minister over and over again. Let me give it a try, because it's such a ball-ball thing and before you know it, that whole budget string tape is. Let me zoom in on the fines. In the spring note we see a setback in the fines. Does the VVD exclude that this minister will increase the fines in the next six months or that more fines will be issued to close these gaps in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u74	I would not like the fines to be increased further. I have just made a very concrete proposal, for which I have already asked for attention during the last budget debate. That's what I'm gonna keep doing. I think you should get rid of that whole system. I think you should go to a system where the proceeds of fines from another ministry countries, just in the state treasury, so that you can have a discussion at the Ministry of V and J about the justice of the fine. You have to ask yourself whether you want to impose a fine and so on, without making a ministry that has to guarantee security and the rule of law dependent on its proceeds. Doesn't that make anyone happy? Well, that's what it turns out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u75	Six years the VVD delivers the Prime Minister. For six years, the VVD provides the Minister of Security and Justice. Now I hear from my question: yes, I would like a new system of fines in the future. You've had time for that! I am now asking a very specific question. There's a deficit of about 40 million in fines. Does the VVD exclude that in the next six months the fines will be increased or that additional fines will have to be issued to close the holes of Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u76	I have little ambition to raise fines, if you ask me so specifically. Should there be more fines? Fines must be written out when people don't follow the rules. Yeah, I can't be clearer. Mr President, if I may, I would like to move slowly but surely on to the rest of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u77	I understand you want to leave, yes! No, I want an answer to my question. There's a 40 million deficit on the fines. 14 million is covered by the pencils and pens fund, and the Minister is going to take the old bottles to the glass bowl again, and that might yield some deposit money. That leaves 26 million. Is that money from increasing fines, yes or no? Or is that, as happened at the beginning of this year, from increasing the administrative deficit by €2 and increasing the fines by 1% anyway? Or do we get the coupon quotas back? I can't ask you any clearer than this. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u78	I give you my full ambition not to go there, but I also say to you, Mr Pechtold, and also to Mr Buma, that you also have a key on this point. They are the same amounts every now and then. You have chosen to say in this Chamber, for reasons of principle, state law, or I know what else: no, I do not really think it is important to let those criminals themselves pay for the criminal proceedings. That is actually exactly the same as the example you give yourself of the administrative burden you get at the CJIB. Well, why don't you put that down to the criminals? Then we'll solve the financial problem you're sketching out right away, because I'll share it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u79	Then in this country we're going to sign the cyclist and the one who crosses. You pay €170 fine if you forget to pull up on the green light. Yeah, you'll pay for that, Mr. Chairman. You just pay €27 and then still €9 administration costs far above the cost price if you drive 2, 3 kilometers per hour too fast. That's all that VVD campaign point. I'm gonna try it for the fourth time. There are people listening who think: yes, I've been flashed on that A2 so many times; the VVD allows you to drive faster, but then you get that fine again. Will the deficits in V and J à raison of 26 million be covered by higher fines or more fines? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u80	First of all, I have some difficulty with the fact that Mr Pechtold's question actually makes the following conclusion: well, you know what, 130 kilometers per hour is the speed you are allowed to drive and if you drive a little faster, too bad, then you pay a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u81	That wasn't the question, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u82	No, but you are also leading your question for quite some time, and I am doing the same with my answer. What I want to say, and I am doing that no different than I have just done, is that I have no ambition whatsoever to increase those fines. No ambition at all! But you also have a key, because there is a problem. That hole is right there. You determined that with me. If you were to help in the First Chamber to do what we have done for fines for many years, namely that piece of administrative tax, also with criminals. People who simply deliberately violate the penal law in this country are there, aren't we? Then we made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u83	You may make one last attempt, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u84	Last try: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u85	You do it with the answer I just gave you, because you can help solve the problem yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u86	The VVD does not exclude that in the next six months the fines in this country will rise or coupon quotas will return to cover the problems with V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u87	I suggest you continue, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u88	Yes, Mr President, because I think I have said enough on this point. If Mr Pechtold wishes to conduct the discussion along that road, it is up to Mr Pechtold. But I do have another comment in the direction of Mr Pechtold. That's my contribution; I'm trying to make a little bridge there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u89	That's what you're using Mr. Pechtold for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u90	The debate is called "investment in the security chain." We've been talking about investments all along, but when you're talking about the security chain, you can't do it with investments alone. It is also about creating powers. Then I also have other, very serious concerns. We must give our police and our Public Prosecutor the powers to do their job properly. These powers are about cybercrime, the crime of the future. There is a proposal on the shelf that should be adopted in this Chamber in order to infiltrate the darknet of the Internet. Those are really nasty pits, where weapons are traded, where drugs are traded and where children may be traded. And what do I see when I take up the report, with the questions that have been asked so far by MPs from D66 and by the way also from the SP? That people are concerned about privacy and whether fundamental rights are sufficiently guaranteed. I have only one answer to that: as far as the VVD is concerned, this is not at all the case with criminals of this kind. We need to create powers for our organisations, that is police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to deal with this. I'm closing up. There is no such thing as 100% safety. So let us stop awakening the illusion that this can be done, as if we could guarantee security if there is enough money. We are doing what we can with the resources and powers we have at our disposal. I call on all colleagues to work together. Please, let us move together instead of standing up against each other and suggesting that security for this coalition, for the VVD and, I hope, for the PvdA, would not be of the utmost importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u91	I have one question. Something must be done about the powers of the police on the Internet, but I hope that the VVD does not say: leave fundamental rights and the rule of law, because these powers must come at all costs. I believe that the VVD also believes that this should be done within the limits of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u92	The borders of the rule of law are constantly guarding the VVD. There is no other way, as these are confirmed in our Constitution. However, I also hear the appeal of the Public Prosecutor's Office, even today in a press release: please Lower House and Upper House, make sure that we get that power, make sure that we can infiltrate those criminals who may still be out there, but will soon be on the Internet, on the digital web. Let us ensure that they are given those powers and that we can actually take up the creeps who are involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr. Chairman. The justice chain is cracking. That has been clear for a number of years. Reductions and reorganisations require a lot of the organisations in the Justice Department. These concerns have been explicitly addressed in the examination of the 2016 budget. At that time, the Chamber, including my group, adopted three motions for resolutions. These motions laid down conditions for the 2016 budget. They had to be solved by the spring note. Firstly, the police must be given sufficient resources, as stated in the amended Kooiman c.s motion. (34300-VI, No. 69). Secondly, sufficient resources must be made available to the public prosecutor in view of the new tasks for this organisation. It's in the Pechtold c.s. motion. (34300-VI, No. Thirdly, there must be sufficient resources to keep six courts fully open, according to the Oskam c.s motion. (34300-VI, No. 34). What happened next? I'll start with the police. In the spring note, 188 million go to the police. This can cover the collective agreement. In addition, it can cover the costs of higher asylum entry and the short-term impact on staff and ICT. That should be enough for 2016. But if that's unexpectedly not enough, then what? Is there a buffer? Is there a structural solution to the problems the police have to deal with? That's a rhetorical question, because my answer is no. But the spring note is not for structural adjustments, but for occasional adjustment if necessary. That's what happened. The six dishes are also open and remain open in 2016. There is therefore no need for adaptation in 2016. I would also point out that this does not remove the structural problems of housing and the financing of justice. The same applies to the Public Prosecutor's Office, but more on this later. Still, I'm stuck with questions about 2016. What about earlier announcements by some judges, prosecutors and police officers that things are not going well in 2016 and that people should now be out who may need to be re-assigned later? By the way, I do not know any official sources for this, but I do hear this, because I also go to work. What about today's message from De Telegraaf that the extra money is almost gone again, because the police have to cope with penalties? How was the Chamber informed about this? RTL today managed to produce a list of the Ministry with a deficit per chain partner for 2016. How are we supposed to explain that? Now I come to the structural solutions. As has already been said, it is right that the cabinet should not come up with this now. However, I do expect these to be presented on Prince's Day. Because it's necessary. The Public Prosecutor's Office rightly complains that it cannot continue to regulate the case with incidental funding, that tagged funds are in the way of business operations and that additional setbacks cannot be borne. The prosecution is also right to point out that a chain is as strong as the weakest link. Investment in the police has a direct impact on the workload of the D.A. That has to be taken into account. What's the status of putting the criminal justice chain in order? Then I'll get to the fines. If you raise the speed limit...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u94	We will soon be able to deal with the fines with the Minister. I think the general picture of this ministry is more important. In 2012 Recourt spokesperson on behalf of the PvdA said that he was worried and that things had to be different. Today, four years later, the same spokesperson says that he cannot fully assess whether what the opposition indicates is true. When this budget was adopted, the PvdA also said that there was a problem. Now that all these motions have been adopted here and on the other side, in the First Chamber, I ask Mr Recourt whether the PvdA believes that these motions should also be carried out. Those motions were about the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u95	Across the street, across the street. The motions that have been passed here, I have in front of me. I've looked at them and I think they've been executed. I agree with Mr Pechtold that this has not solved the problem in a structural manner, but these motions have been carried out on an occasional basis. Mr Pechtold's motion states: "The government requests that sufficient resources be made available in the 2016 Spring Note to ensure these additional tasks and to inform the Chamber separately'. That motion is about the state's attorney's office. The Public Prosecutor's Office has received three, four different jars, labeled for work associated with them, including for the Hoekstra Committee. The Public Prosecutor's Office then says: 'Thank you for getting that, but this is not a good way to organise things; we need structural funding for that.' Mr Pechtold's motion for a resolution has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u96	It's not true. This year, the Public Prosecutor's Office has a deficit of 15 million, supplemented by own funds, a 2 million hole in investment that should be part of the budget this year. Then I zoom in on one part of the problem. The counter's at 17 million. Mr Beuving, senator of the PvdA, even said in the Senate that the motions should be carried out here; motions that are very clear. Mr Recourt is challenging me to go into one section, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I am already shooting a 17 million hole in his story. What's his reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u97	Ms Beuving, PvdA senator in the First Chamber, will debate with the Minister in the First Chamber. It's not about our motions. The Public Prosecutor's Office has hired De Galan Group for the Galan II investigation report. That's critical. Then another research hit was done by De Jong. It has been concluded that the quality offered can be achieved, provided that the extra funds from 2020 are pumped back into the years 2016 and beyond. If external validation says so and if the public prosecutor himself also says that the water is up to his neck and that structural funding is needed, then you have to take it seriously. But they don't say: we're sinking through the ice in 2016. That is what Mr Pechtold and his colleagues are suggesting. I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u98	Isn't it absurd that a four-year coalition should get money from 2020 to cover the problems in 2016? Surely it is absurd for a four-year coalition to make promises after the 2017 elections, when we do not know what our economy is like in Europe. There will be a referendum in England in a few days. Everyone has to believe that the money will be there. Mr Recourt himself comes from that sector. We're talking about the state's attorney's office; that's what he wants. You'll just be a state's attorney with qualities, with ambition, and see that your organization doesn't perform, that things remain on the shelf, that there's a threat of shortages, that there'll be a build-in on the equity to keep the case in the running. Then you're gonna apply for a job, aren't you? Then you're not gonna wait for your resignation, are you? That means the same thing. It's a repeat of what we saw at the AIVD. The people with quality, with a labour market perspective, are applying away, because this minister, because your coalition simply needs to be driven out year after year by the opposition to get money to put things in order. Then we're not even talking about the new ambition. Then we're just talking about cheese holes. We are asking for opposition from all sides and I think that Mr Recourt de VVD can help us to discuss together with Minister Dijsselbloem for about 200 million and if you do it very sharply 150 million, now just not an entire evening, but to see if there is a healthy coverage. Or even... there was money shortage. Well, that $200 million, I'll let it go. Are you prepared to just get together, to take care of that police officer, to take care of that prosecutor, to follow up on the feeling that we have to do something now, and not just the feeling that we have to do it until next year after the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u99	We differ on the facts. I know the D.A.'s under pressure, but it's not like officers are doing a massive job interview. This has not happened massively with the AIVD either. We have already had that debate about four times. There's got to be money. That's what I'm saying. I don't know if that's gonna happen on Prince's Day. I hope so; I've read the papers as well, but I don't know. I didn't talk about that either. I said that we need structural money. The question is whether organisations will sink through the ice in 2016. The answer is no. I have not been able to see that. I do have questions, and I asked them to the Minister. I haven't read anything about getting people out of the cops. So I'm not asking. I'm sure I'll be asked, because I can't ask on this side. I read that the reorganisation is incredibly difficult. Those are two different things. I do not recognize the image that the opposition calls for it to cease in 2016. That image doesn't come back in the numbers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u100	On that last point, I know Mr Recourt as a regular visitor. That is why I cannot make that point at all. Now let's get back to the facts. At the end of November we received a letter from the Minister announcing extra money for the budget. That happened before we had a very serious discussion here about the budget of Security and Justice. We found unanimously that it was not enough and that it could not be done, but it was all complicated. At that time, motions were tabled, which Mr Recourt has just mentioned. Today we are talking about the Spring Note and Mr Recourt says that the motions have been carried out. I really don't believe what I'm hearing, because those motions haven't been carried out. In November we deliberately tabled motions, but in the spring note there is really nothing to add. Take the D.A.'s office. How can Mr Recourt say that the motion by Mr Pechtold and others has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u101	I have had a debate with Mr Pechtold about the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van Nispen's group has tabled a motion on the police. That's $49 million. I also read reports about the police and hear what's being said. The police themselves mention 300 million and the works council and trade unions an even higher amount; I want to get rid of that. But that's not about 2016: but a bit is about 2016. The Kooiman c.s. motion. is about 2016. For this, money has been raised, namely 49 million. I say that structural money must be added at the time when you must do so in the tradition of the Dutch Parliament, namely on Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr Recourt also knows very well that this 49 million has been labelled, because it has to do with the reception of refugees. The report initiated by the Ministry itself shows that structural money is needed. Mr Recourt can now say that we cannot solve the issue of the Spring Paper, but he should not have supported that motion either, because it literally stated that sufficient resources should be made available in the Spring Paper. Does Mr Recourt agree with his party colleague, Minister of Finance Dijsselbloem, who says that we are a little done with the opposition's begging about police and justice? I'm curious about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u103	No. I'm a justice spokesperson. Once again, I join these organizations and see how they are financially mangled for years. I have also been advocating structuralally more money for years. So you do not hear me say that these organizations should not complain. I see these people working way too hard for that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u104	It is good to hear that Mr Recourt distanced himself from that, but I insist that it is your controlling task to do something about it if you support motions here and they are not being carried out. You should then call the Minister to account and not wait for a newspaper report showing that there may be extra money on Princess' Day. For Mr Pechtold is right: what we are about to have to recover is being destroyed. Mr Recourt cannot allow that to happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u105	So we differ on that, because I have just explained why I think those motions have been carried out. We agree that it is very difficult. The suggestion that we are now destroying what we need to recover in the future, I do not recognize. Again, I don't recognize the need to get people out. I don't hear that. I'd love to hear it, but I don't know where.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u106	One of those motions was about justice. We have spoken with the Council of Justice. It says, if we don't get anything, we're going down 30 million; we have 15 million own funds, so we have a negative equity of 15 million. Mr Recourt just said: I sometimes go to work and don't know the story. Has he heard a story other than the one we've been told?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u107	When we talk about justice, I should like to start by referring to that motion. It's about the dishes. That's not gonna happen in 2016. I know that the courts are in agreement on financing, because although there are fewer cases before the courts, I think they are right to say that things are much more complex, so they want to talk again about financing. That's the PxQ discussion. It's taking place right now. For 2016, I see no problem on this issue. I do see a problem in the long term, because own funds are indeed pretty much exhausted and we still need to get money for the Oskam motion on those six courts. I fully agree with Mr Segers. But the question is whether the motion has not been carried out. I can't conclude that; it's just not that it hasn't been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u108	That wasn't my question. My question was as follows. We are told the story: we are going into the ship for 13 million, and that amounts to a negative equity of 15 million. That is the result of this year's policy. I can tell Mr Recourt that there was also a slight lack of parliamentary and diplomatic language, because promises have been made. Those people are very disappointed. What story should Mr Recourt hear in order to be convinced of the need to make additional money now, including in the case-law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u109	Once again, I believe that price agreements are currently being negotiated. Once you've been negotiated, you'll know if it's worked out or if there's a shortage left. In fact, once you've been negotiated, you've both added some water to the wine and you're satisfied. As in collective bargaining, things can go wrong. That is what we hear, but not now, not when negotiations are under way. That would be a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u110	One last attempt: should the Council write a letter to Mr Recourt before the Court of Justice, should the Council write a newspaper article, should the Council come to the journal, should the Council tell the story that he has told us and that he would like to tell every political group, in public, before Mr Recourt is convinced of the need for extra money? What action should the Council take to convince Mr Recourt of the need to make extra money available in the case-law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u111	I have said a number of times that I share the view that there should be structural money, but it is about 2016. I have not heard that from the Council of Justice. Why not? Because the price agreements are being negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u112	I have a question about what was in the newspaper today, namely that additional deficits are threatening. Does Mr Recourt consider it acceptable that the police, the judiciary and the NFI should bear these deficits themselves in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u113	That could be acceptable. We have already talked about equity. That's there to catch occasional setbacks and buffer a little bit. This applies not only to the judiciary, but also to the state. I imagine that's what you're doing. Structurally, I do have a problem with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u114	You too are going on work visits, so you should also know that own funds are already being called under the acceptable limit for the deficit that is already there. There's a big part of it. I do not understand that Mr Recourt has great stories about the unacceptableness of the money and the border we are on, and then he has already agreed to an additional EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u115	I am familiar with the debate on own funds in the courts. That debate is real, because the courts are sinking. I don't know that kind of discussion about the police and the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u116	A single visit would help. Mr Recourt is now saying that the courts are failing, but I still wonder how you can refer to 2017. Every time it is said that there is no money, but Mr Recourt also knows that, with all the pressure there is, justice has raised a huge amount of settlement over the past year. Surely it is to be expected that the Minister responsible negotiates in such a way that in this particular year, with all these problems, money does not go to the big pot of Minister Dijsselbloem, but stays in the justice chain? Is Mr Recourt prepared to argue with the CDA that this money will remain in the justice chain alone for this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u117	Last September's budget debate turned that around. It always went straight to the Justice budget, but in order to make the money structural, not to occasionally book those fines but simply to cover 100 million in structural terms, Finance said: okay, we guarantee 100 million; if you get less, we plus you, you get more, it goes into our pocket. The moment you let that go, you're structurally losing $100 million, for example to cover the police. I'm afraid that's just a breach of accounting agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u118	You should never even start solving a real problem in the justice chain for accounting reasons. What is going on this year is that some 350 million has been raised with some settlements, of which 100 million are allowed to remain in the chain with the pardon of Minister Dijsselbloem. But it is one year and 258 million or at least part of it. Surely it is a perfectly normal question for a Member of Parliament, who does not speak on behalf of the Minister, but speaks for himself and sees the major problems, to let most of that money flow into the justice chain for this one year? I really don't understand why that wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u119	Because next year, maybe only 50 million will be taken away. Then that deal is gone and a 50 million hole falls, which must then be covered by the budget of the police, the prosecutor and the judiciary. I must say that we all benefit from this, only through the general and not through the specific pot. This year would be an advantage, but next year could be a disadvantage. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the fines. If you increase the speed limit to 130, it makes sense that you have less fine revenue. Add to this the success of the route checks. People have the puzzles along the road about how fast you can drive by now. In the coming years, therefore, there will be a structural reduction in income. How is this covered? Do we do this by oiling foreseeable deficits over the chain every year? I don't think that's a good idea. The rack's out in the justice department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u120	Did Mr Recourt say about the route checks 'they have now understood how fast you are allowed to drive and therefore the penalties go down'? In other words, we have made it so complicated as a cabinet with that 130 km/h driving and every time we switch on purpose that we would get a lot of fines. Could Mr Recourt read his text literally again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u121	I read the text, like it says here. Mr Pechtold's conclusion is just not correct. Those signs were an incredible puzzle, at least for me because I do not know how Mr Pechtold went.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u122	It cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u123	Exactly. Mr. Pechtold said it already: on the A2 you were allowed another 120 km/h on a piece in the evening but not on the piece afterwards. The reason for this is not bullying citizens, but noise standards, environmental standards and that kind of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u124	So I misunderstood you when you said "travel checks, they're on to it by now." You said that in the context of the falling number of fines, but it was not your intention to impose a fine on people because they didn't realize how hard they were supposed to be. But it was a good time; that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u125	I shall leave this to Mr Pechtold. Of course not, of course not. Mr. Chairman. I'm ready for my conclusion. The spring note is a relief, but the sick person is only really recovered when structural funds are allocated to the Justice Department, and then it will always be more. Let the money come first with a chain-wide vision on how to put it optimally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u126	Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my group chairman, Mr Roemer, who cannot be present because of circumstances. This cabinet asked for our support, for our confidence that it would work out with the Justice budget, that the gaps would be closed and that extra money would come for the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. On the condition that extra money would be provided, the opposition voted in favour of the Justice budget, at least a large part of the opposition. But the extra money didn't come; at least there wasn't enough money. Our trust is embarrassed. The VVDs who stormed the Ministry of Security and Justice with a lot of bombs leave it destitute and in chaos. Directors have quit, receipts have been lost and at no time have the VVD's bad guys made sure that there was enough budget to catch and prosecute criminals consistently and securely. The police are heading for bankruptcy and have already had to send staff away. At the Dutch Forensic Institute we see the same thing happening as before at the AIVD: knowledge and skills disappear under pressure from the cuts. The expertise is leaving now and they must hope that more money will be available. In the case-law, the files are piling up. Own funds have been eroded in recent years. The critical limit has been reached. The Minister has not complied with the agreements on funding for years. What does the Minister think this does with confidence, in his person and in the quality of justice? This cabinet has struck huge financial craters in the budgets of services that guard our security, but that does not seem to matter to the cabinet. Perhaps the most shocking thing is the response of the Minister of Finance. He says he's a little done talking about the deficits in the Justice Department. I'll tell you what we're done with. That is with the arrogance of this finance minister, who has money for tax cuts for the highest incomes, but not for police officers, who will see 2,000 colleagues leave in the coming period. We are a little done with this cabinet, which has a very big mouth about security, but which in the meantime shuts down police stations and drives neighborhood agents out of the neighborhood. Why didn't the Minister do better to undo the cuts? Why hasn't he gotten any tougher? Why doesn't he say: choose someone else to do this, this goes too far for me? Why does he react like a sheep when Minister Dijsselbloem dismisses all employees of Security and Justice as beggars? Has this minister not once stood up for his staff, for the rule of law, for a safe Netherlands and its inhabitants? Not once? This week the cabinet tried to make good decoration with extra money for Security and Justice. There may be extra money, but not this year, but only next year. It's too late. At the Dutch Forensic Institute she is now on the lips, and the entire criminal justice chain suffers from this. The State's Attorney's office has already cut 100 million euros in recent years. The critical limit of what was justified has long and wide been exceeded, and it is getting worse there. The promised money has not come, even more so, new money goes off. New discounts threaten the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, according to De Telegraaf this morning. So it all gets worse. How is this possible? Why didn't the Minister report this to the Chamber? Why doesn't the Minister care about all those people who warn about these huge deficits? How can you deal with your organizations like that? Safety in the Netherlands does not lend itself to campaign games of the VVD. You cannot keep employees in uncertainty for three years to try to make good decoration at the end of the cabinet period. We can make it all very complicated, but it is actually very simple. There are three motions that have been passed. These must be carried out. There's really not a word of Spanish in there. So we can be ready soon this evening, although it has been quite a while now. How is the Minister going to close the gaps that are still there? This is the time to make enough money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u127	Mr. Chairman. Safety belongs to all of us. Today there should be no debate between the left and the right or between opposition and coalition. Promoting security is a core task of the government. That's one. Secondly, just as important, today is about the reliability of the government. That is why I would like to answer the questions concerning security policy continuity. The General Court warns about financial yojo policy. If too hard and too fast cuts are made, human capital disappears and knowledge is lost. Then extra money has to be added to close the gaps. My concern is that this jojoen is at the expense of the core tasks of the Ministry of Security and Justice, namely the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Politics is widely shared, especially after the harsh criticism of the Court of Auditors, that extra money is needed if we are to guarantee a well-functioning police service and an accessible judicial system. This debate is not, as the VVD would like, about the apparently extra promised funds for 2017. We will have that debate in the autumn. This debate is about closing the gaps in the 2016 budget, the current budget. I have a number of specific questions about this. Is it true that there is a shortage of personnel and equipment in the police? Does this mean that vacancies remain unfulfilled? Could it also mean that people have to be fired? Can the Minister guarantee the continuity of the police organisation? Or does he take for granted that charges remain on the shelf and convicted remain at large because there is no one to arrest them? Is the neighborhood-oriented approach threatened by capacity problems? I would like answers to these questions, because they touch on the citizens' sense of security. I'm here to talk about the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Is it true that earlier cuts have been offset by the equity of the organisations and that they are now in financial difficulties? Is the continuity of the work of the D.A. and the judiciary in danger? If that is the case, what priorities will be removed? Is it possible that serious criminal proceedings will become more appropriate outside the courts? Are lawsuits gonna take longer? Can statements wait longer? Doesn't justice fall to a critical minimum? That would affect the citizens' sense of justice. I'd like to get a response. A lot of questions have already been asked by colleagues, so I will move on quickly to the end of my speech. Don't close the gaps now while there'll be money next year, it's not good governance. Then the reliability of the government is at stake. My group therefore believes that gaps should be closed before 2016. Next year, Security and Justice will receive a 300 million-dollar rescue buoy. But if we don't do something now, it's gonna keep treading water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. The safety of the Netherlands is under enormous pressure. The increasing Islamization, the threat of terror, the policy of open borders, the asylum system and the looking away of the cabinet on all these issues have only made the Netherlands more unsafe. My group therefore voted against the budget of justice last year, both here and in the Upper House. We did not believe the promise of Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Van der Steur that the money would come around the Spring Note. After all, this Prime Minister's track record consists of breaking promises and lying to the people, not keeping promises. Many other parties, like the PVV, who wanted extra money for security, believed the cabinet and even helped the justice budget to a majority in the Senate. They're coming true now. The cabinet comes with a handout, an extra 49 million for the police. It is a mistake, not so much for us here in the House of Representatives but above all for safety in our country, for our citizens and not to forget for the heroes who are working every day for safety in the Netherlands with far too little resources and colleagues. Of course, I'm talking about the people of the national police. You will only want to be a good policeman in the Netherlands and do what you want to do for your country. You're getting a big middle finger from this cabinet. "Do not complain," says Minister Dijsselbloem, "just tackle the problems rather than just in the newspaper asking for money. It is not that we call you to turn." What arrogance, what contempt of this PvdA minister for the police. But when the Greeks knock, Minister Dijsselbloem turns his grey plate again and again. And if money has to go to the asylum seekers, the cabinet will, of course, give at home. In an interrupting debate, I have just said that almost 2 billion extra, 1.8 billion, goes to the entire asylum-seekers and aliens chain in this Spring Note. In 2016 these are the priorities of the VVD, not a party for security, but the party for asylum seekers. Of course, it's very different when you're called Erdogan, because you don't get 49 million euros, but almost 100 million euros from the Netherlands. And if you lie under the sun in Africa, then millions of Dutch taxpayers' money will come your way. But our cops are gonna get their asses kicked. Meanwhile, it's getting more unsafe all over the West. Last Sunday, the horrible attack took place in Orlando. 49 innocent people were killed by an Allahoe akbar screaming Muslim terrorist. That is a sign on the wall, because the hatred for homosexuals, women, Jews and non-Muslims also lives here in Europe, in our own Netherlands and, in fact, wherever Islam has gotten grounded. The day before yesterday, a police commissioner was stabbed to death in Paris with nine knife marks. His wife, also a cop, was slit his throat. They were brutally murdered by a convicted jihadist who was released after his prison sentence instead of expelled from the country. Once again, the famous battle cry of so many murdering Muslim terrorists, Allahoe akbar, was shouted out. That affects safety, because this also plays in the Netherlands. We have seen it before in Amsterdam, Paris, Brussels, London, Madrid and Copenhagen. Where didn't we see it? The suicide bomber who killed innocent people in Zaventem last March was still in the Netherlands last year undisturbed. There was even an ISIS cell in Nijmegen recently. Let me be crystal clear: every dime and every extra penny for security is welcome. We therefore supported the three motions for resolutions tabled last year calling for additional money in the Spring paper. Every dime is welcome. But I would add that only extra money will not help as long as the cabinet refuses to recognise and address the main cause of, at least, the increasing insecurity. This, of course, is the cause of Islam, the ideology of hatred and violence. I will never understand why this cabinet does not choose the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, as a Dutchman, you get nothing just like that. But if you're a Ukrainian, you might get a visa soon. If you are an asylum seeker, if you live in the right municipality, you may get €10,000 to set up your house. If you're a dictator from Africa, there's gonna be millions of dollars worth of development aid. If you are a member of this cabinet and of the Labour Party, you can just become a European Commissioner with a monthly salary that ten welfare mothers have to live on. But if you're an ordinary Dutchman, you get nothing at all. The Dutchman gets a cabinet that makes our country more and more unsafe and that, as I have just said, spends EUR 49 million extra on the police, while it spends EUR 1.8 billion on the entire foreign chain. I repeat: 49 million for security, but 1.8 billion for the foreign chain! What kind of madness is that? The Netherlands deserves better, much better. Fortunately, in less than a year's time, we will be able to go to the ballot box.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u129	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I note that there is a need for a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u130	I wonder if a half-hour suspension is really necessary. I do not know who this request is from, but I do not suppose the Minister, because he is well into the matter and will therefore need 15 minutes or 20 minutes. I mean, seriously. We also started 45 minutes later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u131	The Minister states that he has enough to suspend for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman. Since my arrival more than a year ago, we have discussed my budget several times. The Chamber and all the spokesmen have repeatedly expressed their concerns, in particular on the budgets of the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The need to provide sufficient financial space for these organisations is the day job I am working on. This therefore has my full attention. This is what the more than 100,000 people who work day in and day out for the safety of the Netherlands under my responsibility deserve. This, of course, also deserves to be done by society. In recent years, we have achieved success in several areas. The number of home invasions is falling. The number of robberies is falling, as is the number of street robberies. The decline in these so-called high-impact crimes is spectacular thanks to the integrated approach with several public and private partners. The fight against undermining crime is efficient and effective because we also act as one government together with many partners in this area. Criminal decisions are implemented more quickly and effectively, including by digitising the flow of information and improving the quality of information. Victims indicate fewer victims. Crime rates are dropping. This is also apparent from all the other figures. Before I go any further, let me tell you how I'm going to classify my speech. I will first answer a number of general questions in a brief general introduction. Then I will deal with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the national police, the judiciary and a number of other issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u133	At the beginning of his speech, the Minister stood up for his policemen and other people within his organizations, and rightly so. Minister Dijsselbloem van Financiën a while ago in the media police and OM offended by saying that he was quite finished their whining and begging. I was annoyed to death by these statements made by that arrogant Dijsselbloem, but what does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u134	Mr Bontes will understand that I choose my own words and deal with my own. It is not for me to judge colleagues' statements. Mr Bontes will understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u135	Yeah, but if it's okay, the cabinet speaks with one mouth. Did Mr Dijsselbloem speak on behalf of the Minister? And does the Minister distance himself from the words of Mr Dijsselbloem? Isn't this minister going to stand in front of his officials? Why doesn't he? Why doesn't he stand in front of the police and the people of the state's attorney's office? Why doesn't he stand up for them? These people are being dishonored by Mr Dijsselbloem. The Minister shouldn't accept that. He must distance himself from the words of Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u136	As I have just said, Minister Dijsselbloem is of course also concerned with his own comments and answers. I fully support my people. I have done so in the negotiations on the new collective agreement, and I do so every day when it is criticised by the police. I'd almost say "my policemen," but of course they're our policemen. Of course, I also represent the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, and all those people in my department who daily ensure the strengthening of our rule of law and the improvement of our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u137	These people are really offended by Dijsselbloem, who said he was tired of their begging and whining. You can't make it worse, can you? People who are on the front line day and night to catch criminals and catch terrorists are being thrown away and vilified. I would be very grateful if the Minister here in the Chamber would distance himself from the words of Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u138	I repeat, I fully support my people. I will continue to do so, and I have always done so, and Mr Bontes can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u139	Did Minister Dijsselbloem speak on behalf of the cabinet, as is customary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u140	In my opinion, Minister Dijsselbloem has indicated what he personally thinks, and I leave that phrase to him. I stand by my people, and I always will. From the day I have been appointed, it is my commitment to ensure that the problems which have arisen in my budget and which we discussed in depth last year are resolved on an occasional and structural basis. That's my bet and it's still my bet. I have, of course, heard clearly that there are criticisms. Despite these critical points, my track record has so far been that every opportunity extra money has been added for my budget. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going through with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u141	The Minister says it is a personal view of the Minister of Finance. Does this minister then share the personal view of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u142	I've just said that I fully support my people. I also fully share the concerns that exist within the organizations that I will deal with much more fully in a moment, so I see very little reason to go into Mr Dijsselbloem's comments in detail now. My position on this is clear, and I think that is also what is important in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u143	This is going to be a difficult debate if the Minister does not answer question one, which is quite an essential point. The question is whether the cabinet is a cabinet, or whether it is a couple of separate ministers with individual views. For example, the individual view of the Minister of Justice is that justice is important, and the Minister of Finance thinks that all this is nonsense. That seems to be the cabinet, and apparently this minister says that everyone has their own personal opinion. Now the Minister shakes no. Then I have another question. Has he then appealed to the Minister of Finance for his personal opinion, which he also gave out in front of the camera as a minister? Has he addressed the Finance Minister from his responsibility for these 100,000 people in the nasty treatment of these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u144	It is important to note that the Minister of Finance is the one who has made substantial investments with me and with the cabinet in all areas of my department, from asylum to national police. We can't do that without the Minister of Finance. I would say: count him on his actions and less on a view, on what he spoke of. I think that is more important for this debate than this issue, but it is up to Mr Van Haersma Buma to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mr President, I ask for your intervention. The Minister used words filled with the Acts for weeks, but the question was very simple and it was also an essential question. We did not hear Jeroen Dijsselbloem, living in the Wageningen, say anything in his hobby time, but the Minister of Finance, who said all these questions from police and justice were nonsense. That wasn't a personal opinion. That's what he said as Minister of Finance. Here is the Minister of Justice, and he can do two things: whether he acknowledges that it was the Minister of Finance who spoke on behalf of the Cabinet, or, indeed, I hope that he says that he is standing in front of his people, that he has appealed to the Minister of Finance and that we do not deal with the police and the justice system. I'd like to hear one of those, and I'd like to hear one of those... and not another one of those all around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u146	Mr Buma understands that I will repeat my position. I'm in front of the police. I'm in front of the D.A.'s office. I am aware of the concerns that exist within these organisations, and I am working with the Minister of Finance to find appropriate solutions to them. That is also what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u147	I may three times, Mr Van Nispen may three times, Mr Segers may three times, and Mr Klaver may three times. And in a moment Mr Wilders will begin as well. We want to know from the Minister whether, in the unity of the cabinet as described in Article 43 of the Constitution, he supports the statement of the Minister of Finance, that he is done with the begging of the police, the judiciary and the judiciary. Does he support that statement, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u148	I will give exactly the same answer to all the questions raised on this subject. I fully support my people. I know the concerns that exist. I will do everything I can, together with the Minister of Finance, to remove these concerns. I did that in 2016, which was already done before I joined in 2015, and I will continue to do so in the 2017 budget. Wherever those concerns are, I've had them examined and we've got results. It is my job to ensure that those concerns are taken away. I thought that was what this debate was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u149	And you acknowledge that the cabinet speaks with one voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u150	Of course, Mr. Chairman, of course. But that doesn't mean... Yes, of course, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u151	The cabinet speaks with one mouth. Thank you, Mr President, because you will get an answer. This could be a long time, Minister Van der Steur, this could be a very long time tonight, if this is the attitude towards the Chamber. You promised to solve the problems for your police officers and everyone else, which you are so proud to call numbers that don't dent in a pack of butter. Once again: is the unity of government policy that begs the police, the prosecutors and the judiciary and that you are done with that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u152	I have already said what I want to say. If it is a long debate on this subject, so be it. I would prefer to talk about the Spring note and the concerns that remain regarding the Spring note, possibly with a look at my commitment to the Millions note. But if Mr Pechtold wishes to speak about this, I will gladly do so. I repeat once again that the concerns that were and are with the national police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are the starting point of my policy. I've always said that, and I always will. I fully support these organisations and the work they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u153	Do the concerns expressed by Mr Bolhaar, Mr Bakker and Mr Akerboom deserve the qualification of "begging"? If those concerns have been expressed in the way you put them, do you think you can be done as a cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u154	I'll repeat what I say. I acknowledge the concerns, I know the concerns. I have talked to them many times about it and I will continue to do so. It is up to me to come up with a solution. I honestly thought that this debate was about this, but it is now about the words of Mr Dijsselbloem, without whose exceptional commitment and assistance, of course, we would not have been able to make additional money available for the budget of Security and Justice time and time again since my arrival.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u155	We would also like to talk to the Minister about the motions that have been adopted which are not being carried out by this Minister. This round is about that, too. It is a question of a fellow minister, the Minister for Finance, to whom this Minister for Security and Justice is perhaps under curate. Who knows? That simply says: I am done with the begging of police and justice, it is not of "you call and we turn." I'm a little done here. Let's leave it at that, otherwise I'm gonna say a lot uglier things. This minister refuses to give up on that. So he's gonna back that up. Is that true, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u156	I'll repeat what I just said. I fully support the people of both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police and the judiciary. I've had good conversations with them since the day I arrived. In good discussions with Minister Dijsselbloem, on every occasion that has occurred, I have come to a strengthening of my budget. As far as I am concerned, I am going along with Mr Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u157	I do not think it is brave of this minister that he does not dare to distance himself from these unacceptable statements by fellow Minister Dijsselbloem, which is certainly not brave. In doing so, he also insults all those people in the police and the justice system who are working day in and day out for security. Let me ask you another question. Mr Dijsselbloem said that these services should be put in order first. Could it be that he confused things, namely the chaos in the ministry with the police, the prosecution and the justice system? They've got things under control, but it's the Ministry that's not in control. Has this Minister discussed this with Minister Dijsselbloem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u158	I speak regularly with Minister Dijsselbloem. There is no other way, because together with Minister Dijsselbloem I have ensured that the last few occasions that have been there have been substantial and structural investments in my budget. I see no reason to further explain my discussions with Minister Dijsselbloem. My job is to ensure that there is sufficient money for the important work of the people for whom I stand and whom I highly value and respect. That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u159	The Minister may agree that he does not have to say anything about the talks with Minister Dijsselbloem, with his colleague, but this is very important to me. I want to know whether he has addressed this to his colleague, Mr Dijsselbloem. I would also like to know whether he has spoken with Minister Dijsselbloem about the deficits and the needs of these services and asked him how he managed to get rid of the services in this way. That's what I want to know. I would also like to know from the Minister how she has made herself felt, and I have also asked him to do so in my speech in order to ensure adequate funding for these services in his talks with Minister Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u160	It can only be that Minister Dijsselbloem and I have spoken with each other. In my 2016 budget, with the help of the Ministry of Finance, I was able to make an additional investment, a substantial structural investment, in my department. I did that again with the Spring Note. I intend to do that again with the Millions Note. Of course, we cannot talk about this, because it is only with the Millions Note that it is clear whether an amount will be available and, if so, what amount it will be. Of course, I speak with Minister Dijsselbloem on a regular basis. However, these are generally talks that I do not have to discuss with Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr Bakker, Mr Akerboom and Mr Bolhaar have expressed their needs. They have said what the problems they face. That is what they have said to us and, no doubt, to the Minister. Are the wishes they have expressed as far as the Minister is concerned legitimate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u162	I have just said that I speak with great regularity with all the organisations under my responsibility. There are more than just the justice system, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police. This includes parole, for example. The Secretary of State speaks of this, but of course it is my responsibility. With all these parties, of course, we are talking about the financial situation and whether extra money is needed. We have good discussions with all these organisations. I hope to achieve this in the near future, if this part can be completed. I thought the debate would be mainly about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u163	That's what the debate is about. I merely asked a question, and there is no answer to that: are the legitimate wishes they have expressed or was it begging? The minister says he stands before his people and he takes them seriously. It is three respectable gentlemen who have sought the meeting with us and who are undoubtedly looking for the meeting with the Minister. Has it been begging or were they legitimate wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u164	I'm not gonna let you catch me in a discussion about those words again. It's what matters to me in the end. We discussed this extensively in the 2016 budget. That's when we said there's a concern with the national police. I said if there's any concern, I want to take it away. How do I do that? I'll do that by getting an external investigation into what's needed. That's the PwC investigation. I then had a validation study carried out by Mr De Jong. The state's attorney's office had some serious concerns. This is the subject of the De Galan report, the famous De Galan II report. What did I do? I took that report, and I had De Jong do a validation on it. In doing so, I have taken the concerns very seriously. They have also been translated into the 2016 budget and Spring paper this spring. I'm doing the exact same thing with the judiciary. In doing so, the negotiations for the years 2017 and beyond are ongoing. The judiciary just filed what he thinks he should have. That's a negotiation step. I've explained that to the Chamber before. Those negotiations are now taking place in good consultation. So yes, the concerns are known. They were already known and well investigated. That's what's being looked at. In good consultation we arrive at conclusions and final solutions, together with the Minister of Finance and the rest of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u165	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u166	A promise has been made here. A promise was made last year. First of all, to us, hence the indignation of the opposition. Because that promise is broken. Through us, however, this promise has also been made to these organisations: to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to the judiciary and to the police. That promise is broken. Those people are deeply disappointed. The minister says he stands for his people. If they're put away as beggars, what does that prove? Then what does it show that he stands for his people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u167	This is demonstrated by the fact that I have very good discussions with these organisations, that these talks lead to conclusions and additional investments, and that these talks will remove the concerns of those organisations. I may not be able to do all that in one year. I don't think that's the point. Preferably, of course, but that's not always possible. We'll make sure that happens in the longer term. Good conversations are going on about that. That will also be confirmed by all those with whom Mr Segers is speaking as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u168	This minister is really becoming a caricature of himself; I am terribly sorry. Everyone is asking for this at a crucial point: unity of government policy. And all we get is an answer that he has rehearsed in advance and which the Minister understands by now that the Chamber is not satisfied with. Because what's the point? A minister from the cabinet to which this minister belongs, Minister Dijsselbloem, the Minister of Finance, has called people from his organization "beggars." Then as Minister of Justice, you can say "I stand before my people," but then I want to see actions. Then I would like to hear from this Minister: this is not a cabinet policy, it is not a cabinet policy that we find these people beggars. After all, it's not just about what you realize for them, but about how you talk about them, whether you respect them. I do not see that respect in any way in this minister's eyes. I would like to see that in order to have confidence in this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u169	Fortunately, I speak regularly with all these organisations, which I do not think are very well in agreement with Mr Klaver's conclusions on the lack of respect I would have. What I do every day from early in the morning to late in the evening together with these organizations also shows no lack of respect. There is only one thing I can tell you: the year I took office, there were concerns about the funding of these organisations. All I've done is, together with Minister Dijsselbloem and the rest of the cabinet, make every effort to take these concerns away. Each time we have extra money, we have managed to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u170	I'm looking for a little flexibility with this minister. I understand that this is prepared and that it's somewhere on a piece of paper. It may not now be whispered by someone sitting next to the Minister. It is now written down neatly, but it is that we would like to hear from the Minister that he simply does not agree with it, that his people are not beggars, but that they have legitimate wishes and that he has done everything he can to meet those wishes. But they're not beggars. Is it so hard to say that: they are not beggars? Can the Minister choose those words? He's here defending his finance minister. We're on your side, Minister. We are trying to help you to make sure that those holes are closed even faster, not your Minister of Finance at the moment. You should stand for all those people that day in, day out for you and for all of us at work. You won't. They're not beggars. Could you say that? Is that so hard? Or should I write it down somewhere and have it delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u171	I think that the word game we are doing now is very important. I don't know exactly why yet. What is particularly important to me is to establish what the facts are. The facts are that, together with these organizations, recognizing their concerns, I have put everything on top of everything, on every occasion, to get extra money for it. I will be happy to go into detail in a moment on how that works. I think that's enough for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u172	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u173	Let me say something final. If you dismiss all the questions of all the colleagues here as a game of words, then you have no idea!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u174	I believe that Chamberwide is rightly being made the point that we can address the government to what is being said, regardless of the minister. Those aren't personal opinions. That is what the Minister of Finance has put forward here. In my view, the right question is: can the government not state that the word 'begging' is not the issue here, that it is a legitimate discussion of actual pain points and that it is not appropriate to put people here as caterpillars-never-satisfied, while in fact it is a question of resolving serious bottlenecks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u175	That's exactly the point I'm making. I recognize the bottlenecks. I can't do that either, because I've done that since the day I joined. My job is to make sure I fix it. I do this together with Minister Dijsselbloem, together with the cabinet. I believe that this shows that we take the concerns very seriously. That should be enough for this debate. I would also like to address these concerns, but I acknowledge Mr Van der Staaij's point and I think my reaction shows how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u176	It's not just about how the minister is in it, it's about how the cabinet is in it. If these are statements made by the cabinet, whether it is unclear or misunderstood, then it is appropriate to say in a debate like this on behalf of the cabinet: of course the word 'begging' is not mentioned here. It gives an atmosphere and a mood that doesn't fit here. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u177	I am always inclined to agree with Mr Van der Staaij, given his undisputed parliamentary influence, knowledge and skill, but I think this is really about how I am in this case, in my treatment as a minister. I didn't put that word in my mouth. I wouldn't. That's not up to me. It wouldn't be a word I use. I would simply like to go into the content with the Chamber and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u178	Mr Pechtold rightly referred to the constitutional unity of government policy, as laid down in Article 45 (3) of the Constitution. This means that we can address the Minister as a member of the cabinet to all statements made on behalf of the cabinet. Otherwise, each time, in each debate, we must invite five ministers who have said something about it. This is the minister speaking on behalf of the cabinet. If confusion has arisen, the Minister should actually say: it does not matter whether Minister A or Minister B said it, but this is what the Cabinet thinks; the word "begging" does not fit in with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u179	I think that's what I'm saying. I didn't put the word "begging" in my mouth; I would never do that. I've clearly indicated how I'm in it. That is also the position of the cabinet, because the members of the cabinet, including Minister Dijsselbloem, are working together to solve the problems we have recognised and had properly investigated. In my view, this also answers Mr Van der Staaij's question. I had started with a general introduction. It is very important to note that in 2015, before my arrival, EUR 128 million has already been allocated to the security chain to combat terrorism. A significant part of this, 32 million, has also been allocated to my department's budget for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police. Fortunately, I have been able to strengthen the previous budget, which for 2016, by EUR 250 million. 139 million of these went to the national police, 25 million to the judiciary and 15 million to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, there has been investment in the NFI, the probation, the fight against undermining crime and the fight against fraud. These additional resources have enabled the police, among other things, to conclude a good collective agreement, which does justice to the difficult work that our policemen do day in and day out. I am very pleased with this result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u180	It's like we're living in different realities. It's wonderful when some things go well with the police and the justice chain. 7% absenteeism is twice the national average. ICTs are sent home, neighborhood agents are overloaded, detectives are operating in such a way that one-tenth of the delivered cases are dismissed. DNA collection, agreed after Els Borst's murder, has still not been arranged. The Rotterdam parquet alone has 1,000 cases. The errors in the files mean that the number of acquittals has doubled. There is too little capacity and time to fight undermining crime. About the NFI, which the minister was just as proud of, he had to report this afternoon that 22 people are leaving. Lack of detectives leaves 1,000 homicide cases and another 500 very serious other crimes, such as rapes and robberies, unsolved. The percentage of packing is 26: that did not increase, did not decrease. The phrase "it's going well and the people are supporting me" doesn't show any ambition if you're nine months, eight months old, minister? How can the Minister ship off the people who work there with this kind of hollow talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr Pechtold mentions a list. I have responded to all these points. I also agree with the comment on absenteeism. That is absolutely too high with the national police. In the past, I have also had an extensive exchange of views with spokesmen on this, because it is absolutely essential to bring it down. That's a Chief Constable's priority. Of course, this also has to do with the reorganisation, especially with its long duration. My priority was from day one to complete the reorganisation in the interests of the people working in the national police as soon as possible. I am very pleased that I have indeed managed to do so in a number of months. I have received a great deal of support for this from the police unions, and I have received a great deal of support for it from the policemen themselves and from the internal organisation. I am delighted that it has been possible to do so. A new collective agreement, the completion of the reorganisation, the reopening of vacancies, all of which brings national police forces back in order as an organisation. In addition, the Chief Constable will pursue policies, as I also promised the Chamber, to reduce absenteeism. Let me make two other points very quickly. Mr Pechtold repeated his comments, so I shall now reply. The number of board cases at the Public Prosecutor's Office has fallen considerably in recent years. This means that these delays will also be eliminated. It's being worked hard, in every way possible. I will take another example from that. At the end of this month, the Court will have the results of the Reinforcement performance criminal justice chain programme, which will also show exactly where improvements have been made. That means there's a lot of work to be done. That's never different from what I've said. But I really want to distance myself from one thing. Mr Pechtold explained in my words that somehow I would not stand for the people, or that I would like to distance myself from their performance or qualities in any way. That is absolutely not the case. I'm completely in front of every single police officer. That is why I have worked hard and hard over the past few months to do justice to the interests of police officers and of the people working in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u182	Before I give you the floor, Mr Pechtold, I note that many questions have been asked which the Minister has said he will deal specifically with. I am looking at how we are holding this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u183	That will be the case, Mr President, but of course it is the general picture that is at stake. It is about the general picture of a minister who says: I am in front of my organisation and they should be pleased with it. Well, I don't think they should be happy about that at that organization at all. If I were to work in that organization, I would soon be hoping for a new minister, a minister who understands that his predecessor, Mr Opstelten, has rammed the national police through, so it is now true that it takes twice as long and costs 200 million extra. It is a credit to this ruler that he says that that may indeed be the reason why there is 7% absenteeism. But those are individuals. They're people. There are 50,000 cops, or how many are there now? I'm not a justice spokesperson, but it'll be something like that. So these are just hundreds of people, about whom the minister simply says: yes, that you are sick or overworked, because we as VVD thought that we could ram those national police through. That's what the Minister says now. Those are hundreds of people sitting at home and sick, and we now say, "Get some work done." Let me pick out one thing. Does the Minister deny that at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Rotterdam, at the public prosecutor's office, 1,000 cases are now on the shelf for more than a year? Is he gonna insist there's nothing going on at the D.A.'s office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u184	Just for the record: Mr Pechtold is of course doing very cleverly by first making a few accusations to my address and then asking a question, hoping that I will forget to contradict the heavy things he tried to put in my shoes for that. I am very concerned, I say in the direction of Mr Pechtold, about the high absenteeism. That's what I just said. That is why I have had an extensive exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. That is why, together with the new chief of police, I have also made this an important spearhead of his new policy. It is indeed undesirable that people should be at home as a result of a reorganisation or for other reasons. That is precisely why it is very important that great progress is made on this point. That sick leave needs to be reduced. In this respect, I do not recognise the qualifications which Mr Pechtold then makes to me. I hope that the police officers who are watching this debate also recognise that I have not said that at any time, that I have never said that and that I will never say that. I fully support these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u185	I know the minister as a nice man, but we're not talking about the man Dijsselbloem who says, "They're begging, and I'm done with it." We're not talking about whether man Van der Steur is an incredibly nice guy. We are talking about the fact that, in the last year of this cabinet, as a cabinet and opposition, we are jointly responsible for the gaps that we have been talking about for years and which the Minister himself admitted when he adopted his budget in the autumn that something had to be done about them, but that did not happen. I find it embarrassing that we are here from the opposition trying to use all the means of pressure to ensure that the holes, where the problems are now, are simply covered. The fact that we have to wait for that for more than a year is not to stand for your people. I think it's great to see that if you're on a job visit, you give everyone a hand and you know all the names. You're incredibly charming, but you just have to tell that Dijsselbloem not to make that kind of statement. And more importantly, you have to tell Dijsselbloem: "I need a few hundred million now. Everyone gets it. Hennis gets it, Van Rijn gets it, everybody gets it, but I really need it now. Even people are sick at home because of our cabinet policy." You should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u186	I think it is a good thing that, in this case, Minister Van der Steur and the nice man behind him come together. The concern for absenteeism in the police force, which Mr Pechtold rightly calls attention to, is therefore a major concern for me. I am concerned about the fact that so many people are sick at home because of a number of circumstances. The aim of this cabinet is therefore to reduce this absenteeism. The Chief Constable accepted that as his own assignment. This means that every effort is made at this point to do justice to the people who are sick at home now, for whatever reason. It's not good for the organization and it's not good for the people, and then it's not good for me. I would like to thank Mr Pechtold for seeing that the way in which I operate as a minister and the way in which I operate as a human being coincides completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u187	I think we started this debate in the eyes of this Minister, and I could not escape that impression with some hassle, namely those difficult questions about his fellow minister who had put police and justice as beggars. When we had that lucky we were done; the minister did not want to distance himself from it. The minister started his good news show. But it wasn't a good news show; it was a list of half-truths. What the Minister did there was very quick to list all sorts of figures without telling us how much savings had already been made in previous years and how much there was against threatening cuts or real cuts that have already made up for certain investments. Let me take one point: the 15 million euros from the Public Prosecutor's Office, promised in the November letter of 2015. There's nothing left of that, because there were all kinds of sums on the other side as cuts, for example on the prosecutors, or on the ICT. The Minister has not yet acknowledged that. I think we should discuss the facts in this debate, and I would ask this Minister to do so. Be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u188	The point of the D.A.'s office is coming back separately. I'd still like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u189	Mr President, this was the Minister's good news show. I want us to give an honest picture of the facts. This is important for this debate. Otherwise, we cannot have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u190	No, but that's the point that's on the table. And if that is not the case, I will certainly give you the floor to ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now going to answer the individual questions. First of all, let me answer the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u192	Before you proceed... Mr Van Nispen, the proposal is to have the Minister give his answers. He certainly goes into the matter of the Public Prosecutor's Office and then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u193	Fine. Then we'll talk to the state's attorney's office later. But the whole line that De Telegraaf reported this morning...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u194	I think he'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u195	... cuts on the police of 30 million, cuts on the Public Prosecutor's Office of 3 million...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u196	That's all gonna come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u197	... cuts in the Council's jurisdiction of 5 million. If the Minister is putting on a good news show here, it can't go unspoken. I simply think that we should have a debate on the facts. We can ask that of each other here. It would be a pleasure for the Minister to mention that at the same time as the good news show. If he doesn't, he doesn't give a fair picture of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u198	We're all here. So if that does not happen, the debate is not over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u199	I would like to respond to Mr Van Nispen's comment on De Telegraaf. I would like to say that openness and transparency are the guiding principles of my policy, but providing the news media with internal notes that are part of a discussion in an ongoing financial year is a lot of openness and transparency as far as I am concerned. This is indeed a misconception of reality. Of course, in my department there are always windfalls and setbacks in the course of a financial year. This is, of course, discussed within the official organisation. Of course, the Chamber will be informed about this when it is on the agenda, and that is, of course, at the end of the journey, namely in the budget and in the annual report, so if you know what the outcome of these matters are. It is annoying that these documents are now on the table, because the question arises as to whether 50 million savings are being made on the national police. No, that is not the issue, because in this current financial year there will also be windfalls that you will then turn against each other. I am pleased to be able to answer Mr Van Nispen's questions on this point. It is indeed a good thing that we take the facts as our starting point, and that means that we should not start from interim reporting for the first quarter of this year. It can be quite different today. I think it is right that we should not be tempted to talk about it then, because it is ultimately based on incomplete information about reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u200	This is interesting, because now the Minister denies very strongly that new cuts of EUR 30 million on the police, EUR 3 million in the Public Prosecutor's Office and EUR 5.5 million in the Council of Justice are threatening for 2016. If the Minister can take these concerns away immediately, for example by saying that this is not the case, we are already a little further. So we do not have to see the media throw a fine message into the world, as we did last Monday, but we can hear that there is absolutely no truth in the Minister's saying that there is a threat of austerity. I find that remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u201	It is wise for Mr Van Nispen to listen carefully to what I have to say. I would like to state that this is an internal note. On the basis of an internal note, we never really have a debate in the Chamber. That's right, because if you start with that, the end is lost. That internal note states that there is a problem and that there is also a philosophy about the direction of solution. That internal note ends at the end of the year in an end result. Of course, we must pursue this policy. But the suggestions put forward there are not official policies. Otherwise, I would have informed the Chamber. On this point, I can reassure Mr Van Nispen, because it is only at the end of the journey that it becomes clear what the real problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u202	So it's just philosophy. It's not gonna turn out to be anything. We can hear from the media that there will be extra money for the Justice Department. Internal pieces that have come to us in any way do not seem to me to be a philosophist. I just want to hear the Minister's whole story. It can't be that the good news does go out through the media, but that about threatening new cuts is said: that's all philosophized and we'll hide it somewhere later. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u203	No, but Mr. Van Nispen must understand how it works. Of course, there are setbacks and windfalls in an ongoing financial year. Of course we're talking about that. Of course, we are wondering what should happen if it were to remain so and if there were no windfalls against it. How could that possibly be covered? I am not involved in these issues myself. They don't come to me until there's a real discussion. This was an internal note that simply shows how to think about it. But if it is official policy, the Chamber will be informed at the appropriate moments. That's how it always works here, and that's how I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u204	It is very strange that the Minister has just said on the first point that he does not really want to talk about it. This is incredibly important. If in 2016 there is a greater shortage of police than the deficit we are talking about, that is a huge problem. That's what the Chamber wants to know. So my question is: are the figures in the papers correct? If so, and this was also Mr Van Nispen's question, is it even conceivable that, in addition to the problems that exist today, this problem will also play, either in 2017 or with it, those 300 million would be used again to solve old problems; nothing new investment will be made either in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u205	I could involve this issue in the national police force, but I'm pulling it forward. The national police system is as follows: An investigation has been conducted by PwC at the request of the police to see what the police need money to do their job in the coming years. We then had a validation carried out by Mr De Jong. Those documents have been sent to the Chamber and they are part of discussions on my budget. This shows that extra money was needed for the national police. I did those investigations because I wanted to know exactly what we were talking about from the care I shared with the Chamber and which I had myself from the day I was appointed Minister. I wanted to know straight away what the fact that we are extending the reorganisation means for the efficiency task set up by the national police on the day the reorganisation began. This means for the year 2016 that we have invested EUR 188 million extra in the national police force, including the Spring Note, of which I would like to return to this point: EUR 31 million will directly benefit basic police care. That is different from what I have just heard a number of spokesmen say, namely that there will be no extra money for basic police care. Out of the 49 million released in the spring note, 31 million will benefit basic police services. This was the basis for the budget debate and, therefore, for the spring note. Those are essential things. If you compare what is additional for 2016 compared to Mr.De Jong's validated outcome, there is still a difference between around 50 million. I have agreed with the national police that by means of additional steering measures, in a number of areas, which can solve 50 million within its own budget without this leading to forced redundancies, reduced police capacity or whatever. If that does not work, then there is always the reserve for the national police who is sufficient to deal with such a setback. This means that the 2016 total national police package complies with Mrs Kooiman's motion and that I hope that for the future, together with the cabinet, I will take firm steps for the national police for 2017 and subsequent years. That's exactly the story. Forced layoffs and additional cuts are not on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u206	Is this the point of the national police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u207	I hadn't started at the point of the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u208	Yes, but you have just said that you are raising that point. I suggest you finish that first. Members will then be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u209	I have actually answered the questions that have been asked about the national police. I have also indicated that I am complying with the motion tabled by Mrs Kooiman, which was shared by the Chamber. I would add that this problem has not yet been resolved for the future. That may be clear. That therefore means that my commitment is to make sure that the Millions' Note, together with Minister Dijsselbloem and his name has been mentioned here more often than not, that there will be an additional investment for the national police. I have also read in the newspaper that there has been talk of amounts. If it were in the order of EUR 300 million, I would have been greatly helped, because I would be able to solve a large part of the problem effectively, if not all the problems. It would be a big step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u210	The Minister refers to the motions tabled during the examination of the 2016 budget. That treatment was in November. That is exactly the context of this debate. Then the Minister said: I will take up these motions and I will go to the fight for amounts in the year I took office if it turns out that there are gaps. Is it true that with the image that the Minister is now sketching, he has exactly what he has asked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u211	Mr Segers will understand that I will not make any announcements about the internal discussions in the cabinet. What I stand for is whether it's enough. Is this gonna work? Can I as a driver accept that this is the result for 2016? The answer to that is: I can. I can add that I am in good consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office about a setback that expected it in 2016. We're trying to solve that problem. My commitment is to get that done. That is also acceptable. The point of the national police has been solved. Good discussions are held with the Public Prosecutor's Office and negotiations are under way with the Justice Council for the years 2017 and beyond, on top of the investment we already made in 2016 for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u212	The Minister says that it is fine or at least a result that he can defend, but the opposition then says that it is not fine, when we have given a general mandate and have not chiseled amounts in stone and laid down in a motion. The assignment was "Look what the holes are, go close them and fight for it." The Minister said: I commit to it; I do it. In the debate in March, in which the Prime Minister was present, Buma tabled a motion and I heard the Minister very well: he was going to fight for it. If we then talk to the organization and when it says that it is not enough, that people should be sent home and that things are not going well, then that is not an outrage played out but it is about holes that have fallen. The Minister can't take responsibility for that, can he? He can't say it's fine, can he? If he stands before his people, and he said at the beginning of the debate to do so, then he must fight much harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u213	I told you, there's no such thing as forced dismissal. I stand before my people. I think the result for 2016 is absolutely acceptable. Of course, there are still points of discussion. It is up to me to get rid of them together with, for example, the Public Prosecutor's Office. I will. That's exactly how it's supposed to be for a minister. The result is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u214	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u215	I have a very specific question. If the police send people away in the next few weeks, if people are sent away who are now working very hard on the ICT problems with the national police, which are very big, what does the minister do? What does he do when people say in the justice system that they can't do it and that they could close a branch, if the KEI project fails, if the Public Prosecutor says he can't invest in quick trial, or the ZMS project, and if people are sent away from the NFI? What will the Minister do when it appears next week that people are walking out the door and not coming back? So what is the response of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u216	Insofar as this leads to the failure to comply with the agreements we have made with each other, I will take action. That goes without saying. That's exactly what I'm doing. Let's be real: 188 million extra for the national police is not nothing. That is a very high amount, which I am extremely pleased with and which we have helped the national police fantasticly, on the basis of the investigation and the agreements we have made with each other. In recent years, the Public Prosecutor's Office has received 36 million for a number of specific tasks, including the Hoekstra Commission, counter-terrorism and structural 15 million for ICT. And yes, I have sent documents to the Chamber on this at its request. It is so that the Public Prosecutor's Office has indicated that it expects a problem of around 14 million for 2016. Of course, we will solve this problem together. It's as simple as that. That's what I'm gonna do with the D.A.'s office, and that's what the Chamber should expect from me. I'll report on that, and the Chamber can take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u217	Everywhere we've researched and talked about, there's holes. I want to zoom in on the police fines. There's a 40-million-dollar setback. How will they be collected and covered for 2016 and the following years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u218	Firstly, I have spoken extensively with the Chamber about the fines, because that is a matter of concern. Mr Van Oosten said on this point that he would like to see the fines and transactions not included in my department's budget. They are at the moment, and I will have to do so. And I do. In the last year the fines have been extremely disappointing. Why? Because the national police have abandoned their desire to achieve a better collective agreement. As I have said in general terms that I have discussed it with the Chamber, that strike is delirious. This means that even in the first quarter of this year, as we have reported to the Chamber, the fines and transactions have been disappointing, especially the fines. I think and hope that, as Mr Pechtold said in an interrupting debate, this means that people are better at keeping to the agreements. That would be very good. It is not good for my budget, but very good for our country. That's what the agreements we have on speeding violations are for. I will, of course, ensure that there are setbacks on this point. They will not lead to any form of redundancies or additional cuts in the organisations we are talking about. However, I am going to look very closely at two aspects. If Mr Pechtold will allow me, I will explain them. The first is road safety on the provincial roads. We agreed with each other that we would structurally reduce the number of deaths on provincial roads. That has not happened in recent years. I am very concerned about that. If Mr Pechtold were to ask me where, in my view, safety requires an extra effort to maintain the maximum speed, that would be a point I would like to step up. That's what I'm talking to the mayors and the provinces about. It is one of the points that I think I should be expected to take appropriate action, given the number of deaths on these roads. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u219	So there's gonna be flashlights on 80 kilometers of roads. The Minister is now bringing it from the perspective from which I like to see it, namely fewer road deaths. I hear the Minister now saying that there are lights coming on 80 kilometers of roads. The Minister comes because he is 40 million short this year and writes in his Spring note that he is going to get that from the fines. So it's true. So the Minister intends to raise 40 million from fines on 80 kilometres. I'm sketching the picture. At the beginning of the year, fines were generally increased by more than 1%, while administrative costs, which amounted to €7, were increased to €9. It was already more than cost-covering, it is now much more than cost-covering. Actually, it's part of the fine. I love the story of road safety, but is it true that the Minister is going to get about 40 million out of more fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u220	Whether this will generate 40 million depends on the degree to which the target is met, namely the reduction in the number of deaths on these roads. Mr Pechtold is now suggesting that this should yield 40 million, but that is not how I am. I am Minister of Security and Justice and it is my job to ensure that security is guaranteed. I don't personally care about what I use to do that. It's about the ultimate goal. We note that there are many more deaths on B roads than we consider desirable. We have put in place a policy that will reduce this. That's not gonna happen. We must take action on this. I'm fine with the fact that any income comes from that. How much that is is not of great importance to me. What really matters is that we have to achieve the goal. I don't think the suggestion that it's mixed together is right. It is true that the fines have been increased by 1%. That is the inflation correction, so the fines have not actually been increased. They're getting up in inflation. The Secretary of State has discussed administrative costs extensively with the Chamber. These are based on the actual increase in the cost of collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr. Pechtold, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u222	I might need another one, because the minister is here keeping a story about road deaths, but it's not at all. In his own Spring note, which he apparently doesn't know, he says he's 40 million short. He gets 14 million out of other cover. We don't know what that is. I like to hear what's going on. The Minister writes very clearly about the rest of 26 million: "The setbacks on the file fines and transactions will be covered for 2016 and further by taking measures in the area of traffic enforcement, and by including the indexation of traffic fines in the multi-annual budget." So it has nothing to do with the policy that the Minister suddenly thinks: I'm going to do something about the road deaths on the provincial roads. No, the Minister is 40 million short and wants the Chamber to believe he's making it on the provincial roads now. No, he gave himself the task of raising 40 million with the same finance minister in his back. I ask a specific question: is that 40 million deficit covered only from those provincial roads? Does the Minister exclude from what he himself writes, namely that other fines go up or that the police are once again confronted with coupon quotas: go out on the street and make sure you pay my budget together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr Pechtold is really turning things around. I only have one simple line: fines are there to get people to follow the rules. That's what we do in those places where security gives it. In this case it is about the B roads, because there is a problem that cannot be solved in other ways. In the end, the end result is irrelevant to me. The goal is to reduce the number of road deaths on provincial roads. Of course, you can include that in your Spring note. It is a policy that you can pursue, but the policy has a goal, namely to improve road safety. There will be no question of coupon quotas to reassure Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mr President, my final point. Can the Minister tell me how to raise $40 million? That's what he writes in the Spring Note! I am not concerned with the noble cause of reducing the number of road deaths, because it is a financial problem. The minister has to cover that up, and he's trying to cover the county roads. Can he do a math for me that shows you how in six months they will indeed be able to pick up a little too fast there, and 40 million on the provincial roads? That is what we are talking about, because the Minister writes that he will solve the problems of 2016 in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u225	I am happy to do so, but Mr Pechtold will understand that I do not have the underlying calculations in front of me in my budget. If Mr Pechtold wants me to do so, he will of course receive that answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u227	Mr President, Mr Buma wishes to intervene on the issue of fines. I have a different point of my own, which is why it might be better for him to go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u228	Okay. That's what you guys arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u229	Many thanks to Mr Van der Staaij. I am indeed concerned with the point made by Mr Pechtold. I am also surprised that the Minister's reply includes the importance of road safety. A noble interest! I myself have been the spokesman for Traffic and Water State and indeed the reduction in the number of road deaths is a goal. If what the Minister says is true, then there is a goal that needs to be met and which follows what needs to be done with the fines. If the Minister says he's concerned with road safety, I'll ask him where the target is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u230	The aim has been formulated when the policy we have for years and therefore have not been materialised, namely to reduce the number of road deaths. If Mr Buma wants to know what the precise objective is and what exact numbers are involved, I have to change that further with him in the second term, because I have not at the moment been prepared to do so. The starting point is that... Mr Pechtold is right that you can also make other choices. My predecessor has not abolished the coupon quotas for nothing. I fully support that and will not re-introduce it. Road safety is also the starting point for the policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The goal is to reduce the number of road deaths on the B-roads, something I'm very worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u231	I'm just gonna say it: I feel like it's not right, it's not true what the minister says. For example, if it were true, the Chamber would have received a letter with new road safety targets. It's possible. He can then indicate the methods by which he intends to do so, and there the increase in fines can indeed be one of them. And that could eventually have an outcome. As Mr Pechtold rightly said, the Minister must understand that the Chamber sees through this game of the Minister. The Minister has to see that too, because it simply says: we do the cover of the problem out of increasing the fines. The fact that he's sticking a story about the 80 kilometers of roads to that, I find strange. If that were true, there was that plan. The Minister himself has just said that it is the old plan and that he is now materializing it through the traffic fines. No! The Minister's just using the increase in traffic fines as cover, and that's okay. He calls the 80 kilometers roads and the story he's telling with them is the other half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u232	I have just said it, but I repeat that there is no increase in traffic fines. There is talk of strengthening and improving enforcement. I don't do that myself. I do this by identifying, together with all my partners, the municipalities and the provinces, the bottlenecks where this problem arises. We do so on the basis of the existing policy, which aims to reduce the number of road deaths in the Netherlands over the years. I do this together with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. That is the starting point. It goes without saying that we expect revenue from this. I can take that income with me in the Spring Note and I have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u233	What is the point of this consultation if you already know what the outcome will be, namely a yield of EUR 26.5 million or EUR 40 million? So what's the point of all this discussion with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mr Buma also knows that you are consulting with the municipalities and provinces in the Netherlands. We hang out here together by making good mutual agreements. It also means there's a risk that I won't make it to 26 million. If that happens, I'm gonna have to take care of it another way. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u235	The Minister has just said twice: there are some setbacks at the Public Prosecutor's Office and we are talking about this very well. Isn't the Spring Paper the time to respond to this kind of problem by adding to it in the current year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u236	I'm sure you could have. The interviews I had with the D.A. on this matter took place after the date of publication of the Spring Note. The conversations are taking place now and we're just gonna deal with it together with the D.A. in a good and sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u237	Before I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij: Minister, wouldn't you go into the Public Prosecutor's Office separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u238	Actually, I'm getting through my answer about the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u239	The Minister mentioned this point twice. In the 2015 Public Prosecutor's Office, which we have just received, I read rather alarming language. The organization really says: the rack is out. It will therefore be difficult to catch another setback with other posts. So we're gonna need extra money. Is the Minister's concrete commitment, therefore, not this one: yes, I will come up with a letter of amendment to the Spring Note on the subject of the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u240	No. The spring note is there like it is. I'm in good conversation with the state's attorney's office. I see opportunities to remove the problems that remain for 2016. Of course, on the basis of De Galan's report and the validation by De Jong, I am committed to further strengthening the Public Prosecutor before 2017. As I have just said, the situation for 2016 is acceptable to the Public Prosecutor. However, it is not a piece of cake; I entirely agree with Mr Van der Staaij. I'm not gonna break my bet. My commitment is to continue investing in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u241	"No fat pot" is a euphemism when I see the alarming language in the Annual Report. There I read that the quality and performance of the prosecutor are under heavy pressure, that new tasks have been added and that the rack is really out. That was also the signal given by the Chamber last year: look at the Spring note what extra is needed. It's gonna take extra. Why not deliver that now and why move this back to Prince's Day and to next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u242	The deficits which the Public Prosecutor's Office has very recently expressed to me, as well as to the Chamber, I have also sent documents to the Chamber on this matter, inter alia, in conjunction with a number of other organizations. We really need to solve that with each other. We can do that, and we're just gonna do that. In itself, this does not require an additional amount. This is mainly due to the way in which policy is shaped. As a board I accept the situation as it is now, but my commitment is to be able to do something more structuralally for the Public Prosecutor in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u243	I was under the impression that we were still working on the block about the police, Mr. President. I also have questions about the state's attorney's office. I heard the Minister just between the lines saying that the police, as if they had not yet enough to do, will soon have to meet the Minister's coupon quotas again, but that aside. My question concerns the Kooiman c.s. motion, the December 2015 motion asking for sufficient resources for the police to carry out its tasks. That motion wasn't carried out. The fact is that for this year, 2016, there is a deficit in the national police force of 134 million euros. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u244	No. As I have just indicated, with the 188 million, the deficit compared to the reporting of PwC validated by De Jong is 50 million. I have said, together with the national police, that it must be able to solve this problem in the directional field. The chief of police is dealing with this problem of steering. If we fail to achieve some of it or even the whole amount, we have found that own funds still provide sufficient reserves to cover it. I hope you don't have to, but if you have to, you can. That is why I have said that the motion has been complied with. There is no reason to invest extra in the national police for 2016. There is reason to invest extra in the national police for 2017 and beyond, because the budget as it stands today has not yet included the results of the De Jong and PwC reports. So I am committed to that, but we are having this debate later this year, as Mr Klaver said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u245	This is really weird. The entire opposition has the same information, namely that there is a deficit of EUR 134 million for this year. The Minister denies that here. He doesn't think that's really the case. The fact is, if the minister doesn't intervene this year, the police are heading for bankruptcy. Last year there was a million deficit. As the Minister knows, you can't keep doing that year in, year out. Does the Minister also deny that ICT experts have already left, to give you an example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u246	No. As we know, the national police spends quite a lot of money on ICT, around EUR 600 million. Of the EUR 600 million, a lot of good work is being done. However, this also applies to the fact that there is a budget within the national police force, which will have to be met. This means that they must ensure that the activities they undertake are in line with the budget there is. For the coming years this will mean that these additional resources will have to be made available, also in order to be able to take another step in this respect. For this year it means that, within the agreed budget, they simply have to do the work they stand for with the extra 188 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u247	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u248	In conclusion, the Minister is not prepared to add anything else to the national police. So we are left with the deficit of EUR 134 million. There are two possibilities: either the Minister is not properly informed about the financial situation and the opposition is, or the Minister does not care so much and he leaves it at that. I'm both very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u249	I don't think that's the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u250	I really have a problem with the Minister coming up with those provincial roads earlier. It wasn't in the spring note, just like Buma exposed. So I went to look for it and come up with a message from less than a year ago that the number of deaths on provincial roads has fallen incredibly. In 2003 another 249 people died, ten years later there were 100. So it's more than halved. What is a problem is that there are too few middlemen. That is what I read in this report a year ago should be invested in for 1.2 billion by the cabinet. So it has nothing to do with speeding; it just has to do with mid-bermen. And the number of deaths has decreased. I find it difficult for a minister who apparently panics to defend his austerity here to come up with something like that and to work on our feelings, when the facts are simply different. Or did Minister Schultz find 1.2 billion for the middle men?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u251	I had already said to Mr Pechtold that I would be happy to make that calculation with him. I'll do that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. I rise to speak on Mr Oskam's motion (34300-VI, No. 34). This motion calls on the government to ensure that there will be no question of seven courts closing. The planning on this, as indicated by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Recourt, does not provide for the closure of courts in 2016, but in the years after. As a result of this motion, I had very good discussions with the directors, the governors of the courts concerned, the judicial board and with the Minister for Housing and National Service, as I had already promised the Chamber. The result is that very good agreements have been made on resolving the emptying of the courts, one of the aspects of Mr Oskam's motion. It thus contributes to the Council's budget for the case-law by eliminating the need to finance empty spaces. This will, moreover, be a multiannual programme. This programme has been very well agreed, also with the Minister for Housing and the National Service, which together with this Minister will ensure that the vacancy in the courts is adequately filled. This means that there will be no closure of the courts in the future. I believe that this has led to Mr Oskam's motion. I am also pleased that this has happened, because the motion has helped to bring these parties together for the first time in order to resolve the problems of the courts. I really want to say this to the CDA and all the parties who voted in favour of this motion. It was a big problem because, from my point of view, there was about 30,000 m of empty space. It seems that through this cooperation between municipalities, the Council of Justice, the Minister for Housing and National Service and many other parties, we can adequately solve the emptiness. This also solves the financing problem of the case law for the future. Mr Klaver asked whether there were any continuity problems in the caselaw. That is not the case. The case law expected last year that own funds would be exhausted. The good news is that there has been no such thing. In fact, last year's case law ended positively; money was added to own funds. This also means that the resistance of the judiciary, in terms of both equity and equalization reserves, has increased to a total amount of around 60 million; 65 million to be precise. That money is therefore also available for any setbacks in 2016. With the case law, I am in very good consultation on the price negotiations for the years 2017 and next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u252	I would suggest that you conclude this point before I give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u253	We have already talked so much about the case law that I have already answered all the questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u254	I must honestly say that my question is a bit between the prosecution and the judiciary, but it is essential. Last year there was a very large settlement of EUR 358 million, which is also in the Spring paper. When we see how big these problems are at least once, I am surprised that the Minister has agreed that such a huge part will eventually be taken out of the general picture of justice, as it is so beautifully called. The Minister may judge these problems differently from the Chamber, but they are indeed there. In view of the current problems, is the Minister prepared to sit down with the Minister of Finance for the purpose of allowing a more real part of that settlement to benefit the Department of Justice and all those people for whom the Minister feels so responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u255	I would like to thank Mr Buma for asking this question, otherwise I might have forgotten it. That wouldn't be good. The settlement with VimpelCom was a great success, I agree with Mr Buma, but that incidental income has been exceptionally high in recent years. That was certainly true for this case. It's not customary. You can't go through that line either, because there won't be this kind of amount every year. Until the 2016 budget, the scheme was that such incidental income should never be used for structural expenditure coverage. Mr Segers has just said that this is the case now. I was able to make a good deal with the Minister of Finance: 100 million of such settlements can be made structuralally. The risk of non-compliance in the long term lies with the Ministry of Finance and is therefore not charged to my budget. I'm very happy about that. This means that the Minister of Finance does not have to worry about this appointment before 2016. It also means that he can use that amount elsewhere or has already used it and that he knows that there will be coverage for that amount again next year. Personally, I am extremely pleased with the 100 million for the simple reason that it is structural and that I can counter structural investment. With an occasional amount, I could do much less. If you look at the average, this is a very reasonable arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u256	What has changed is that there is a probable deal for money in 2017. As a result, the acute problem has become a one-year problem, a problem for 2016. I also realize that you cannot allow 358 million to go to the Justice Department in a structural manner. The Minister is right to say that the money can only be used for occasional problems. This is an occasional problem, but a major occasional problem. The Minister of Finance is a good negotiator if he has already covered a full 100 million in the first year for three years. If this minister delivers zero settlements to Finance for three years, Minister Dijsselbloem still has a profit. I can tell the minister it's going to be over 100 million. It is really possible to go back to the Minister of Finance with the message that the picture has changed, that it is no longer structural but occasional and that there should therefore be more money to go to the Justice Department. He can even confront his colleague with his statements: you think it's beggars, but I don't think so; make more money there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u257	For the record, what the Minister of Finance allowed me on my budget is a very generous offer in itself. We are looking at one year now, but two or three years ago such amounts did not come in. I do not know to what extent that will be the case in the future. I would remind Mr Buma that, in October, when I discussed this with the Chamber, there were also parties who, in my opinion, rightly pointed out that I should be careful not to let my policy on large settlements and transactions be driven by finance. That was also noted in the First Chamber. In this way, I find the regulation that is now in place to be quite reasonable. I am grateful to the Minister of Finance for being willing to do so. That does indeed mean that he has an advantage this year, but I do not rule out that advantage being reflected in additional investments that I myself have been able to make in my budget. The Minister of Finance probably used it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u258	This is a hearty debate about a promise that has not been fulfilled and about the pain that various organisations in the criminal justice chain are suffering. At the same time, it is clear. As Mr Buma said, this is an occasional problem which can be solved occasionally. Now the Minister can rejoice in a broad coalition that says: we stand for security. Is it really so difficult to go back to the Minister of Finance and discuss this with him if this is so wide in the Chamber? Can the Minister of Justice not go back, in view of this one year, in view of the problems and the indignation of the opposition? Can't he go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u259	I have, I think, explained very explicitly why I believe that the issue for me as responsible for this ministry is acceptable in 2016 too, and why I believe that the motions that lie ahead are being complied with. That doesn't mean the garlands are hung everywhere. That is certainly not the case. Of course, it is still important to be able to make a further investment in the Millions note as well, and I am fully committed to this. I see this as a task which I have been given on the basis of the motions tabled. Everyone knows it, and Mr Recourt also pointed out: the 2016 Spring Note regulates, the 2017 Million Note regulates and the following years. There's that bet. With what lies ahead, I can do it and the organisations can do it, also in view of their own assets. I have just spoken about the judiciary and the policies of the national police and the enormous investments we have made in recent years. These are structural investments in the quality and financing of these organisations which are of great importance to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u260	At the same time, the people involved in the prosecution, justice and police say that it is not enough. So the Minister can say that he thinks it is enough and that he can defend it, they say it is not enough, and it is not enough for parties who have agreed in good faith to the budget, on the basis of motions that have been adopted. Those are two very important facts that the Minister must have something to say. What does this have to say to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u261	That, of course, tells me a great deal, and that also means that I share the concerns that have been expressed, especially for the longer term. The national police, on the basis of the report and the investigation I had myself conducted, have made it very clear that they will need more money in the future. So that is also the commitment of my discussions with the cabinet. To date, I have had a very positive response to this, in all honesty, despite the fact that there are also natural needs in other departments. Nevertheless, colleagues have been prepared not only to make investments in this area, because we are obviously forgetting a little bit about it, and Mr Wilders is also pleased that we are doing so because of the huge investments that have been made in my department for asylum. That money also comes for a large part of other departments. So there is huge investment in security in general, in asylum and the rest of the chain. I therefore believe that I can take responsibility for the specific points mentioned, to ensure that at the end of the year I can show that the concerns for 2016 have not been met, and it is my commitment to remove them for 2017 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u262	Is it really the case that the Minister will walk away and say: I know the stories of all those people who are working in the criminal justice chain for the safety of the Netherlands, I have heard the stories here in the Chamber and I am shrugging my shoulders? So that's it? So that's the debate? Is that the way the minister would like to run away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u263	In any case, I am not running away from any debate, but certainly not from this debate because I know what I have done over the past year and because I see what the results are. I see structural investments in security, both in the 2016 budget and in the Spring paper, and I have good hope that the process will continue in 2017. If what was said in the newspapers is true, and there would indeed be an investment of 300 million in my department, then of course I have been much more helped there. Then I can't walk out of here and shrug my shoulders on it. That's not my nature. I am not shrugging my shoulders for anyone, and certainly not for those who work hard and hard for our security and our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u264	I have two questions about justice. The Minister said very quickly that the reserves in the case-law are sufficient to cover the deficits, and that they are 60 to 65 million. That's an amount I don't recognize, so maybe the Minister can indicate the source on which he bases it and where I might find it. I'd rather recognize the amounts of about 10 to 15 million from De Jong's report. He also indicates that you can use part of that reserve, because the case law cannot go bankrupt, but that you are undermining the financing model of the case law. Then why does this minister choose to say: tar on your ability? So it's actually two questions I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u265	The financing model of the caselaw is based precisely on the idea that there can also be a claim to the assets. There are two reserves. I will just turn up the exact figures for Mr Klaver. The equalization reserve, or equalization account as it is called, stands at 41 million at the end of 2015. Own funds increased to 24 million as a result of the positive result at the end of 2015. I would add that it was not the expectation of justice that there would be a positive outcome, but the number of cases in 2015 was extremely disappointing. This means that there has been a positive result for the sake of justice. This leads to a total amount of 65 million available as own funds and as equalisation accounts. The equalization account is intended precisely to accommodate any fluctuations. That's how the system works. At the end of the day, if that would not be enough, justice will come to me again and so it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u266	In my view, this equalization reserve is intended to equalise production rather than meet deficits. That's what you'd come out of own funds for. That is the first thing I want to check, because the Minister says that the equalization reserve is intended for that purpose. With an equity capital of 24 million, I still see a deficit in the justice system, because we have an amount of 30 million circulating. You don't have to be able to count very well to see that there is a deficit of 6 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u267	Mr Klaver also knows that we discussed in detail in the 2016 budget, and I happened to read the Acts that I also have the possibility, within the rules, to use the equalisation account for that purpose. That may not be necessary at all, and that was not the case in the past year, but it is at the disposal of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u268	De Jong's report, from which the minister himself quotes, indicates: it is a possibility of a reserve; it is only a label that you put on it, but it does affect the way in which justice is financed. I think it is quite a big step to cover a gap that is relatively limited. That is not the purpose of an equalisation reserve. You have two kinds of reserves for a reason. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister at least to go further on this point and say that it is not wise to address the equalisation reserve. I don't think it's very healthy for an organization to go further into its reserve if it comes under a critical value. It's possible, but that equalization reserve is a basis on which you set up your funding. I think it would be very unwise for the Minister here to say: we have talked about it in the budget, let us do so. As I understand it, at least the Chamber was divided on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u269	That's not new. I remember these debates with my predecessor when I was in another place in this Chamber. We have made the arrangements with the judiciary in this way. New is that the case law had expected him to fall through his assets by the end of 2015, to which Mr Klaver also refers. That has not happened, precisely for the reasons why the system of financing works as it works. It's a PxQ funding, so the number of cases determines what is needed for justice. The number of cases has been considerably lower than expected. This leads to an increase in equity rather than a decrease in equity. I would like to add one more point on the case law. Mr Wilders gave an overview of the policy of the PVV Group in a broad sense, focusing in particular on asylum issues. Let me give him something else at one point. A total of 49 million has been added to the national police budget due to the asylum problem. 31 million of these benefits basic police care, as the work is done in the field of public order and security. The rest is devoted to the safety of the Netherlands, namely the registration of the people entering the Netherlands. The second point is that the total asylum package also includes 14 million for justice. I would also like to say this in the direction of Mr Klaver. Another 14 million will be added in 2016 for the sake of justice, as the case law is necessarily also involved in the asylum issue. Of the total amount, 14 million will be made available to legal aid, as legal aid costs have increased in the context of asylum procedures. Part of the total amount made available to my department for the budget, which is a total amount of EUR 739 million for the Spring Note, will benefit justice, legal aid and the national police, including basic police services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u270	I'd like to know how far you're going with answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u271	I have had so many interruptions that I have answered all the questions, except those of Mr Pechtold. I'll move it to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u272	A lot of questions haven't been answered. Let me just talk about justice. Mr Klaver was right, of course. The Minister is throwing the equity and equalization reserve back into one heap, while these are two very different things. The equalization reserve is intended to cope with business fluctuations and not to exhaust them. That is what the Minister has been doing for years. The Court of Auditors established this in the latest report. Own funds have fallen, fallen, fallen. Now it's because of a coincidence that we just didn't get into the red numbers. What kind of financially irresponsible behaviour is this to impose on its own reserves and to impose a financial problem on subsequent Cabinets? Because it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u273	Let me read out the figures for Mr Van Nispen. In 2013, equity was 29 million, in 2014 it was 23 million and in 2015 it had increased to 24 million. So I cannot support Mr Van Nispen's conclusion. The same applies to the equalization account. It amounted to 52 million in 2013 and 58 million in 2014. It thus increased in 2014 and slightly decreased to 41 million in 2015. This means that the total reserves in the case-law amount to 65 million, compared to 81 million in 2014. There is therefore no basis for Mr Van Nispen's comments on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u274	The Minister is now directly opposed to the report of the General Court which was presented to us last. Too bad he doesn't seem to know that. Another conclusion from that report is that since 2010 the VVD came into power in the Ministry of Security and Justice............................................................................................................................................................................................ The price is being negotiated, but the number of cases is rolling out of the model. Year after year, the Minister chooses not to implement it according to the rules of the law. In doing so, he saddles justice with a financial problem. My question is again why the Minister does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u275	That is what the Minister does because it appears year after year that last year too was the case, again, that the estimates are not necessarily equal to the number of cases that are being carried out. For example, over the past year we were able to add money to the general reserve, own funds. It's as simple as that. The Minister responsible for justice is, of course, free to make good agreements with the PxQ agreements, knowing that if there are shortages at the end of the day, he will have to meet them. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u276	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u277	I totally disagree with the Minister on this point. Another unanswered question from me concerns this morning's article in De Telegraaf, which contained figures: an additional cut of 30 million on the police that is threatening, an additional cut of 3 million on the Public Prosecutor's Office that is threatening and an additional cut of 5.5 million on the Council for justice. The Minister says that this is only a little philosophic and that we will see it at the end of the year. However, I am getting information that this is not the whole story. Organisations can be used for this type of money throughout the year. These organisations are therefore being cut back during the year. I demand clarification on this tonight. I want to know how these cuts relate to the whole story about how we're gonna solve problems and we're gonna see it by the end of the year. I don't think that can wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u278	Just so we're clear, how does it work in the funding country of the government again? That works like this. We have the spring note, in which you can cover expected setbacks for the year 2016, in this particular case. You have the autumn note, in which the view you have, the overall picture, is already a bit better. You can take measures for the same year, in this case 2016. Then you have the budget for the years 2017 and beyond. That's how it works. If there were any setbacks after the first quarter of the year, there was the discussion about the issue of how to solve it. Of course, that's what they're looking at. I have just said that there are no cuts in 2016 and I am sticking to them. I have already promised Mr Van Nispen that. Furthermore, I do not think it is appropriate to discuss internal notes. After all, we agreed to do so on the basis of the spring note, the autumn note and the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u279	Thank you. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u280	The Minister therefore denies that organisations can be cut back during the year. So that's not right at all? You can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u281	No, of course you can talk about this with each other during the year.That is perfectly logical.But the question is then what that reflects in. This ultimately reflects in the spring note or in the autumn note, especially in the autumn note. In the end, the annual report is accountable. Those are all moments when you can debate it as a Chamber. Of course, the Ministry is free to organise the financing as it sees fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u282	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u283	I've answered all the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u284	Yes. Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u285	There's been another question about the police. It was $50 million twice. I understand that the Minister has indeed said that there is a police deficit of 50 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u286	We have made an additional investment of EUR 188 million in total in the budget and in the Spring paper. This means that there is still a difference of 50 million compared to the research we have carried out. I have agreed with the national police that she will ensure that the 50 million will not be realized in terms of direction. If that is the case, then the reserve, the police's own resources, will provide enough room to absorb it if necessary. We hope that this is not the case, but if it is, if part of it is to be taken up, it can be done within the general reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u287	As to whether you can do that, you can certainly disagree. Perhaps it is a good thing that this will be looked at later. You can cut what you want, but where is the limit of responsible shortening on own funds? Indeed, own funds are not meant for everything either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u288	Allow me, Mr. Chairman. There have been very clear agreements on this. At some point it is so that the equity of an organization like the national police under a certain... I thought it was 1.5%, but that I hold for a while for good, because I do not know exactly. But that means that a recovery plan should be submitted. None of us want that, of course. That is why this will also be carefully looked at. But the deal with the national police is that they will cover that amount of 50 million by means of guidance in a responsible way. For that reason, with the loss of that equity, without risk of recovery plans, I dare to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u289	Thank you for that answer. It is important for the Chamber to be clear about this if it were to happen in due course. What I find intriguing is 'control measures for EUR 50 million', because that is quite an amount. So what are the steering measures that should yield EUR 50 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u290	Maybe it's just as good for the perspective to say this. The total budget of the national police is 5 billion. The steering problem is 50 million. I'm always trying to make that very simple for myself, but maybe that's because I'm a lawyer. This means that a €5,000 problem has to be solved at €50. Those are the proportions. The police have been asked to contribute to this. The way she does it, she's with the police. The Chief Constable's just gonna have to make policy on that. He doesn't have to do that today, but he has to make sure he gets close to 50 million by the end of the year. He must do so responsibly, without being forced to resign, without affecting the primary basis for police care, because she has made these agreements explicitly with the Chamber and with me. Within a budget of 5 billion, that is a task, but it is not impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u291	Perhaps this is part of the big difference of opinion with the Chamber, because while the Minister was always talking about money, he now says: 50 million is being cut and I do not know what it is. That is not enough, because he can say that 50 million is not as bad as 5 billion, but he also knows that most of the 5 billion is simply fixed. You can sell your car and sell your boat, but most of it is just pay. So there's always just a little bit you can cut back on. The minister doesn't say there's going to be cuts. So that's not gonna happen. There will be "control measures." I want to know what these steering measures are, because if the Minister had taken them, he would have really written a 50 million cut in a regular letter. I suppose he already knows what the police are thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u292	No, that's really up to the Chief Constable himself. He has a responsibility of his own. I have said the following: Mr Buma does not have to worry about that. If that were not possible, then the equity would be sufficient to absorb it. The task lies with the Chief Constable, who also accepted it, to work on it by means of control, for example by countering overtime. Overtime is a big post in the national police. If you improve your internal organization on a number of points, there will probably be less overtime. You can think of the picket fees, you can think of the hiring of externals, where there are quite a lot of them. Those are all possibilities, but it's up to the Chief Constable to do that. That's the system we chose with the national police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u293	I do find it interesting that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u294	Mr Buma, you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u295	I'm sure I'm gonna take advantage of that, but the Minister is now talking about picketing fees. You can reduce it, but I think that's what's stopped. So I'm not sure that's wise. Can I ask the Minister to tell the Chamber, for the supplementary budget, how the 50 million additional cuts in the police force will be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u296	I have to think about that, but there is no objection, of course, in principle. If that's what the Chamber is asking, I'll be happy to meet it when it's known by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u297	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I think there's a need for a second term. We're just gonna keep going. Speaking time is two minutes including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mr. Chairman. When we were here in November, we all had the same picture. The minister had gotten extra money for next year, but we all knew that we couldn't see exactly what was needed. We in the Chamber do not just go tens, let alone hundreds of millions to a department if that is not necessary. In the end, this debate led the Minister himself to say: I understood the Chamber correctly when Mr Pechtold said that he expected me to be a combative stance on that budget. What happened? 49 million for the police, for refugees. Very important. But actually, the conclusion is that we were exactly right at the time. There was €0 too much, there was €0 too little. That can't be true! It can't be true that we have to establish this now that we've been so many months and we're talking about a department like this with 100,000 people that billions of people are dealing with. That's what the Minister is trying to tell us. We have done our homework as an opposition: SGP, SP, D66, GroenLinks, all sorts of things together. We have listened carefully and said to those foremen: don't complain, what exactly is needed? 150 to 200 million for this year. We'd like that. I'm about to file a motion on behalf of six parties. I would, of course, like to answer my question about the vouchers. I still think that's really weird. The Minister did put the police to work, because if you drive off the Lange Vijverberg, there will be a drinking control. So everything is done immediately to get it from us. Holy shit! Yes, decisive minister. But that doesn't pay 40 million. I'd like an answer right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2016 there were budgetary deficits and implementation problems in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the case law and the NFI, thereby jeopardising the performance of the security tasks of those authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to add EUR 200 million in the supplementary budget to the budget of Security and Justice, which will enable the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the NFI to be repaired in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u299	Mr President, with that you have a majority under this motion, or at least sufficient support for the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u300	Mr. Chairman. This debate had a difficult start on a bad statement by the Minister of Finance, and it was difficult to get this minister to really stand in front of his people. The reason for this debate was a broken promise, the promise to the opposition to close gaps. That promise has not been fulfilled. In the end, however, this is not about political handshakes or long toes with the opposition, but about the rule of law, about citizens and about people who stand firm for our security. The promise to them is broken. That is why the motion has just been tabled by Mr Pechtold and that is why I warmly signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u301	Mr. Chairman. I cannot possibly say that I am starting with an enlightened mind on this second term, because the Minister is very good at euphemisms, but much less good at naming the problems that exist. I have said from the outset that it is a point when the Minister speaks in words which the Chamber knows through its own discussions that it is not really the case, but it is much worse. It is pulling and it is pushing, and even the question of whether a finance minister speaks derogatory words about the services on behalf of this minister cannot be answered. That is why the beginning of this debate was too long for the Minister, but it was typical of the way it went. I don't think that's a pretty picture. A cabinet is taking action. A cabinet stands for its services and must therefore stand up for these services as a whole and not describe them as beggars. There remain a number of other issues, such as the point I discussed with the Minister at the end. Where the minister always talks about additional investments in police, justice and other services, the Dutchman will notice at the end of the year that there have been steering measures with the police that were nothing but austerity. 50 million euros will be cut on the police this year, and the Dutchman will notice that. If the Minister is asked what that means, he says: I do not know and I do not, because that is up to the Chief Constable. It's like the chief of police is making up 50 million to cough up. The Minister was vague in the commitment that I want more concretely, that the Chamber has that insight for the discussion of the supplementary budget. On June 29th there is an AO about the police. That's a good time to discuss this. At the DA's office, there's a deficit of 14 million euros. I understand the Minister so much that he's gonna take care of that. If he's not, he should say so. So we know that there are millions of savings to be made there too. With all these words it remains that there is an irresponsible pressure on the judicial organisation and that this minister is responsible for that. For this reason, I have co-signed Mr Pechtold's motion, which seeks to help this Minister to get his services in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u302	Madam President. I thank the Minister for replying, but I had to remember some time ago, well, actually a long time ago: 5 April 1566 to be precise. Then a number of nobles offered a petition to Margaret of Parma, and it was said to her, "Do not be afraid, madam, they are mere beggars." Yet that was a serious plea to take, and it was not wise to put those people as beggars. I do not want to qualify the opposition in this Chamber directly as nobles, let us not exaggerate either, but the motion tabled by Mr Pechtold, which I have signed with him, is in fact a petition. That motion shows that the water is on the lips of the many services and that, after all the acid that has come from the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the police, it is really time to bring it up now and not wait until next year's budgets. That is why I wholeheartedly support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u303	Those beggars were the "gueux," the geuzen. That will certainly be known to a minister who comes from the Leiden area, where at some point the place was flooded. Warmond's castle was flooded to make sure that the geuzen finally got what they wanted. That's how the story goes on. Those beggars did win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u304	Exactly. So you saw that the negative eventually turned into a positive explanation. Maybe the Minister can also do an act of humiliation by ultimately resisting too many financial restrictions and working for something more air and space, which can make the whole country feel better. I see the Minister already has feelings for that. And I'd say we're just gonna go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman. The gaps in the budget are not closed. The police have to cut 50 million. On provincial roads there will be checks that are actually unnecessary. That's the result of tonight. This Minister has done very, very little. This minister dares not distance himself from the Minister of Finance. He's too weak for that. He wouldn't dare, and I'm very disappointed. Perhaps the Minister could answer the following question: does this have to do with the weak position of the Minister? The Minister has been through the dust four or five times and has had to apologize. Does that have to do with the fact that he has managed so little and has not dared to distance himself from his Minister of Finance? Perhaps the Minister could comment on that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u306	Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have had a strong debate with each other in which three organisations, in particular, passed through: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. I have listened carefully to the Minister and I have noticed that there is a minister standing up for these organisations. He does not look away from the concerns of course about funding, because we are talking about investments in the security chain. I also see a minister who clearly states: I am keeping that concern in order. That's what it's about when we talk about security in this country. I must say that I expect nothing less from this minister. I have another point. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Pechtold on the fines. I had that little debate to the best of my knowledge and ability, but when I got back to my seat, the spokesperson for traffic looked very closely at me and said, "Foort, you were just a little too legal in your words. I have tried to give a clear answer to Mr Pechtold's question as to whether the VVD wants to increase the fines in order to clean up the deficits. I thought I was being clear, but I should have said much more clearly: no, we don't; n-e-e.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u307	There were just such long stories and now there is a no, while the Minister has just announced that there is 40 million deficit. He finds 14 million in the way we're about to hear, and 26 million comes from traffic enforcement measures. That's also in the spring note. We've just heard that the number of road deaths on the provincial roads has been more than halved. That's incredible. That's incredible. Of course, the 40 million or 26 million on all these N-roads hardly gets together in six months. The Spring Paper clearly contains announcements that relate to either higher fines or more fines. This must be done through coupon quotas and so they send people out and say: go and take alcohol tests from MPs who still work after midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u308	The Minister has to take care of this. That's what the Minister was appointed for. It's as simple as that in the end. Your question in the previous debate was: are you going to raise fines? No, we're not going to raise fines to clear those deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u309	This tough talk is probably meant to reduce the feelings. You're gonna raise $26 million in fines. That seems strange to me, because the administrative costs are already much higher than what costs should be covered. We have already increased the fines by 1.1% on 1 January. Now at least 26 but actually 40 million have to come out in six months. This vague talk from the first term does not relate to the tough talk now and certainly not to what the Minister has just said and written in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u310	We're going through a little repetition here. I have tried in my second term to meet Mr Pechtold, perhaps even to reassure him by giving a much clearer answer to the question he has asked me. I thought I could do that again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. The PvdA doesn't think otherwise than in the first term. I can repeat it again, but that doesn't make much sense. I'd like to leave it at that. Perhaps one more comment: it is going to take another six months, but the money must be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u312	Mr. Chairman. This is a very disappointing debate in every respect, but a few things have become painfully clear. Firstly, it has become painfully clear that Minister Dijsselbloem is in charge and not this minister. First of all, this minister gets nothing for his services and then Minister Dijsselbloem indecently expresses himself about the begging of the police and the judiciary that he is a little done with. This minister is afraid to distance himself from that. So Minister Dijsselbloem is the boss. It is also clear that this minister is telling half-truths. We get the good news show, but the new cuts are all philosophic and not the issue. About the 15 million for the prosecutor who has disappeared, the minister says that none of this is going to happen; they can still invest it. There are other cuts to this, and the Minister must be honest about that. It is also clear that promises have been broken and that our trust has been embarrassed and that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Dutch Forensic Institute and the justice system continue to have major problems. It is also clear that the Minister is having his services cannibalized. The Minister says: there is no shortage, because we have agreed that they will solve it; they have to make reservations. That's not investing. It's hollowing out. That is a form of plunder policy that I can't imagine at all, which at least I don't feel at home with. Partly on behalf of the SP Group, a motion has been tabled asking the government to do what is necessary for the police, the public prosecutor, the NFI and the judiciary for this year. I can't imagine the Minister dissuading this motion. Nor can I imagine that the VVD and the PvdA will not support this motion on Tuesday. If that motion doesn't make it, we're gonna have a new problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u313	I have a question. The SP has debated and debated the substance of the matter, but under the motion I see the name of Mr Roemer. Did the SP just have all the judgment ready in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u314	I would like to repeat that I am replacing my group chairman because he cannot be here today because of circumstances. He would have done the debate. During the debate, a motion was tabled on my desk and, despite the circumstances, I had contact with my group chairman on whether he could co-sign that motion and indeed it did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u315	Excuse me, you spoke on behalf of Roemer. Then it's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u316	I spoke on my own behalf. I spoke on behalf of the SP in this debate this evening. It is not unusual for a Member of Parliament other than the spokesperson who is here to sign a motion. In this case, that was my group chairman, who himself faced the motion because he turned out to be able to assess it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u317	That's right. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u318	Mr. Chairman. The debate started hard, but we are going to a fairly smooth end. What I said when I was interrupting, and what I want to repeat here, is that the Minister really did not understand if he dismissed the beginning of the debate as a game of words. It's not that. This is about unity of government policy and above all about what you radiate as a cabinet. He chooses his words in such a way that he actually tries to defend the Minister of Finance instead of the people he stands for. I don't care if he says he's standing in front of his people, but he's radiating that, too. Then the Minister can shake no and in the meantime snap, or whatever he does, but that's what's going on. Then he just didn't understand. I would like to join with Mr Buma, who had an interesting debate on interruption, which highlighted the beautiful term 'control measures'. 50 million of steering measures would be found, which means that all kinds of money will be found in the police. That is almost magical and I am very curious about that. I would therefore like to join in the call for the Chamber to be associated with what kind of steering measures these are, please, in order to deal with the supplementary budget. Let me also say from this point of view that I think it is unwise to use the equalization reserve to close gaps in the budget in general. That's not what it's for. If the Minister wishes to do so, I recommend that he revise the whole system and funding of justice and consider whether everything should not be thrown into one big pile. If you can just draw from every pot at the moment you lack money, you might as well turn it into a big reserve. Finally, I would like to say that we have co-signed Mr Pechtold's motion with conviction. That's where I started my contribution. This is not a debate between the left and the right. This should not be a debate between the opposition and coalition. This is not an ideological debate on whether more or less money should be spent on security. This is about continuity. This is about good governance. You cannot say that next year there will be more money while there are now major problems within the security chain. Now you have to fix it. The opposition is prepared to do so. All we need now is the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u319	Madam President. To be honest, I found the debate rather embarrassing. In the first half hour of his term, the Minister of Security and Justice has shown that he is totally unfit for his duties; I cannot put it any other way. Three chamber motions were adopted last November for additional money to the entire security chain, but all three were not carried out. In itself, it is a sign and a licence of inability to deal with the people's representatives in this way. In addition, as some colleagues have already said, the Minister leaves his own people in the cold and in the cold by not removing the loaded word 'beggars' from his colleague in Finance. That's unheard of. I will not table a motion of censure against him every week, but let him be told that he has once again demonstrated that he is totally unfit for his duties. He is also unfit because he eventually wants to spend an extra 49 million euros on the police in the spring note and, as I said in my first term, 1.8 billion for asylum, just in 2016. 1.8 billion for asylum: from additional legal aid for asylum seekers up to and including normal assistance for asylum seekers, to healthcare expenditure for asylum seekers, as you know. It can't go on while the policemen and the people in the justice department have to take the money. Hence, on my part, a motion. Contrary to the motion tabled by my fellow Members, this is a covered motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to use EUR 250 million of the extra money spent on asylum reception in 2016 for investments in the security chain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-VI-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u320	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u321	Mr. Chairman. I thank the spokesmen for their second term contribution. I have listened carefully to the Chamber and I note that I have not been able to remove the concerns of the Chamber in all areas. I appreciate that this concern has been brought to the fore. For me, the policy that I used a year ago to ensure that my budget is made a structural contribution, as I managed to do with the 2016 budget, the 2016 Spring Note, and is expected to be the 2017 Millions Note and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u322	The Minister thinks it is an important debate. A lot of changes have been made and so on. We get all these fine words and then the Minister says that he will make a structural commitment to them. But not right now, not in 2016. Will the Minister comment on that image I made? It's a billion-dollar budget. It's 100,000 people who work there. In the autumn, in November, we found that there are problems that need to be addressed. We have not yet been able to determine exactly how much was involved. Today's conclusion is that 49 million is needed for the police when it comes to refugees, and otherwise it is exactly right. There's really no need for extras. How is that possible? Surely that is not possible if one example after another is given here? This afternoon, the minister had to say in a general consultation that 22 men are leaving the NFI. That is a small part of the reality that we then zoom in on. Then you can't say, "Wait till the fall"? At the AIVD we've already seen that people leave now, that they're going to apply, that they don't trust it and that they think it's being postponed? The minister should not rule after his period, he must rule tíjdens his period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u323	This comment by Mr Pechtold does not, of course, do justice to the commitment I have made over the past year. The problems have never been covered by me. With regard to the three organisations for which I have specific responsibility and which were the subject of this debate, I have taken very careful care to ensure that the problem is understood. I have put forward solutions to this with the support of the cabinet. I have already managed to achieve structural reinforcements for my budget at two times. And I assume that I will continue to make the same effort with the support of the Chamber for the Millions Note. That is what the Chamber can expect of me as the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u324	If money comes to the Millions note, I think that's fantastic, then we won't do anything bad, but it's election money if you push it out for you and not solve the problems now. We in the Chamber have a problem with that. The Minister cannot beat his chest for what he has achieved, because there are gaps in his budget now. There are problems right now, whether you're looking at the NFI or those fines or at the Rotterdam parquet with the 1,000 cases that have been there for over a year. Everywhere you lift something... I'm not even talking about all this stuff about receipts, about pictures, about professors, about all these incidents. As a major part of the opposition, we have said: we are not going to support a motion of censure, we are not going to follow that every time, because we want to place the weight on the 2016 Spring Paper. Then the final year in which this minister has his responsibility will begin. As a chamber, we believe that we need to solve the problems there. And now the Minister says: there is really no need for that; Mr Dijkhoff gets money because of the refugees, but I am actually very satisfied and everyone behind me must be very satisfied with that. There's absenteeism in the police, there's this, there's that, the opposition can give 100 examples, but the minister doesn't do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u325	Mr Pechtold asked for the debate to be repeated. As far as all these organisations are concerned, I have indicated exactly how I am in it, what steps I am taking and what studies I have carried out in order to overcome the problem and how I have taken the wishes and the organisations seriously. I work with the organizations to solve the problems. That has also been the whole line of the debate. Mr Pechtold asked for a more detailed explanation of the policy objectives and the direction of the fines to be resolved in the first period. On 21 April this year, Mr Schultz van Haegen informed the Chamber of the increase in the number of road deaths on provincial roads. The target was a maximum of 500 deaths by 2020. Unfortunately, in 2015, the number of road deaths increased to 621 and there were 51 more than in 2014. That led me to start that conversation with the provinces and the municipalities together to see what we can do to achieve the policy goal. It appears that this has an impact on my budget. I will explain to Mr Pechtold what is going on. A total solution has been found for an expected deficit of 40 million on fines. 14 million of these have been contributed by the Minister of Finance, the same minister who has already been sidelined a few times today. For 25 million additional measures are being taken, such as additional enforcement in dangerous areas and additional deployment of teams of traffic on infringements, where security makes this necessary. 1 million has been found in the regular indexing, which Mr Pechtold has already talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u326	I just think it's getting faint. I'm the chairman of the political group. I am going to hold a general debate with the Minister. You look into a case before that, and it just turns out it doesn't add up. In 2003, there were 249 people who were killed on provincial roads. That number has fallen and last year's exact figure......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So it's more than halved. Yes, the number of road deaths has indeed increased where we are allowed to drive 130 km/h. On those trajectories, it's even tripled to around 40. That talk about provincial roads doesn't add up! If it's a problem, it's not too fast, but it's a lack of a middle-breed. That I'm up to that level... but it's distraught that I have to bring the Minister's story back to nothing. No, the story is he's short $40 million on the fines and he's got to cover that hole this year. And we're probably not gonna do that where they're driving 130 km/h, but on the roads where the number of road deaths is falling and where a mid-term is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u327	We do this in all places where road safety makes it necessary. I now come to the two questions put by Mr Buma. His first question was when it became clear to the Court how the problem which the Public Prosecutor pointed out to me would be resolved. That's gonna be in the Navy's notebook. I'll be happy to answer for it. I will inform the Chamber, in accordance with Mr Buma's request, of the approach the Chief Constable has proposed for the 50 million. I will therefore pay attention to the agreements on how the Chief Constable relates to the Minister in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u328	When will that be notified to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u329	You asked if you could do that for the supplementary budget. Then it should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u330	Thank you very much. The $14 million cut on the state's attorney's office. Doesn't this year's Navy bill have to be cut by the state's attorney's office to get that 14 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u331	For that, I have to refer to the Navy's note. I am talking about this and the outcomes and consequences of those talks are reflected in the Navy's Note. It is, of course, my commitment not to cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u332	But that's very late in the year. The year's about over, and the DA's got nowhere to go. The same goes for this too, namely that we are halfway through the year and that the public prosecutor should know whether or not to cough up 14 million. The Minister, who stands before his people, will want that clear too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u333	Of course. That's why I'm doing these interviews intensively with the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u334	I would like to know what it is going to be or when it will come to the Chamber for the supplementary budget. The Autumn note will be December and then you only have a month left to cough up that 14 million if it turns out to be necessary. You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u335	No, the reflection of the conversations will take place in the Autumn Note. If there is any reason to report on it earlier, I will certainly not fail to do so. However, we must abide by the agreements on funding and the way in which we report on them. The commitment of me and the D.A. is clear: we need to resolve the problem that has been identified quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u336	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u337	One more question about this. 14 million doesn't seem that much, but it's a lot for the D.A. If the D.A. has to cough up 14 million, for example, steering measures, that's 14 million it has to cough up itself. If you don't, that club can keep his people in service. It's as simple as that. This problem is now being identified. Then we can discuss what we're going to do in a month, right? That's not such a crazy question, is it? This minister doesn't need until December, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u338	No, but I'd like to stick to the way we report to each other about the finances. The Navy's note is the right place for that. As I have already said, there will be no redundancies because this is not necessary. I would like to point out that 14 million is indeed a great deal for the Public Prosecutor's Office, although the total budget is over 400 million. However, given the structure in which Mr Buma was well introduced, that is a lot. That is why we need to speak about it properly, and I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u339	For our part, at least we shall come back to the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u340	I'd like to join in on this. What kind of weird business is this? We have not even dealt with the Spring paper yet. The supplementary budget laws have not yet been adopted, rejected, amended or whatever. So there's a regular time halfway through this year to look at the financial issues at the Public Prosecutor's Office. I know that this figure is already more than 14 million; I think that figure is already out of date. We are not even talking about the threat of austerity that emerged from this morning's news in De Telegraaf. So we have not even dealt with the Spring Note yet, and the Minister is talking about the Autumn Note. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u341	Those are the agreements we made with each other. That's how the system works. We have good agreements on this, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u342	That is how the system works, these are the agreements we have made: that is not an answer at all to the question. The agreements that exist are that the Chamber has budget rights. The Chamber may also amend a supplementary budget law. Those appointments are there. In my view, the Minister could also submit a letter of amendment to that effect. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, if he is not able to solve the problems currently facing the Public Prosecutor's Office within the Cabinet, he should simply say so. Then he says, "I don't have anything in store for the D.A.'s office anymore." Well, I guess that makes sense. But I don't hear the Minister say that either. So he is shielding again with possible extra money, and we are going to have another look at that at the end of the year. How can you deal with the organisations that are supposed to make the country safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u343	I don't screen with anything. It's very simple for me. The Public Prosecutor has informed me that there is an additional concern about 2016. Then it is also appropriate that I, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office, seek the solutions for this. That's what I'm talking to the D.A. about. I will report on this at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u344	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u345	I still do not get an answer to the question: why can this not be done by the supplementary budget law now before us in the House of Representatives, which can still be amended and on which a letter of amendment can be submitted? Why does the Minister refuse to solve the problem when the problem is now there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u346	I am not refusing to solve the problem, I am going to solve the problem, as Mr Van Nispen may expect me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u347	Speaking of agreements, the agreement with the opposition was that the Spring Note would look at the gaps and that we would then close those holes. Now the minister says, "I'm gonna go talk to the DA; if there are any holes, I'm gonna close them. That's supposed to happen now, isn't it? Why isn't it happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u348	That's because the Public Prosecutor's Office brought this point to my attention after the spring note was drawn up, and it's appropriate for me to look for a solution to that problem together with the State's Attorney's Office. That's what I'm gonna do. I had an exchange of views with the Chamber all evening. My job is to solve it and Mr Segers and the rest of the Chamber are to see if that solution is adequate. I will be accountable for this according to the regular methodology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u349	The minister's asking for extra time. That time was given in November, namely until now. Now it should be taken care of. It's not gonna be taken care of. The motion is still standing. It has been filed, and I am only more convinced of the need for that motion. Now the minister says, "This year, no people are getting kicked out of the state's attorney's office, fired?" Is he saying that people will not have to be able to do so, and that this will also apply to the police? Is that the lower limit the minister indicates here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u350	I'm gonna have to be careful about that. The Chamber knows that we have agreed on a total capacity of 49,800 people for the establishment plan of the national police. We are working towards this in every possible way, as Mr Segers knows. There won't be any more redundancies on top of that. The same applies to the reorganisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The state's attorney's office is reorganizing. There are people who leave the organisation because of the reorganisation, on the basis of the agreements made by the Public Prosecutor himself and the implementation it itself gave to it. On top of that, there will be no redundancies, as Mr Segers asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u351	I have another question on which we have already discussed it in the first period. I asked at the time if we could expect another letter of amendment. The Minister replied "no." But would it then be possible to at least get a note with the state of play of the discussions with the Public Prosecutor on how to deal with these setbacks before dealing with the supplementary budget Security and Justice? Then we have been informed about this at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u352	That's no objection at all. If I can already report that we have reached a solution, of course I am happy to do so. I am therefore happy to accept Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion. I have one more comment to make to Mr Van der Staaij. When the petition was offered by the nobles to Margaretha of Parma, it was indeed said: "ce ne sont que des gueux," so don't worry. But fortunately, at that time, one man was able to offer financial space to fight against the ruler. That was Willem van Oranje. We've just divided the roles a little bit. I would never claim the role of William of Orange for myself. I don't think that's appropriate either. I actually think that the only person eligible for this is the Minister of Finance. That is the one who, together with me, has ensured that extra funding is available. Although the performance may not yet be complete, I do believe that the Minister of Finance is on the right track in his role as William van Oranje.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u353	That is a request for a reply from Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u354	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat what Mr Pechtold said to me, namely: is he taking cover at the royal house now? My own interruption is as follows. Willem van Oranje has indeed played a wonderful role. But does the Minister agree with me that if the petition had been better answered, perhaps the Eighty Years' War could have been prevented? Does it not now prefer to prevent an eighty-year war with this parliament by responding favourably to Pechtold cum suis's plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u355	The debate is starting to take a completely different turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u356	But one thing is for sure, Mr President: I've been jokingly shouting that I'd like to work to get my predecessor Van Maanen's term of office. It was 27 years old. I suggest we limit that war to 27 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u357	Everybody's quiet...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u358	I will not respond to that last point, Mr President, otherwise I will say some ugly things, just as Dijsselbloem announced in the newspaper. The Minister has just promised that he will talk to the Public Prosecutor's Office and that he will come forward with a letter before dealing with the Spring Note. I would ask him to give a detailed overview of the cuts, including the sneaking ones, in relation to investment. I've asked this before, but the Minister didn't do it then. In this way, we get a fair picture of the financial situation. I would like to put a second question to that. I have stated that there is a deficit in the national police force of 134 million for 2016. I would ask the Minister to refute that in a letter and to discuss with the national police what exactly is needed in the national police. The Minister can take that into account in the letter to deal with the Spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u359	I'm in constant conversation with all the organizations, including the national police. The figures as I have mentioned are also the ones we assume from each other. I have promised Mr Buma that I will provide a supplementary letter. Where possible, I will also add the information requested by Mr Van Nispen. Then I'll get to the two motions. The motion-Pechtold c.s. in piece No. 94 calls on the government to add EUR 200 million to the budget for security and justice in the supplementary budget. Mr Wilders pointed out that this motion did not provide for cover for the requested. I also come to a different conclusion given the debate. I must therefore advise against this motion. The Wilders motion in part No. 95 calls on the government, of the extra money spent in 2016 on asylum reception, to use EUR 250 million for investments in the security chain. This motion does provide for cover, as Mr Wilders has already made clear. I must dissuade her because the resources he wants to use for the security chain are necessary for the asylum influx. I know that Mr Wilders does not think that is a good idea, but it is the reality that we need to take into account each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u360	So the problem is the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u361	No, because Mr Pechtold has also heard me say that, given the debate and everything we have said about it, I do not see any reason to support the considerations of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u362	We'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u363	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-10.u364	I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and those who have followed this debate in a different way. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
