ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u1	We will continue with the first term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Vice Presidents' Report was written by Juncker, in close collaboration with Tusk, Dijsselbloem, Draghi and Schulz. In this scripture of this gang of five, five self-appointed presidents, you can read how the Dutch people should be silenced and enslaved. We may vote for the European Parliament once every five years, but what will we vote for? Parliament can only say yes or no about pre-cooked legislative proposals from an unelected European Commission. The voter barely gets out of his seat to go to the ballot box to keep this political elite in the European saddle. The biggest nightmare of this elite is the growing support of the anti-EU parties, i.e. the populists, who do listen to the voters. These populists must be stopped at all costs. Something has been found on it; if you can't win the game, you change the rules of the game. In fact, the European Parliament, which is lame, has been given an instrument: the adaptation of the European electoral procedure. For lack of self-reflection, that is a gift from heaven. After all, the European Parliament has powers to reform its own elections. These powers have probably been given to them to keep up the appearance of democracy. Through these reforms, the European Parliament wants to influence the composition of candidates on the electoral lists and to send the final result by means of common constituencies and electoral thresholds. I can see the mood. In devious ways, EU-critical parties can be sidelined. Last year we saw how Front National and UKIP were sidelined by district systems. Apparently, this brings ideas to the European elite. They're panicking. They also have the courage to say that these reforms strengthen the democratic dimension of the European elections and increase the involvement of voters. However, the citizen is simply being cheated. Citizens may vote, but only as long as it fits into the EU project. I'll get back to the gang of five's report. After economic union and monetary union with which our guilder was taken away, political union awaits us. This political union must support monetary union, which is close to collapse. Very cleverly, the report does not describe the "transfer" of sovereignty, but rather the "sharing" of sovereignty with common institutions. How can a country share sovereignty? Sovereignty implies full control. Sharing sovereignty is total talk. The common public institutions would already be largely ready to take over these sovereign tasks. This means that a political coup is under way, so that unelected EU leaders will decide even more about our national budgets and our economic policies. Economic structures and social security systems would then be supposedly modernised. However, this has nothing to do with modernisation. We are simply going back to the totalitarian system of the GDR, where people believed in a centrally-managed, makeable society, where democracy was only difficult and the citizens became equally poor. Wages will be equalized and will therefore be reduced. Social security will be stripped, just like the citizen himself. And as if all of this were not enough, the EU, with Rutte II's cabinet in the wake, is opening its borders wide open, so that hopeless economic migrants march into Europe, encouraged by Chancellor Merkel, who grew up in the GDR. According to the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, migration flows generate additional economic growth, as governments have to spend more. But what do they spend? They're spending taxpayers' money! It's true that all these migrants consume. They all have to eat, live and see a doctor. But who's gonna pay for all that? The present and past show that a large proportion of these migrants depend on benefits. And it keeps going on and on. With hundreds of thousands of people they enter, looking for the meat jars of North-West Europe, which are filled by working citizens. The retirement age of those working citizens is linked to life expectancy. Henk and Ingrid will have to buffle until they fall down. Every sane person understands that open borders and social security do not go hand in hand. Doesn't the government understand this or doesn't she want to get it? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In the 2016 Budget, an estimate was made of 26,000 asylum seekers for this year. This estimate was misleading. Already on 16 September 2015, so even for the General Political Reviews in the Lower House, the Prime Minister was aware of a completely different forecast: 93.000 asylum seekers per year, for five years. In total, these are 465,000 economic refugees, all of whom are going to use our social and social facilities. My fellow senator Van Strien also raised this too low assessment at the General Reviews in November 2015. He was then hoarded away, knowing he was right. The Minister of Finance did not hesitate to keep the real figures under review, as did the Prime Minister. Would it be government policy? Is this the only thing that binds the coalition partners? I would like to know from the Minister what he calls it when things are kept under the hat in this way. Is this just "lie," is it "correctly informing the Chamber" or is there an orwellian euphemism for this too? The Prime Minister kept the figures under wraps because he sat with his fingers between the Turkish revolving door. The European Union has put its fate in the hands of the Turkish dictator Erdogan by making a dramatic bad agreement. The EU is going to pay EUR 3 billion to improve the living conditions of Syrian refugees in Turkey. If we run out of money, Europe will just pay up. So that's a carte blanche. How the Prime Minister can call this "good deal" is a complete mystery. If someone makes such a deal in business, they will be fired immediately. As if all this were not enough, the Prime Minister does not rule out such deals with Jordan and Lebanon. But, yes, perhaps there is a nice European job for him on the horizon. That could explain a few things. Can the Minister say whether a ceiling has been agreed for the EU contribution to Turkey on the agreement? I am talking about the agreement that was concluded in November 2015. I'd like to receive a response. This agreement will allow Turks to travel visa-free to EU Member States at least from October 2016. They can then get used to when Turkey becomes a member of the European family. The negotiations on Turkey's EU accession will also be restarted. Or did they never stop? With his cap in his hand, the Prime Minister can have lunch with the Turkish Prime Minister at the Catshuis. Then he was made a fool of by Erdogan on Turkish television, who said that the time could come for Turkey to open the gates to Europe for migrants. That will be something if Islamic Turkey actually joins the EU. Turkey has a rapidly growing population, which already knows almost 80 million people. Turkey can then just become the largest country in the European Union. I can tell you on a note that Erdogan really doesn't get any more modest. Either Erdogan opens the borders to Europe to millions of economic refugees from Islamic countries, or Europe has to allow 80 million Turks to travel visa-free Europe. The choice is: even more Islam or even more Islam. And, Mr. President, don't tell yourself there's such a thing as moderate Islam. To quote Erdogan once again: there is no moderate or non-moderate Islam, Islam is Islam and that is it. They are the words of an excellent expert in this matter. Or is Erdogan lying? I'd like a response from the Minister. Meanwhile, Turkey is ripping open the back door by diligently building a network of mosques. Mosques that Erdogan calls "our barracks" and believers "our soldiers." In the Netherlands, these mosques receive financial resources from the Turkish government via Diyanet. Diyanet pays and sends imams to mosques within the EU as of October 2016 visa-free or perhaps as of June this year. It is not difficult to imagine what message these imams are sent with, thinking of the saying "whose bread one eats, his word one speaks." These forward sent imams prepare the Islamic cause and will spread the bed for millions of Muslims on their way. Erdogan's plan is not to expand the EU with Turkey but to expand Turkey with the EU. Due to the lack of backbone and leadership of the European elite, the restoration of the great Ottoman Empire is simply thrown into the Turkish lap. It is therefore not surprising that the unruly EU cracks in its joints. The German government expects 3.6 million migrants by 2020. That's over half a million fortune seekers a year. This year alone, 110,000 migrants have arrived in Europe in two months. Because of the lack of European direction, there are some national parliaments that are taking control of themselves. They see the disruptive effects of these migrants' tsunami. fences are being built, certain population groups are being banned and daily quotas are being set for asylum applications. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán even wants to hear the voice of the Hungarian people through a referendum on the European plan for the distribution of refugees between Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u3	I thought I was gonna take it in a nutshell: because of a lack of European direction. What does Mrs Faber mean by that and what should that direction have been like in her opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u4	By lack of direction, I mean lack of leadership. 'Cause they're not doing anything. They're scared. They're afraid to take any steps. They're on Erdogan's leash. They put our fate in his hands. He's smiling like hell. First, the Turks come with a request for 3 billion. Now they're talking about 6 billion. First it was about visa-free travel from October and now it's about June. So it's just being stretched very slowly and we're not afraid to say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u5	You say that there is bad negotiation, but those negotiations do precede something, namely that you take a common position. Do I hear you say that the latter should happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u6	No, you do not hear me say that, because the PVV has nothing with the European Union in its present form. You can already see that Europe is cracking. The countries that still have leaders simply see that things are not going well and that they need to do something. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The PVV says enough is enough. The EU is a failure. Even the original objective, namely economic cooperation, is undermined by the unmanageable flow of migrants that is disrupting the whole of the EU. The European elite is not in a position to put things right. The Rutte cabinet talks, talks and talks and goes blind after the EU and shudders for Erdogan. We've got to move the helm around. It is time we put the importance of the Netherlands back on top. It is time for us to think from our own strength and take matters into our own hands. We should not be afraid of threats that if we leave the EU, the lights will go out. Thanks to the geographical location of the Netherlands, our innovation and our desire to work, we are the gateway of the world to Europe and we will continue to be so. The light really goes out when we walk along the leash of the gang of five and then let ourselves be delivered to the scourge of Islam. Only then will we really get lost in the dark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. "This is the first time in my conscious experience of European cooperation that I think: it could really end." That's what our Dutch top European Frans Timmermans said last November. And it was the first time in my conscious experience that I heard him speak of Europe so distressedly. After all, we know him as a cheerful French, as friendly and as optimistic, especially when it comes to Europe. But French clearly has the blues. Europe hasn't had much luck lately either. Do you remember, Mr President, that we were in Brussels a few weeks ago for the Stability Economic Coordination and Governance Conference, formerly known as the Article 13 conference, where you were a hostess but where fellow host Martin Schulz showed such a heavy spirit on behalf of the European Parliament? The direct cause for his gloomy speech that evening was the conversation he had earlier that day with Cameron about an approaching Brexit or at least the negotiations to prevent that. It gave a slightly uncomfortable feeling at the start of an otherwise successful conference under the Dutch Presidency, partly led by colleague and D66 spokesperson Backer. But Schulz wasn't just in his pessimistic view. If the first Vice-President of the European Commission fears that European cooperation can really end, then that will be well founded. After all, he must be able to know it and is also appointed to prevent it. But what exactly is the great fear? Is the EU still on the euro? Yesterday's newspaper picked up the grexit scenario again. Or does it touch on macroeconomic imbalances? Is it the EU's beaches that are at risk if we do not take the Five Presidents' Report sufficiently seriously and we do not accept its recommendations? Or is it perhaps due to the external security risks at our European external borders? Is it due to the extra flow of refugees from Syria partly due to our bombs, on top of the flow of simply desperate refugees for economic misery in the world? Or is it rather the internal security risks arising from terrorism? Is it perhaps due to the policy response to all these security risks, the piece by piece closure of our internal borders and the mortification of Schengen or the aborting of return or of security measures with fundamental values in Europe such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights? Is the growth of nationalism, xenophobia and extremism in various forms threatening Europe at its core? Or is a possible Brexit endangering European peace? Or does the Dutch Ukraine referendum plunge us into a continental crisis that will destabilise Europe, as the President of the European Commission Juncker tells us? Following Commissioner Timmermans, Europe is in a "perfect storm." In the news analyses of this perfect storm you will usually find the Brexit, the refugee crisis, the ever dormant euro crisis and the threatening grexit and security risks as the four riders of the approaching Apocalypse. These are also themes where extra summits are organized around which our ministers and sometimes heads of government have broken their heads until deep into the evening or night. Is it not cynical that thousands of refugees had already drowned before we started talking about a top-level refugee crisis, that it was only Chefsache when refugees had found a route through Greece on a large scale to Western Europe and not when large numbers of refugees in southern Italy had been washed up before, that the first thing to do was to close internal borders and the next threat of higher economic costs before perhaps let us hope for a common solution? I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. In terms of internal security, there is even moderate cooperation. I read in the newspapers mainly about how different Member States, and even their own High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, were listening to each other, and perhaps still do. With such distrust, a genuine common foreign and security policy is still a long way away. The Member States mainly go their own way and one goes beyond the other. What is the Minister's assessment of the development of security risks within the European Union? Have the security risks been in or out of Paris? Will spot checks on internal borders help internal security? What does the Minister think of the extension of the emergency situation in France? How does he view Amnesty International's criticism of the frequent violation of human rights in France in this regard? Would he want to sacrifice human rights in the Netherlands in the interests of greater collective security? Or do the terrorists who have it on our Western values not actually win a little bit? How much state of law, democracy and human rights can be sacrificed in the interests of security within Europe? If internal security is primarily the territory of Member States themselves, to what extent are the protection of the rule of law, democracy and human rights vis-à-vis internal security a European domain? What exactly is our real European constitution, our Bill of Rights, the European Treaty on Human Rights, the ECHR? How does the Minister assess the pursuit of an authoritarian state by Viktor Orbán in Hungary, and any copying of it in Poland? And how does he assess, more generally, the state of the rule of law, democracy, freedom of association and, above all, the freedom of the press in the European Member States that joined in 2004? What does he think of the grip of oligarchs on many of these countries? On the external security of Europe and on European foreign and security policy, this Chamber has a detailed discussion in its planning. In relation to the extremely topical refugee crisis, I still have some urgent questions. Can we look away from Turkish violence against the Kurds, against the rule of law and against freedom of the press, if we also urgently need Turkey to keep refugees outside Europe? The day after the decision of the PvdA to join the international coalition that is also allowed to bomb Syria, there was a cartoon in the newspaper with a sky full of bombs towards Syria and a sea full of boats with refugees in the other direction. The next day there was a big headline in the newspaper: The Netherlands wants to send refugees back to Turkey by returning ferry. The Samsom plan was born. Apparently not the bombs are the problem, but the refugees. It's not about whether or not they find a safe one; it's about whether or not they want to stay there. If Turkey can arrange that, we will look the other way if Turkey is not targeting IS, but especially the Kurds in Syria, and in the meantime taking out some other internal opposition. What's the next change? Further steps in the negotiations on Turkish accession to the EU? Does the Minister know what was promised to Turkey last night? Senator Knapen mentioned the tension between enlargement and integration of the European Union. With so many problems within the current borders of the EU, including the rule of law, corruption, democracy and human rights, would it be wise to consider enlargement of the EU, whether in the short term or in the longer term, especially in those countries where it is much worse in these areas than in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u8	Is Mr Elzinga going to speak about Frontex and the strengthening of the external borders, or is this the end of the matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u9	I'm not talking specifically about Frontex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u10	In this context, I would like to ask him a question, because in fact he is setting out a moral dilemma: should you make agreements with a Turkish regime while human rights are being violated? You're doing this because there's a humanitarian disaster going on in Europe. Mr Elzinga does not answer the question, but he asks the question. It is also a difficult moral dilemma, but I also have a moral dilemma. A motion has been tabled across the street to strengthen Frontex. One of Mr Elzinga's fellow party members indicated that the operative part was extremely sympathetic, but the motion could not be supported because there was a transfer of sovereignty to the Frontex committee. Since then, a few weeks ago, there has been a letter from the Minister explaining questions from GroenLinks about what the meaning and interpretation of this is. There is also an opinion from the International Affairs Advisory Council. With a clear council decision, this could indeed be legitimised. Does Mr Elzinga still think that, in this ethical dilemma, it should not be chosen to make money available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr Backer asks if I would still like that. I did not deal with that motion in that debate. We come to an independent assessment. We do not have so many policy debates with the government on this either. It depends on the motivation and the way in which it is presented, but then it may be justified. Mr Backer spoke about all the moral dilemmas in the debate on refugees. However, I wonder at first what we are doing to tackle the refugee problem at source. Many of our interventions in the region where it is now restless have a counterproductive effect rather than the intended effect. That was certainly the case in the past, but that is also the case now. After all, the throwing of bombs on Syria, however good it may be intended to do so, is mainly the result of many new refugees. The international community has an obligation to treat refugees who come to Europe on the basis of the asylum treaty in a decent manner. We shouldn't be cramped trying to keep everyone out. That doesn't change the fact that if you lift internal borders, you have to guard the external borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u12	The debate is now being widened so much that the issue I was actually concerned with is whether there is money available for Frontex because it is necessary, is a little out of the picture. Perhaps we will return to that point at another time. I think it will be soon, because this is, of course, also part of the agreement with Turkey. Are there money and capacity available to do this? When it comes to ethical dilemmas, is it not more important that Europe does this together than the abstract understanding of sovereignty that would prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u13	The issue of refugees is an issue that we need to discuss at European level and, therefore, to resolve at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u14	In order to clear up a little misunderstanding, I would like to ask the following question. Mr Elzinga spoke about the tension between expanding and deepening. In my contribution, I referred to the enlargements we have had so far: with the central European countries and, more importantly, with the southern European countries, Cyprus and so on. Mr Elzinga made the link between expanding and deepening as if I would have talked about, for example, 'he did not mention the name 'Ukraine'. That's not what I was talking about. I would just like to point out that this was not meant to happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u15	I certainly did not hear Mr Knapen say that. I referred to Mr Knapen's words on the tension between enlargement and deepening, as we have experienced on the basis of our experience, and whether we should not want to learn lessons for the future and for the current discussions on whether or not to expand. I didn't want to put words in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u16	I hear Mr Elzinga say a lot about Turkey. We share many of the problems that the SP has with Turkey. But do I now get the right impression that he wants to tackle the refugee problem without involving Turkey or concluding agreements with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u17	I don't think so. With regard to the refugee issue, first of all, you have to ask where the refugees come from and why people want to flee. If you look at the causes, you can see that the whole region is a powder keg. Many foreign parties have interfered in this. In general, this has not improved. Turkey is also a party to this. Turkey is certainly needed in the region to find political solutions to the problems. As far as the refugee issue is concerned, we must, of course, consult with all parties, but we cannot say that we are giving Turkey a whole bunch of money and that country will solve our refugee problem. I shall come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u18	I'll just wait and see. Maybe I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. I wondered whether it would be wise to think about enlargement in the short or long term, especially with countries where human rights and the rule of law are poor. I was thinking of Turkey but also of Ukraine; Mr Knapen already recommended it. In parts of Ukraine armed rebels are in charge. The violence of these rebels and the army, over and over, has already killed thousands of people. Opposition parties are prohibited there by decree. Critical foreign parliamentarians are denied access to the country. Human rights violations are not independently investigated there. Partly because of self-censorship even freedom of the press exists there de facto hardly anymore. According to Transparency International, it is much more corrupt than the most corrupt EU country at the moment. So it doesn't seem wise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u20	The following is about the imaging. In Ukraine, a civil war would rage. I would like to remind you that Crimea is occupied by a foreign power, namely Russia, and that Russian troops are fighting on a large scale in Eastern Ukraine. That has little to do with civil war but everything to do with foreign intervention. That is the major problem that Ukraine is currently facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u21	To some extent, it is true that Russia has annexed Crimea, contrary to any international treaty. It is also true that Russia is interfering in Ukraine's internal affairs, but at the same time Ukrainian rebels and the government army are fighting each other. It's cost a lot of people their lives. Unfortunately, civilian casualties have also been caused by the army's bombing of rebels in the East.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u22	I am trying to understand Mr Elzinga's position on Ukraine and the party he is a member of. Why is this subject being made so big? If I understand correctly, Mr Kox voted in favour of the association agreement with Moldova. Or am I wrong? I just heard he voted against it. What about the Treaty with Georgia? I hear that the SP Group has also voted against it. The reasoning behind this, if I have understood correctly, is that these are countries with which the European Union does not want to associate itself to the extent suggested by the Association Treaty. It is a mixed treaty, so 80% of the treaty is about the things that are already going on in the area of economics. These things, however, are surrounded by an edge of conditions in the field of the rule of law. If you assume that this association agreement does not radically change the shape of Ukraine, that is not what association agreements are for, and they cannot do that either, but that it may be able to make a small contribution to a little more rule of law, to a little more fight against corruption and to a little better listing on the Transparency International list, what is ultimately the big objection to something relatively small like an association agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u23	I will come back to that later, but I would like to fight...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u24	I would be happy to wait, otherwise I would confuse Mr Elzinga's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u25	In response to Mr Knapen's interruption, I can say the following. First of all, it is a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area. So it is more than just a free trade agreement. It goes way beyond that. The Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Areas with Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia go even further than the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which we discussed last year. There are a lot of objections to the notorious TTIP. The agreements even go so far as to make these countries a de facto part of the European internal market without being allowed to join the EU. So we're not giving them the right to vote, but they're going to be a full member of the single market. So it goes far beyond just a free trade agreement. In all areas, such as trade in goods, trade in services and public procurement, the whole European single market acquis should apply. So it really becomes part of the European market. It seems to us extremely unwise that this applies to a country where, unfortunately, this has not yet been enforced by rules, a country where culture is so corrupt in every respect that all the countries that are already members of the EU can only learn a lot from it in a negative way. This is just about the trading part. That part is indeed a large part of the agreement, but it is more than just a trade agreement. Does it make the country any better? Unfortunately, such a treaty does not guarantee that at all. Those countries that were admitted to the European Union in 2004 went ahead for that time when admission was still envisaged, ahead of time in the field of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. However, over the last few years, and especially recently, we have seen a very strong movement in the opposite direction. Unfortunately, such a treaty does not guarantee anything in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u26	Treaties are not guarantees. That's why they're called "treaties" and not "guarantees." The Association Treaty provides for a certain procedure for, for example, the procurement of a bridge. You're gonna have to run the books properly. You have to show them you're competing. That won't always work. Sometimes things go wrong. But what is the big objection to agreeing in such a treaty that, for example, you have to tender in an orderly manner? That's what people learn from. That's how they hit their heads. I imagine Mr Elzinga does not think it will work. But what is the real objection to a framework that can help with this kind of thing and that can promote it? At worst, it is not promoted now but perhaps a few years later. What is the essential objection to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u27	There is no objection to the framework, even though we do not see any guarantees in this regard. If we were to help the framework, there would be little opposition. However, there are other major objections to this treaty. I will come back to that in a moment, at the place where I have it in my speech. I do not think it would be wise to extend the EU in the long term, even if we do not yet have membership and voting rights, but are part of the EU in any other way. The problem in all different forms is that the European Union is not a homogeneous unit. I am no longer talking about Ukraine, but I have arrived at the current problems of the European Union. Nor is the Netherlands a homogeneous unit, I say to Mr Backer. He said that we were also a very different country with 15 million people at the time. That is certainly the case, but the European Union is still slightly less homogeneous than the Netherlands. There are not only great cultural differences between Eastern and Western Europe and between northern and southern Europe, which sometimes also express themselves in political preferences. The euro crisis has also clearly shown significant differences in economic and political interests between northern and southern Europe. The refugee crisis and European migration and refugee policy not only divide Europe into entry and destination countries, but also very pronounced in Visegrád countries on the one hand and Western Europe on the other. More generally, views on the rule of law increasingly separate Eastern Europe and Western Europe. There is a growing EU-critical attitude among the population, but also among many political parties. We are seeing a growth of nationalist movements and parties especially on the right side of the political spectrum. Above all, they want less European cooperation. On the left-hand side of the political spectrum, the parties who reject the austerity mantra imposed by Brussels are clearly growing. I am thinking of Syria in Greece, Podemos in Spain, Bloco in Portugal, Sinn Fein in Ireland and of course the SP in the Netherlands. They, and so do we, want a different kind of cooperation. In particular, large businesses continue to see and propagate the benefits of a large market, but an ever smaller upper class keeps the feeling of taking advantage of it. Not only the middle class, but also the political center resembles its return. Income inequality within economically developed countries, including most European countries, has not been on average as high as it is today over the past 50 years. The trend towards growing inequality has accelerated since the crisis. Public services and equal access to these services are under pressure in many countries. The EU has knowingly increased this division, on the one hand through above-imposed privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation by an ideologically motivated "big job to the market," where the right of the strongest counts, but on the other hand, unfortunately, by interfering in the wrong way. The EU is seeking and taking up an increasing mandate for European intervention policy, including in the economic and social fields. Under the pretext of necessity, an economic governance has been established, without a fundamental debate on political desirability. Now Brussels also wants to run the social domain more and more. More and more powers are being transferred, sometimes openly and sometimes secretly, from the national political domain to Brussels, but also from the parliamentary arena to the executive, the European Commission, the finance ministers in the Ecofin and the Eurogroup, to the management of the ESM, the ESB, and the troika. In each crisis, the reflex is: more European cooperation, closer coordination. That's gotta help us. As Juncker says: more Europe in the Union, more Union in Europe. Or as our Commissioner Timmermans advocates: more European brotherhood. In theory, this is not a crazy idea for the problems that are often cross-border, but the impact of this cooperation is increasingly having consequences which the population sees as extremely undesirable and which gives a growing proportion of the population an increasing feeling of being sidelined without any influence. Or as Professor Scharpf said at an expert meeting on the Five Presidents' Report in our committee: Europe suffers from a lack of both input and output legitimacy. I believe that is the most important gap in Europe. European policy makers, both in Brussels and in the national capitals, are increasingly seeking solutions in an ever closer union, while citizens increasingly feel ignored, do not see democratic legitimacy, but are given the bill of the policy. What does the Dutch government think of this ever closer union? I thought that the government, in response to the Five Presidents' Report, was not a warm advocate, but in the meantime, in the negotiations on the package with the United Kingdom, this ever closer union has just been reconfirmed. The ever closer union does not apply to the UK, as has been agreed, but also to all other Member States on the continent. What exactly is that about? Does the government support this ever deeper European integration and what does that mean for the Dutch position in relation to the transfer of powers to Brussels, now and in the future? How does the Minister feel about the Five Presidents' Report, which was co-written by our Minister of Finance? Does the Dutch Government share the view that integration should take place on four fronts and that, in addition to monetary union, economic union, fiscal union and political union are necessary? Is the Minister also in favour of the necessary changes to the Treaty and, in what time, does he suspect that negotiations on a new treaty are in the pipeline? Will the treaty amendment envisaged by the UK be able to be used for elements of this fiscal and political union? I shall now return briefly to 2005 and then to the referendum in the Netherlands. That was, like the British referendum, about the desirability of an ever closer union. Despite a very clear "no" to a European superstate in 2005, a number of years later, with another cover around it, 90% of which the Netherlands had said no to was introduced through the Treaty of Lisbon. The ever closer union has been accelerated by the crisis. In part, the current referendum in the Netherlands, the referendum on 6 April, is also about this. Especially for some of the initiators, ignoring the outcome of the previous referendum is an important incentive. For the SP, it is mainly a test case for the consultative referendum. Democracy is not for scared people. That's what Mr Knapen said this morning. This referendum is therefore not something to be afraid of. Of course, my party will draw the potential voters' attention to our vision, as we have also expressed in Parliament. We will campaign against the Treaty, as we have argued against the Treaty in this Chamber and in the House of Representatives. There are many arguments, but I will repeat my three main arguments. In our view, the treaty is not good for stability in the country. It has further sharpened the contradictions within Ukraine. The ratification of the Treaty will further strengthen these contradictions and intensify tensions between the EU and Russia. In our view, this is not in the interests of Europe and certainly not in the interests of Ukraine and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mr Elzinga says that the Treaty has already strengthened tensions in Ukraine. Can he give examples of what that causality proves? How can these tensions be attributed to the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u29	When the previous president refused to sign the treaty, popular rage arose in a part of Ukraine. On that basis he fled, some say. Another reading is that there has been a coup, or a coup. In any case, the signature was finally signed by a temporarily installed government before there were any new elections. Furthermore, we can read history on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u30	The previous president negotiated nicely until he came to our heavy pressure from Russia. When, to put it in peasant terms, the milk went up, it turned out that the population didn't steal it. That's understandable when you see the interests behind it. This has nothing to do with tensions caused by this treaty in Ukraine. It's geopolitical tensions caused by Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u31	There are certainly geopolitical tensions in the game. As the EU drew Ukraine with this treaty, so did Russia. The previous president leaned more towards one side, the current president looks more the other way, although at first they both looked mainly at their own economic gain. The population is divided over it. In the east, the population is much more oriented, culturally, but also economically, in trade, on Russia, while a large part of the population in the west is historically much more oriented towards Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u32	Ukraine as a whole was oriented towards Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u33	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u34	There was never a problem with Russia. There were hardly any sentiments against Russia until Russia got involved. Russia had quite a hand in annexing Crimea and then launching a war in the Dombas. Read the polls now: over 90% of Ukraine supports that treaty, including in that area. If there's ever been an anti-Russian mood, thank Putin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u35	Putin certainly hasn't made himself more popular. He wasn't popular before, but there was a lot of trade with the Russians. A lot of people in the east have a good connection with the Russians on the other side of the border. I do wonder why, if this is such an important debate for Mr Schaap, the VVD did not participate in the debate here on the association agreement. We then had a good substantive debate on the treaty. There have been exchanges of arguments as to why we were against it. Now the people have the floor in the referendum. We shall then explain our views. Let me briefly outline our other two main arguments. It is a neoliberal treaty, a so-called deep and comprehensive free trade treaty, which is going to cost a lot of jobs, especially in Ukraine. European industry is, of course, ready to take over a market of 43 million consumers, but it is not economically very relevant for Europe, because Ukraine's economy is smaller than that of North Holland. Ukraine will need a lot of financial support, so much is certain. Of course, this can be done without EU membership, without a vote and without this association agreement. Even without the treaty, we can help Ukraine and its people. As I said before, the country is by far the most corrupt country in Europe. You can't do business there without your dirty hands. Integration into the European market entails the risk of contamination in particular. That is an important argument why the EU and the internal market should not want to start doing so. All in all, the SP thinks it is three times better to vote against the agreement. It is better for the people of Ukraine, it is better for the Dutch people and it is better for European cooperation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr Elzinga said that the agreement was in a neoliberal context and he said earlier that the European Union stands for cold globalisation. That's why you should distance yourself from it. Is it also possible for Mr Elzinga to reverse that reasoning? Suppose parties like Mr Elzinga are doing extremely well in the Netherlands and other countries and say that they together with some other parties form a large majority enough to give them a more social democratic profile to European societies. Is the argument still that it cannot be because it comes from Brussels or from the EU? Or is it simply that the majority in charge of the matter does not like Mr Elzinga? Is it a matter of: because I do not like the majority in The Hague, am I against the Netherlands? No, you're gonna fight till you get a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u37	This is a very interesting discussion. Yes and no. I partly agree with Mr Knapen. Yes, we would like to rebuild Europe with many more governments of another political signature. Yes, you can be very good for more European cooperation in a number of areas. But the SP may have been the only party from the Maastricht Treaty to be very consistent: from that moment on, a wrong turn has been taken. Every time we say, guys, don't get muddy on that turn. If you see that it's going wrong again, you shouldn't push harder and move on with the integration. A number of things have been fundamentally misorganised. We have often talked about this in General Financial Reviews and in debates on the euro crisis. They are really looming errors, they are really structural errors in the European construction. A number of things in European cooperation, including the budgetary arrangements and the debt ceiling, are wrong. They can be changed, but within the current treaty they are not easy to adjust with a different colour from the European Commission. We would very much like a different direction for Europe. Then it would look different. But this requires more than a change in the colour of European politicians in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u38	I have a point about imaging. We have had the fundamental discussion on the neoliberal aspect. Last week we were both in Brussels. That's always interesting, because then you can collect some more information. The implementation of the country-specific recommendations from Coreper in 2014 is a rather staggering state. At 6% there is full progress, at 45% there is some progress..................................................................................................................................................................... The European structure is not good, but one cannot argue in reverse that the cause of the poor economic performance lies in the recommendations of the European Commission or the European Council. They have had relatively little effect. What is Mr Elzinga's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u39	In this way we run the risk of getting back into ideological discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u40	Keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u41	I'm gonna try. I think both can do just fine. Very wrong policy recommendations can still have a very negative effect even if they are partially or poorly implemented. The fact that the European Union and the euro area are doing much worse than most Western, developed and non-euro countries within the EU. Developed countries outside the EU have been scrambled out of the crisis faster and easier than the EU in recent years. I believe that this has everything to do with the construction of the EU and the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u42	We are now entering into a debate of faith, and we should not have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u43	I am indeed not a believer of this order. It is time to stop the one-sided focus on the European Union as a body for European cooperation. Europe is bigger than the European Union. Mr Schrijver also pointed out that the European Union does not need to be decisive for cooperation between all 49 European countries. There are more partnerships that I think we are not making enough use of, precisely because of this one-sided focus on the European Union. I refer to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is doing important work, in particular through ground observations, in the context of the protection of peace and security on our continent. It remains inconceivable that we should allow the OSCE staff to do this extremely risky work without any proper international legal protection. The Dutch parliamentary delegation in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has so far called for this protection to be improved without any success. This could well be done by giving the OSCE a legal title. I understand that the United States and the Russian Federation are mostly opposed to this. What is the Dutch government doing to break that resistance and to better protect our people on the ground? I also mention the Council of Europe, Europe's oldest and widest treaty organisation, based on the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Social Charter and many other extremely important conventions. My party has long argued for less EU and more Council of Europe, including in the financial sense. It remains bizarre that the European Union spends more per day and has more resources than the Council of Europe in a whole year. The Netherlands is not the worst contributor, but overall we undress the Council of Europe more and more, while we continue to babble the European Union. It is a shame to leave the organisation in which all European countries, including Belarus soon, to their fate. In a country such as Ukraine, where the Council of Europe has its greatest mission, good work is being done to improve the rule of law and reduce corruption. Can the Minister indicate how he assesses the possibilities of the Council of Europe and whether the Dutch Government supports the call by the Parliamentary Assembly, among others, to convene a new summit of Heads of State or Government in the near future to take decisions on the future of the Council? The previous summit was in Warsaw in 2005. It is high time to organise a new one, our group believes. With this plea for more European cooperation, I will conclude my speech in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. Before the Dutch Presidency began, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister stressed that it would not be an ambitious Presidency. Frankly, I do not understand such a motto. Is ambition a dirty word? Why wouldn't you want to make as much of it as possible? We know that after us, the Presidents have more difficulty in terms of capacity and experience. In any case, there is no room for ambition for this six months. In many areas, the EU is being tested. In this context, I will address the refugee policy and the related problems with Schengen, two referendums that concern us, the Brexit and Ukraine, and the rule of law within and outside the Union. I shall now turn briefly to some of the financial aspects of Europe and, last but not least, to the climate. Mr President, dealing with refugees is the litmus test for the European Union. We are heading for a failure and the pressing question is therefore what the Netherlands, as President, is doing to reach a European solution, based on solidarity and the right to asylum. What I now see in particular is for every country to withdraw behind its borders and take measures to prevent asylum seekers from knocking in that country. Austria has set a daily quota and requires valid identity papers, a problem for refugees anyway; Denmark takes away their possessions and Austria and Germany keep them waiting for years for family reunification. Our government also hopes to discourage refugees with longer waiting times. The rights and interests of refugees in our countries are being put at risk in order to deter other refugees. The race to the bottom of asylum standards is therefore in full swing, whereas the common asylum policy was intended to stop that race. The attitude of EU Member States is full of contradictions: the redistribution arrangements are being abandoned massively and, at the same time, asylum seekers are being forced to stay in Greece, waiting in vain for redistribution. The Dublin Regulation has failed, the Commission, Germany and the Netherlands, and yet Dijkhoff insists on the enforcement of Dublin rules. The EU demands Turkey to introduce visa restrictions for Syria and Iraq, and to guard the eastern and southern borders. But if it stops Syrian refugees from fleeing the bombings, the EU is appalled. You lose credibility quickly, but you get oh so hard to get back. If we continue to step up the pressure unilaterally on Turkey, then the refugees will be the victims. They are not at the negotiating table, the interests of Turkey and the EU are at the forefront. The motto of the deal with Turkey was to improve their conditions, but now we see that they are deteriorating very quickly in Turkey. Moreover, they do so in Lebanon and Jordan, as far as possible. 70% of the million refugees in Lebanon are now living below the border of extreme poverty and a quarter of them are suffering from constant food insecurity. What about supporting them and relieving the pressure there? These countries are really struggling with the numbers, and without aid, those countries will succumb to economics and security. However, behind all the fine words about support are mainly attempts to bring migration to Europe back to zero. The EU is too one-sided towards reducing influx into Europe, and too little on real responsibility for refugees. Yesterday's statement clearly shows that: tough agreements that Turkey is monitoring the borders and taking back rejected asylum seekers, but buttery soft words about resettlement from Turkey. The agreement on one refugee for another is, in fact, very cynical, because it actually creates an incentive to continue crossing illegally, both for Turkey and for the refugees. After all, at least resettlement will take place. The EU now also wants to send refugees back to Turkey and not just rejected asylum seekers, while Turkey is far from a safe third country. Turkey does not recognise the Refugee Convention for non-European refugees and does not offer them sufficient guarantees. I am shocked to hear the spokesmen of the coalition parties VVD and PvdA say: people can apply for asylum there and do not have to do so in Europe. This is directly contrary to the European standards that we now have. Those who provide that there must always be access to the asylum procedure and that it is then assessed here individually whether Turkey, or any other third country, is safe enough to send someone back to. I would very much like to hear the Minister's assurance that the right to asylum is not affected and that an asylum procedure will always be followed here. I honestly rely more on judges to judge whether Turkey is safe than politicians. If we continue to put pressure on Turkey, more and more refugees will be deprived of protection, and more money alone will not solve this. How will our government, as President, work to ensure that substantial numbers of refugees are resettled from Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon? Does the Minister agree with our group that a binding system of resettlement is needed as a means of pressure for the Member States? And what measures does the government take to ensure that Syrians can continue to flee their country? I would like to make a comment. So far, you've seen every closing of borders, and that goes for the deal that seems to be closed now, that routes are moving. The routes for refugees became longer, more dangerous and more expensive, because the only people who really benefit from them are generally the smugglers. How does the Minister intend to prevent the emergence of such alternative routes? In the EU, too, a fair distribution of responsibility is to be sought. This year alone, more than 100,000 asylum seekers have travelled to Greece. The agreement to redistribute 160,000 asylum seekers was a sensible decision, but the numerator of actual transfer is now, six months later, less than 500. Is this a credible European Union? As of today, no refugee is allowed to travel through Macedonia to the north. Now, therefore, it is really important that the redistribution work, in order to prevent the congestion of refugees in Greece. Can the Minister explain in detail what steps are being taken to achieve this? Moreover, the redistribution is only for promising asylum seekers. This means that the most complicated and difficult asylum issues are left behind for the Greek authorities, and that the Greek asylum system has been very inadequate for years. What are we doing specifically to ensure that there is an accessible and sound asylum procedure in Greece? What is the EU doing to support Greece? What can we expect from the Commission's proposal to amend the Dublin Regulation? Is the government looking for ways to ensure that all Member States participate in a fairer distribution? Why, for example, should Schengen be excluded as a means of ultimate pressure? In short, where is the beginning of a truly sustainable and joint solution aimed at sharing responsibility and respect for the Refugee Convention? I'd like a vision from the Minister. Another challenge for the Presidency is the imminent Brexit. The agreement has been barely reached and the impression is already given that the United Kingdom is being knee-deeped by the Member States. But what does our government itself think of the agreements? The agreements on restricting access to social services for Union citizens strongly reminded me of the letter from Minister Asscher and the Social Affairs Ministers of Germany, Austria and the United Kingdom in 2013 to the Commission that the so-called large-scale fraud of Eastern Europeans had to be dealt with. The Commission then bounced the ball back; it wanted to see evidence from the Member States. Then it stayed quiet. Now, apparently, there is no need for evidence of abuse to undermine the rights of all Union citizens. Is the referendum not a gift from heaven to restrict the rights of Union citizens without any evidence of abuse? Former Prime Minister Kok called these restrictions absolutely unacceptable, because the agreement breaks with the principle of equal treatment of Union citizens. What is the Minister's position? Will the Minister promise that if the British vote 'no' and leave the Union, the agreements in the agreement will actually lapse? That is by no means an imaginary outcome, and yet my group is getting the impression that there is no plan B. Is that right? What exactly would the position of the United Kingdom with regard to the EU be after a possible Brexit? I would like to hear an explanation of that. There is another referendum that many Member States are following with suspicion, which is tense about its consequences. The timing could have been happier for the government, but it is there. The government is in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine. This minister has convinced the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives. I am convinced that with his arguments he can also win the Dutch public for the treaty. Then why does he seem to remain silent and leave it to other parties to understand the benefits of the treaty? In my view, reference is being made too quickly to the debacle of the Constitution, but even then, in fact, the cabinet did not act convincingly. Now this cabinet seems to be making the same mistake. By not trying to fall into a trap, it seems to fall into it with open eyes. If the cabinet is in favour of its signature, it should not be neutral as far as we are concerned. I assume that the other Member States expect the same from the Netherlands. What exactly is the government going to do during the campaign? What exactly is the government going to do if the outcome is no on 6 April? What scenarios has the government prepared for this? The referendum on the Association Treaty is, of course, also about the appreciation that Dutch people have of European cooperation. Transparency is one of the ways to combat the growing euroscepticism. It is therefore to be welcomed that transparency of European decision-making is a priority for the Dutch Presidency. In the Access Info Europe judgment, the Court of Justice made it clear that greater openness to the public is crucial for the democratic content of Europe. A logical step is therefore full compliance with this judgment. Nevertheless, the Council is stalling. Almost two years after this judgment, a limited agreement has been reached on the listing of Member States in the Council documents. They may be deleted if deemed appropriate, a concept that offers little guidance. Therefore, this agreement would also be evaluated after one year. Why hasn't that happened yet? Furthermore, the limité documents are not yet available to the public during the negotiation process. In any case, it is crucial for parliamentarians that experts should be able to see the negotiating documents in order to advise them. Does the Minister recognise this and, if so, is he prepared to agree with the Chamber on access for third parties who have an advisory role for Parliament? Is he prepared to take this into account when evaluating these agreements at EU level? The government is right to seek more openness towards the trilogue, but communicating about the outcome of the negotiations itself is not a satisfactory solution for my group. What possibilities does the cabinet see for better communication during the trilogue? One of the arguments for concluding the Association Treaty with Ukraine is the importance of stability, democracy and rule of law at our EU borders. This raises the question of whether we are doing enough to realise and support all these elements in the Balkan countries, countries that are actually practically surrounded by the EU. I congratulate the government on accepting the application for EU membership of Bosnia. For the Balkan countries, and in particular Bosnia, Albania and Macedonia, it is very important that the Union brings them closer. Over the last 20 years, after the break-up of Yugoslavia and the war, development towards a democratic, prosperous and stable rule of law has been extremely difficult in these countries. It would also be in the Union's interest to accelerate these developments. Just look at the refugee crisis. This would also counteract the isolation of Greece. The influence of Russia but also of IS is imminent. Without sufficient perspective and support from the EU, this influence can only increase. The King of Jordan is aware of the danger and is concerned about the fate of the Islamic population. What about the European Union? What are we doing to support them in such a way that the prospect of membership comes into view? Another area where ISIS is advancing and stability is threatened, including at the borders of our EU, is the North African countries. Tunisia, a Nobel laureate because the revolutions have been so peaceful and democratic, is still in danger of succumbing to threats from outside. Last summer, the country was shocked by attacks. It was good that the minister with his presence supported the country. After the attacks, economic life has become even more silent and the lack of perspective has led more young people to join IS or other terrorist organisations, including to provide their parents with a good income. More than 5,000 jihad fighters now reside abroad, more than the total of EU-based fighters. All these circumstances make the worst fear for the future. It is therefore not to be underestimated that the EU has concluded a trade agreement with Tunisia. What more could the EU do, in particular to strengthen the rule of law in Tunisia? Human rights in Turkey are downright bad. My colleague Elzinga has already pointed this out. President Erdogan is increasingly repressive against the Kurdish minority, opponents and critical media, and the judiciary cannot be described as being entirely independent. The repressive regime has already displaced 350,000 civilians. The recent coup at the Zaman consortium was rightly shocked and condemned worldwide. Commissioner Hahn immediately stated that human rights are not "negligible." This signal is, of course, very important at the moment when the EU is negotiating with Turkey on the basis of a strong self-interest. I would like to know from the Minister exactly what the EU's steps are towards Turkey to counter this human rights deterioration. Can the Minister explain what his reaction has been? It remained freezingly quiet from the Netherlands in the last few days. An adequate response from the EU President would have been more than appropriate. As far as we are concerned, human rights are the first chapter of the accession negotiations and we will not proceed until it has been satisfactorily completed. In any case, it is worrying that the EU's focus on Turkey is so one-dimensional. For example, Turkey is a strategic player in the global context, including in the Middle East. Can the Minister therefore explain what the broader strategy is for Turkey? The Minister will agree with my group that if the EU wants to appeal crediblely to other countries in the human rights situation, including in the context of an accession process, the Member States themselves must apply a high standard for themselves and each other. The rule of law mechanism should help in this. The first state-of-law dialogue took place in the General Affairs Council in October last year. How did it go and what did it do? Has that been the case in Poland and Hungary? Has the Commission indeed put Poland under surveillance, as Commissioner Oettinger announced at the beginning of this year? What concrete steps have been taken and with what effect? Then a sustainable economy in the European Union still deserves a lot of support. We have already mentioned the Greek crisis with regard to refugees, but the economic crisis in Greece is far from gone. The Netherlands and Germany make the third loan package conditional upon the IMF participating. What are the financial and political consequences if the IMF does not meet? What does the Minister think about the fact that the EU has made itself so dependent on the IMF to solve a financial problem in the euro area? Moreover, the European Investment Programme EFSI has not yet launched projects in Greece. These projects seem to mainly end up in the better organised countries such as Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands. How do we ensure that Greece benefits more? The government calls itself a pioneer in tackling tax avoidance, but this is not yet reflected in its behaviour. Instead of supporting the fight against multinationals that avoid tax, the cabinet appeals against the ruling on Starbucks. Even after the announcement that IKEA has evaded a billion in taxes, the cabinet does not want to give Parliament an insight into the tax arrangements with this company. The Dutch ruling system remains hopelessly intransparent, people's representatives and the public cannot effectively check whether these tax arrangements are correct. Therefore, public country-by-country reporting is urgently needed, including information on tax rulings. Does this not fit well in the transparency ambition of the Dutch Presidency? How will the government promote this? Is it true that under the current proposal less than 1% of companies are subject to the country-by-country reporting obligation, because only multinationals with a turnover of more than 750 million are included? Does the Minister consider this to be sufficient and effective? Finally, one final point. It is high time that the EU took a leading role in combating climate change. There's a chance now. In Paris, world leaders agreed to keep global warming far below two degrees and also to do everything in their power not to allow it to exceed one and a half degrees. This means that our European policy needs to be considerably strengthened. Until now, the EU has applied an ambition level of limitation of warming to two degrees. Unfortunately, the Commission's new analysis of policy adjustment is very disappointing. We cannot afford to wait until 2023 to see whether climate policy needs to be strengthened after 2030. In order to reach the agreements we made in Paris, we will also have to increase the ambitions for the period before 2020. Is the government now ready as President of the EU to make efforts to strengthen European climate policy in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to start in my speech with what is currently at the centre of everyone's attention: tackling the refugee crisis. This crisis is now affecting cohesion, unity and, in some cases, the chances of survival of the European Union as we know it. Before I say anything about the political dimension of the issue, let me say that we see it as our expensive duty to provide humanitarian aid to people who have to flee their homes because of war violence. Anyone who has to save his or her life and is in danger of life must receive help without restrictions. That is what our humanitarian programmes are for, and to that end, the right of asylum exists as part of general human rights. I also have a deeper justification for this and it goes back to the biblical incentive to be hospitable to foreigners and to take it up for refugees, also from the understanding that existence is by definition finite for all of us. People can only cope with the uncertainty and effort of existence if they can count on each other. That is the basis of our solidarity and people on the run can appeal to it. Meanwhile, Europe shows how divided it is in one of the biggest humanitarian crises since the Second World War. The division and refusal of some countries to share in a solution is painful. The Europe that has often complimented itself on a post-war track record in the area of peace and prosperity can hardly accommodate people who are fleeing their lives or beliefs. Just in front of the picture: more than 4 million Syrians have fled their country and in Syria itself the double number has become displaced. Turkey captures 2.5 million Syrian refugees and Lebanon 1.1 million, often in wretched and hopeless conditions. Should Europe not be required to take on at least some of these people? This is a question alone which shakes the European Union's foundations. For those who thought Europe was a community of values, the word has already fallen a few times here today alongside an economic community, which it all started with, comes from a cold carnival home. There is no question of mutual solidarity. Member States close their borders and spread their problems to others. The debate is not about shared values and their application. What we see is maneuvering with the compass of national self-interest on the sea of geopolitical forces. Paul Valéry once, a century ago, talked about Europe as a "small cape of the Asian continent." This is about a Europe that has difficulty showing its own identity, a Europe with a lack of collective self-awareness and a Europe that cannot act together. If Europe is not to be a small cape of the Asian continent, it will have to make it clear what it is about and uphold the virtues of mercy and justice in a world that is dying under its own cynicism. That is why Europe must not lose itself in the solution we are currently working on. My group would have great difficulty if Europe were to pay the highest Turkish price, namely the acceleration of accession negotiations with Turkey. Mrs Strik pointed that out as well. Fundamental freedoms are already at stake in Turkey. Almost daily new examples of this come out. At the moment, sending the signal that Turkey can become a member of the European Union is also a signal about Europe's understanding of human rights and the rule of law. Does the Minister agree with me and would he like to say the same? As far as my group is concerned, Turkey cannot just be admitted as a member of the European Union, at least not in the way the cards are. I would also like to mention the point made today by the UNHCR as a comment on the preliminary outcome of yesterday's negotiations, namely that refugees sent back to Turkey should also be covered by the protection of international law. If the European Union wants to be more than an economic phenomenon and want to be more than a way of adapting European capitalism to the needs of a global era, as a historian said, there will have to be a constant discussion about the values which underpin Europe as a community of rights. These are values of human dignity and commitment to the common good. I see that Chancellor Merkel and also Claude Juncker, here in The Hague last week, spoke about the basis of our law and also about Christian values that are present under it. Can the Minister say anything about this debate on values in Europe? How does he see that? Is there perhaps a floor needed there? The Netherlands is currently committed to the European state-of-law dialogue. There are concerns about respect for the trias politicians in some Eastern European countries. How does the cabinet then assess the attitude of a number of European countries not to participate in the implementation of European asylum policy, simply to close their borders and not to cooperate in the distribution mechanism in Europe? Does he also want to involve these issues in the European judicial dialogue? In the meantime, so much uncertainty is causing the refugee crisis a lot of confusion in the Member States of Europe. Everywhere, counter-movement is taking place and citizens feel threatened by developments. The refugee crisis also reinforces the integration debate. However, anyone who finds protection for humanitarian reasons is not yet a future citizen, which is why return and expulsion policies really need to take shape. My group considers this to be an essential part of the refugee policy in order to get some rest in the social debate. What new agreements are currently being made on this subject? Then there are a few words about the State of the European Union 2015 and the Dutch Presidency. The President's version of that "State" sets out the ambitions and objectives of that Presidency and sets it out clearly. We're getting a clear picture of what the government is trying to achieve. Whoever reads the piece sees that suddenly we seem to be back in the reality of an administratively manageable world. However, it is not easy to say that European reality is unwieldy and that even where European countries have made agreements, implementation is not self-evident. This concerns not only the implementation of the European Commission's migration package and agreements on the refugee issue, but also the follow-up of recommendations under the European Semester. The government wants Europe to become more effective, to focus more on key issues, to reduce rules; it talks in the state of the Union about the beginning of a change in European governance. This striking expression of a change in European governance is also surprising. Those who watch closely see two stories at this point diametrically opposite each other. On the one hand, it is about reducing rules and reducing Brussels influence in the Member States and confirming control by national parliaments; on the other hand, there is an ongoing story about the need for the transfer of sovereignty to European institutions, which citizens are now deeply concerned about. What change in European governance is going on? In any case, we cannot continue along the road of democratic alienation, as the Council of State called it a few years ago. As far as I am concerned, this democratic alienation includes the contents of the Five Presidents' Report. Suddenly, there appears to be an authoritative plan that talks about the transfer of sovereignty to common institutions, which talks about economic union, a budgetary union and a political union. All 'in the long term', but steps are already being taken in this direction, there is a compelling agenda and governments are expected to act within this agenda. Is that just gonna happen? Was the message to the Member States since the Treaty of Lisbon not that the European Union should not act as a European government? The way in which the European Semester is now being looked at also feels as if the countries have been swimming in a trap. At first, the recommendations were only recommendations, but now there is a call for their actual implementation and they will soon be mandatory indications. Moreover, in the most recent country assessments, the Netherlands has also had to learn that the recommendations from previous years have not all been followed up. We just heard from colleague Backer where in that state of him there is also the Netherlands to situate. This also applies to Germany, which has also received a few messages. The Dutch government is "reserved" in relation to Juncker et al. "Thinking direction' outlined. However, my group welcomes this, as this direction of thinking is far-reaching and is hardly covered by prior democratic decision-making. But why are these reserves justified? Can the Minister explain them? The aim of the change in European governance, which we are talking about, is linked to a European Union which focuses on key issues and sets fewer rules. How does the Minister assess the commitment of Commissioner Timmermans on this issue? My group wonders whether the approach will lead to anything, as the underlying movement is still one of an extension and strengthening of European governance. I noticed that the government's motivation to support the reduction of regulatory pressure is mainly an economic one. Rules may hinder innovation, as is the case in the State of the Union. But an important source of discontent about European influence has to do with the feeling of losing control and the understanding that bureaucracy or neoliberal market logic displaces the functioning of democracy. In this context, I would like to ask about the cabinet's commitment to the fourth railway package. The negotiations will be concluded under the Dutch Presidency. In our last debate with Secretary of State Mansveld in this Chamber, she indicated her commitment: the Dutch concession model must be retained and the Netherlands has control over national rail transport. Will that also be the outcome of the fourth rail package negotiations? A theme related to this is about strengthening the position of national parliaments. The Dutch Government also considers this important. But what exactly does the cabinet mean? What is the strengthened position and when has that position been strengthened according to the Dutch government? I would like to comment on this point. Transparency is of the utmost importance for effective democratic control of European decision-making. The Netherlands is committed to this. By letter of 2 March, the Minister informed us of this. But what exactly is the underlying analysis here and what message does all these measures send? What transparency are we going to get and to what extent is transparency possible given the functioning of European decision-making? Connecting and fast. Those are the words typical of the Dutch Presidency; that motto was chosen. I'm sure it'll work with that connection. The Netherlands is used to doing politics in the polder with the task of keeping things together. But how fast the cabinet can be is unmistakable. It does not have the factors in its own hands, and in particular it does not have the will of countries to invest in joint solutions. We therefore wish the Minister much strength and wisdom in these extraordinary circumstances and look forward to the further exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. Europe has many advantages. Since the euro we no longer have to change money at the border, since Schengen we no longer have to stop at the border to show our passport and since the free movement of persons labour has become much cheaper. To a Dutch employee who complains about his salary, an employer can rightly say: for you ten others, Poland or Romania for example. Hungarian truck drivers drove a little less than €2 per hour on Dutch trucks, and of course that money can't be as much as a driver. We see them all camping in the parking lots next to Dutch gas stations, day in and day out. But for Dutch employers it is of course a pleasant windfall to be able to drive your truck around Europe for €2 per hour. And it could be a lot cheaper, it turns out. For less than €1 per hour you can have a welder from Romania or Poland working at your shipyard in Groningen. Quite simply: a Dutch temp agency spends a job on a foreign sister company so that it does not have to pay social contributions in the Netherlands. The companies say that there is a temporary job in the Netherlands and request a so-called A1 declaration for the "detached workers" through their foreign branch. Social contributions are paid over the much lower minimum wage in, for example, Romania or Poland. Creative, cheap. RTL News reports: "Hundreds of Romanians work at Dutch shipyards for €1 gross per hour, according to FNV figures." They're completely malicious practices. Employers, evade the Dutch collective agreement, lift the treasury and squeeze out the Romanians, says a dismissed employee who worked for GS Yard for five years at the Groningen Waterhuizen. He lost his job there as a crane operator. To a Romanian. "He is now on my crane without the proper papers. Doesn't speak the language and works 56 hours a week. For an apple and an egg." Nice for the employer, bad for Dutch employment. It's just a mosquito ear that pays attention to that. We are a European community of values and what difference does it make if a vacancy is filled by a Dutchman or a Romanian. Not that narrow-minded behind-the-dyke thinking, European community, we want that as I read on a packet of condoms that was handed out during an election campaign. It sounds cynical, but the situation is to it. It is a crisis on all fronts and that crisis is being used to speed up the process of unification. "There is no alternative," said an English Prime Minister once, although many British people feel that there is indeed an alternative by now. Brussels does indeed seem to be based on facts that have been fulfilled. The European train has been set in motion and cannot be stopped. Not only can employers within the EU benefit from the law of communicating vessels that brings about a free European labour market, but also tax-related benefits for Europe. For example, last year Facebook paid no more than €5,800 tax in the UK, less than a British employee with a modal salary. That makes citizens cynical. Europe, which should have been a project of fraternization, let there be no misunderstanding about it. It is a Europe of different speeds, a Europe in which the Member States have different economic temperaments, in which the north and the south seem to be opposite, in which not all Member States are members of Schengen, in which not all Member States have the euro, in which not all Member States give an unconditional commitment to EU membership and in which the refugee crisis only stirs up the split. Even "Mister Europe" Frans Timmermans openly doubts whether Europe is going to make it. Who could have thought that, except for the critics who have warned from the beginning of the European dream of a bubble that could explode at any moment with all the disruptive consequences of that. The Netherlands is on the eve of an unprecedented transfer of power. Three years ago, the Council of State identified a path towards a fiscal federation within the euro area, consisting of three steps: a banking union, budgetary contracts and a real fiscal union with its own taxes. The Council of State referred to these intentions as "sustainable," spoke of "provisioning consequences," warned of "large financial risks," spoke of "significant consequences for the role of national parliaments" and wondered whether "these decisions are actually being behaved democratically," especially now that "a growing proportion of citizens know and feel less responsible for and represented in the decision-making process by legislator or government, however much it takes place in accordance with democratic procedures." The Council spoke of 'democratic alienation', which is'very significant in terms of decision-making in the European Union'. That was three years ago, and the concerns of the Council of State are hardly unfounded. We must not ignore the serious concerns of the Council of State about far-reaching transfer of powers and hence far-reaching sacrifice of our country's sovereignty. Many people feel uncomfortable about the uncontrolled growing influence of the EU. The greatest monetary experiment in history, which cannot be said often enough, in which we are still in the middle, and the crisis resulting from it, is now being misused to give even more powers to Brussels, in slow pace, with steam and boiling water. The cabinet also feels that inconvenience, but has difficulty in coming up with solutions. The cabinet is in a split as regards the influence of the European Union, as is so many other issues. In fact, the cabinet wants more European regulation and less national influence. Under the guise of a level playing field, national headlines are being removed, but the Dutch voters are clearly not waiting for this. Faith in the European Union is rapidly crumbling. This has been the case since 2005, when the Dutch people massively "no!" said to the European Constitution, a wish which was then widely ignored by its people's representatives and expertly. In the meantime, more than 400,000 voters have forced a new referendum, no matter how high the bar was set by politics. Once again, the rhetoric of war by parties who believe that the people who have requested the referendum can best be accused. Through RTL News Good detectives have been able to learn about the communication strategy of the Cabinet, which should lead to a vote or turnout below 30%. Both are a desirable outcome for the cabinet. Can the Minister explain why the cabinet believes that fewer polling stations need to be open because a low turnout is expected? Is the wish possible the father of the thought? Does the cabinet feel it is democratically defending to make it difficult for voters to vote in a referendum where the cabinet does not expect a high turnout anyway? It will not be up to the referendum committee, because it will only pay out the subsidies requested less than a month before the referendum, which makes it difficult to run a good campaign, either in favour of it or against it or neutrally. In the context of the Ukraine referendum, I will present the next case. Dutch banks such as Rabobank and ING are investing hundreds of millions in a Ukrainian mega-chicken factory where 332 million chickens are slaughtered every year. European development funds and the Dutch credit insurance company Atradius are happy to kick out one of the largest laying batteries and one of the largest chicken factories in the world. This factory operates according to standards that are not allowed within the EU, but in Ukraine different laws apply. The factory is owned by billionaire and chicken farmer Yuriy Kosiuk, personal friend and also chief of staff of President Poroshenko. In the post of Chief of Staff, he is responsible for all military logistics. In addition, Kosiuk is a banker and owner of one of the largest recreational craft in the region. Kosiuk is a man with many talents and many side functions, and a man who pays little tax because the profit of the chicken factory is outside Ukraine and within the EU's tax havens. What causes our banks and our Brussels representatives to invest so exuberantly in the most corrupt country in Europe, according to Transparency International, with a friend of the Ukrainian president who is also running the Ukrainian army? There are, of course, similarities between bio-industry and war and logistics, but if, according to Forbes, the chicken farmer in question also produces another billion in subsidies and tax benefits and eggs according to a method banned in Europe, we should ask ourselves whether we are dealing with a good association. These cheap battery eggs from Ukraine can be the death blow for European and therefore Dutch farmers who try to comply with the minimum animal welfare standards that we have arranged here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u47	I'm interrupting now, because the sadness is now getting so big that I'm starting to have some existential problems with it. I hear that Ukraine has its own rules and that, in this case because of investments in the agricultural sector, it is becoming a deep lamentation. Wouldn't it be a celebration if we got Ukraine to take over European legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u48	In addition, the wish is again the father of thought. A country doesn't take over your rules when you enter into an association agreement with that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u49	So I'd go one step further. Successfully, we are making a treaty which states that Ukraine is already introducing European rules. This creates a nice level playing field. At least we will have fair competition and animal-friendly farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u50	That seems to me to be a case of wishful thinking. It is clear that when Europe forbade the laying batteries, Dutch banks and Dutch producers of laying batteries chose to apply what is forbidden here just outside the European borders. At the moment when you could get it done, I wish Mr Schaap every success in trying to do so, although I have not yet seen him try to do so, but if he is going to do so, if Ukraine takes over the Dutch rules, our batteries will be welcome in the next neighbouring country. That next neighbour is Russia, which is not yet a member of the EU. In this case, these battery eggs can be released again across the European market. There is therefore no benefit whatsoever for animals and farmers. I find it special that Mr Schaap, who often acts as a representative of Dutch farmers, does not now stand up for them. Dutch farmers cannot compete with laying batteries in Ukraine and sigh under the fact that their Rabobank invests in a country with much lower animal welfare rules than our country. Those farmers should be protected from the VVD instead of the VVD advocating a treaty that would overwhelm the Dutch and European markets and would not stand a chance for Dutch farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u51	I just wanted to cheer up Mr Koffeman by pointing out that the introduction of European legislation in Ukraine makes life much more interesting, including for animals. He doesn't even know what I'm doing in Ukraine. This includes promoting these kinds of developments. Mr Koffeman says that it is so terrible that the batteries were pushed across the border when they were banned here. However, we could very well avoid this by ensuring that battery storage is not allowed in Ukraine in this case either. Then we'll take Russia with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u52	I understand that you are going to launch a world revolution in animal welfare and that you are going to try to change the rules in all countries where they are less than here. I wish you much happiness and pleasure in that, but I expect little of it. At the moment, there is a call within Europe to reduce animal welfare rules because we cannot compete with what is happening outside our borders. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u53	And so we have to do it the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u54	That would be nice, but at the moment seven farmers have to stop every day in the Netherlands. With such support for unfair competition, this really does not improve. I will continue my speech. Does the cabinet want to be associated with such a country and what is the main reason for this? Is it trade, is it geopolitics or is it happening because the cabinet thinks that the Dutch citizen or the European citizen is eager to become associated with Ukraine? Do we want to do a game of rope pulling with Putin about the sphere of influence in the region? Do we want to challenge the Dutch farmers in their entrepreneurship to build even larger mega stables and thus compete with Ukraine? For a good understanding: The Netherlands is the most cattle-proof country in the world. We slaughter 465 million chickens a year, approximately 27 chickens per Dutchman, from infant to elderly. This one company of the friend of the Ukrainian president slaughters 332 million chickens a year alone, two thirds of the Dutch slaughter, and wants to expand considerably with the help of European development funds, without the European regulatory burden but with European subsidies. Why would someone vote for an association agreement on 6 April on such a basis? Can the Minister explain whether, in his view, the association agreement is primarily about trade..... 306 pages of the 323-page treaty are indeed about nothing but trade.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why is this association agreement so terribly important for the EU, more important than that with Chile, for example, which we have heard very little about? I would like a clear response, because after all, we have to vote on it within a month. What are we really getting at with Europe? The Dutch climate and energy policy has been abolished; the standards have been reduced to the absolute European minimum. The European point of departure that the sole objective of European agricultural policy can be achieved by increasing production is very much at odds with the fight against climate change. The increase in the production of the European agricultural sector, which is, in other words, the only objective of the Treaty of Lisbon, will contribute to the worsening of climate change, which was described by the UN IPCC as "dramatic" two years ago. What possibilities does the government see for dealing with this threat, one of the greatest threats of our time, especially for a country below sea level? The democratic deficit of the European Union has recently become painfully apparent in the procedure for authorising genetically modified maize. An overwhelming majority of the European Parliament was against it. A large majority of the European population does not want genetic engineering. Nineteen Member States have opposed admission. However, the ban on imports and cultivation is still not an issue, thanks to Monsanto's lobbyists. This company has now opened up a large site in Ukraine to promote genetech from a new EU protégé, just outside the EU, where more can be done than here. The Animal Party sees the EU as a potential platform for progress, rather than as the excuse for standstill and sometimes even decline, as it is now used. The Animal Party wants a Europe that gives both humans and animals the opportunity to have a good life. Such a Europe is made up of independent countries, which decide democratically to tackle cross-border issues together. A lot of things will have to change in Brussels to make that picture a reality. As far as my group is concerned, there is no new competence for the EU. If that is the case, the people must be able to vote on it by referendum. We want to change the European electoral system by introducing international electoral lists so that citizens from one Member State can vote for a candidate from another Member State. Can the cabinet explain why there is so much work going on towards European integration, while there is a total inability to harmonise excise duties, for example; ask the pump holders in the border area? It is not even possible to set up a pan-European party, although this has been discussed since 1992. How should we define a European Union that is unable to regulate something so basic as the possibility of voting for a candidate from another Member State in one Member State, but believes that a banking union can be established, followed by a political union? Isn't that a clear illustration of the fact that these things seem to be rather than solving the democratic deficit? When will there be a comprehensive public and mandatory lobby register in the EU? It is reported that 30 000 lobbyists are now in Brussels with 736 members of parliament, 40 lobbyists per Member of Parliament. Does the government see any reason to identify these relations and limit them? I'd like a response. Can there be a lobby register, not only for visits by lobbyists to MEPs, but also for visits to the European Commission and to officials? Where are the possibilities for monitoring the European Commission when concluding agreements with countries outside the EU, such as the negotiations on the EU-US Free Trade Agreement and between the EU and Ukraine? There are tens of billions to be saved on the EU budget by abolishing agricultural and fisheries subsidies and the Structural Funds. The Animal Party advocates alternative scenarios for resolving the euro crisis and wants the EU to develop scenarios for this, such as the use of parallel currencies and the possible division of the currency union into a northern and southern region. I'd like a response. A common currency should have been a binder, but it has developed into a dangerous fission mushroom. What began as a community of values has become a community of financial values with completely different principles. The state of the European Union is currently a state of dissolution. If we are not careful, we have the best years of European solidarity behind us. "We seek more confrontation than we hold each other," says Frans Timmermans. He never wanted to know about such gloom in the past. The EU had to succeed, and so the European Union would succeed. However, there is also a clear doubt, for example by Minister Dijsselbloem and our Prime Minister in a moment of frankness. A Europe with a mini-Schengen is suggested, or a smaller, more transparent Europe, which has a minimum of control. Even the deterioration of Schengen seems to be a serious option. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that? What if the number of refugees does not decrease, as the Prime Minister promised, but it continues to increase? And what if the distribution between Member States does not come into being against all expectations? What if we are thrown back at ourselves because an unlimited Europe does not bring what we expected? One would almost think that the era of the euro was not so crazy, when we still had our own currency alongside the euro as a unit of account, and with it our own clear and democratic monetary policy. Perhaps we have been too eager in the greatest monetary experiment in history, not knowing that any disappointment or failure would lead us to put our heads even further into a centralist noose. You don't have to be a populist to see that this could never have been the wish of the Dutch people. It was clearly expressed in 2005 when 61% said with conviction "no' to the European Constitution, which nevertheless came into being. Voting against was not an option, the European leaders threatened, in the same way that the referendum on the Association Treaty is framed, as if a vote against were a vote for war and against progress. The amount of energy that Brussels puts into free trade agreements and deregulation is in stark contrast to the energy that is put into better protecting European values such as democracy, human rights, animal welfare and the environment. Today's Europe encloses animals massively in mega stables, eradicates plant and animal species, loots seas and disrupts ecosystems worldwide. The main cause of the derailment of the European idea is that the means have been set as an objective. Once upon a time, economic integration was the means of achieving peace between countries, but now undemocratic decision-making is monopolized by economic interests and threatens peace and stability. In an enlarged EU, the rules are not evolving to the highest level, but to the lowest common level. A level playing field seems to be the magic word, but that is a playing field that is well below the Dutch ground. The helm will have to turn. There will have to be a new direction for Europe and a new European cooperation. This cooperation will have to focus on the realisation of ideals: sustainability, compassion, freedom and responsibility. Such a Europe is made up of independent countries that decide democratically to tackle cross-border issues together. There is absolutely no need for a single currency for monetary union. Then why did the euro come with all the costs involved in the exchange of coins? Mr Szász, then director of the Nederlandsche Bank, is very clear about this to this day: "To make it clear that there is no going back. The euro has a symbolic meaning. If you link the exchange rates unbreakably and make the coins completely freely exchangeable, that implies a common monetary policy and in principle you can have different coins." But with that common currency we would give up the right of self-determination over our money without noticeable unrest. Sneaking would create a destiny community in Europe whose consequences have not yet been seen. But it wouldn't come to a public debate about this silent revolution. These are not my words, but those of the former director of the Dutch Bank in 1998. His words are becoming more and more true. We can talk today about the European state of affairs. More and more, however, our Parliament is becoming a kind of provincial state of Europe. We see that becoming true in the euro area. Economic and political problems are caused by the fact that financial integration is more advanced than political ones. In order to save democracy, either more political integration is needed or less economic cooperation is needed. That is exactly what Europe does not make choices about. Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain do not benefit from the single currency, capital markets and free trade, but do not appear to be able to withstand the pressures of the richer Member States. With free trade agreements such as TTIP, Brussels is putting further pressure on democracy within the EU. Democracy in Europe is being undermined as a result of obligations arising from the conclusion of free trade agreements. Migration flows cannot be separated from trade blocs and free trade treaties which are by definition based on power building and exclusion. In 2008 that's big for the refugee crisis, Erwin Wagenhofer made the documentary "Let's make money." In this documentary Francis Kologo, a production manager of Sofitex, a large textile company in Burkina Faso, will speak. He says every Burkinese has a lot of debts. Any Burkinees born would be born with debts. And every African from Burkina, Mali, Benin and other countries will emigrate to Europe if they can no longer produce cotton. He says that they have no other choice and that they will be under European control. If the West does not stop subsidies to the cotton sector, they will be obliged to leave Africa. And Europe can build walls of ten metres high, but they will go to Europe anyway. It would be naive to see the refugee crisis as a temporary natural phenomenon, with temporary air bridges as a solution. The way in which Europe has organised itself and the way in which Europe consumes as if several globes were at its disposal call for a radical change of course. We don't have to wait and see. The Netherlands should take the lead in this. Further transfer of sovereignty cannot possibly be a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. The SGP is honoured to be able to discuss Europe with the Minister today. I suspect that today it will be less exciting for the Minister than on the SGP Youth Day, where he was allowed to perform a gig last Saturday. Nevertheless, we look forward to a very good exchange of views. In Greek mythology, Europe was the attractive princess who was chessed by Zeus. However, Zeus was already married, to Hera. So Europe was Zeus' second love and there are always problems sooner or later. Today, many people portray Europe as an ugly, false queen rather than a handsome princess. Where did this passionate euroscepticism come from? Perhaps it is because many princess Europe began to associate mainly with shadowiness and intrigue, so that they no longer see the forest through the trees. The EU as a forest. Rather, the EU as a densely-grown jungle. A forest full of majestic wilds, the European Member States. All the way to the top, the canopy, these wildebeests are intimately entwined. Those are the European institutions. In these summits there are powerful and proud apes, the European leaders. Underneath, in each of the wilds, millions of smaller forest dwellers, European citizens, are teeming. They live in their own tree, but are all part of the forest. And among these trees, on the dark, mossy forest paths, I detect all kinds of activities: transport, tourism, exchange in the field of education, care. These are European freedoms. It is a jungle full of greenery and growth and life. It's a busy day. Today we see a jungle where so much happens, that the top can no longer be seen from the bottom. It's a jungle that cracks under its own weight. Some forest dwellers can't be big enough and branched close enough. Others are concerned about the health of their own tree, as the smell of decay rises from other trees. The SGP has nothing against jungles. However, the SGP is for decent forest management. It must be said that Europe faces major challenges. Refugees reach Europe by hundreds of thousands. While many Europeans are heavily fetching on Europe, others see how much we are privileged in this continent. The refugees put their lives on the line to get here. That's a useful mirror. Peace and security have become so normal for us, that apparently we no longer realize what we can lose. Mercy and hospitality are offered to those who have been driven out of their homes by violence of war. At the same time, there is a growing awareness that an uninhibited influx is unsustainable. Nor should the threat of potential terrorism be overlooked. Whoever loves the wolves is a danger to the sheep. What does the Minister think of the recent warning from NATO General Breedlove that there would be a growing number of terrorists in the asylum stream in recent months? In addition, it is good that refugees continue to have a perspective on returning home. After all, we are not helping the region in question by draining it, especially when it comes to the young middle class. That's the backbone of every society. Cooperation with Turkey and other countries in the region is needed to improve the living situation in refugee camps, but also to prevent people from getting into boats and ending up as drowning. In this light, I would like to hear a further appreciation from the Minister on the agreements that have now been made with Turkey. As far as the SGP is concerned, Turkish EU membership is farther away than ever. I'd like to be clear about that. Can the Minister confirm that the conditions for accession are not being tampered with in any way? In addition, I call on the Minister to explicitly include the recognition of the Armenian genocide in the forthcoming talks with Turkey on accession, as the House of Representatives agreed at the time through the Rouvoot motion. I would also like to point out the great value of diversity between European Member States. The EU is a partnership of Member States and not a federal superstate. Unfortunately, the EU often has a rather restrictive attitude towards countries such as Hungary and Poland, which have their own vision of refugee issues or of maintaining Jewish-Christian values and traditions. I call on the Minister to accept and appreciate these differences. Anyone who denies the individuality of these EU countries too denies the identity of Europe itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u56	We agree on the diversity. I assume, however, that Mr Van Dijk also wants to set limits on this. I refer to it as anti-Semitism which is emerging rather quickly. I assume that Mr Van Dijk does not mean that we should bloom a thousand flowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u57	No, thank you for the opportunity that Mr Schaap has given me to say that I totally reject anti-Semitism. Of course there are limits. In everything that is broadcast from the EU to countries such as Poland and Hungary, I do miss some respect for national own Polish and Hungarian interests. Sometimes I cannot escape the impression that it has everything to do with the fact that these are relatively Christian, relatively conservative countries that are often proud of their own country and history and that these are par excellence values that the EU sometimes seems to have a little less to do with. I'd like to expose that tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u58	I am somewhat shocked by what Mr Van Dijk says. In his words, it was decided that the EU would actually adopt an anti-Christian attitude if there were countries which, from their national pride, took up certain positions. When we talk about Mr Orbán and Hungary or about the latest developments in Poland, we are actually talking about constitutional questions and restrictions on freedom of the press and on justice. In my view, we would do well to separate the debate from Christian values and instead to talk about the general and fundamental values in Europe, because then I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u59	I'd like to answer that question. My appeal to the EU is precisely to separate it from those underlying values. This is my position, and you may, of course, question it, although I do not want to use such heavy words as anti-Christian and such; those were your words and not my words. However, I doubt that if a secular, liberal-progressive regime had been in power there, then Europe would have gone so hard against these countries. That is my position and my thought, and I am happy to present it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u60	In particular, the Eastern European countries have indicated that they do not wish to share responsibility for asylum seekers. A number of these countries have explicitly said that they only want to receive Christian asylum seekers. Do you think such a demand should be respected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u61	I do not want to take on board all the policies of Poland, Hungary and related countries from this point on. I was talking about the tone, asking for respect for their considerations. Whoever you allow or do not allow into your own country, I say that it is primarily a national responsibility. I do not so much need to point to other countries. I prefer to put my finger on what the Netherlands itself should do. As a SGP, we are in favour of a generous admission policy with regard to actual refugees and people who fear the loss of their own lives and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u62	The crux of a common European asylum policy is that we also share that responsibility and that we are in solidarity with each other. It cannot then be that countries make their own demands and do not treat asylum seekers equally. Imagine if the Netherlands would say: we want to participate, but then we only want to allow Muslim asylum seekers and at least not Christian asylum seekers. Do you think this should be legitimized if you allow other countries to make a difference in the origin of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u63	I'd almost say this is a nice Strike question, but let's not say that out loud. You are now pulling me in to make concrete judgments on all kinds of policy proposals from other countries. My general appeal was: respect also that they are independent countries with their own history. What I am putting my finger on is that very patronizing and often presumptuous tone that is then being used from the European Union towards this kind of country. We are not in favour of distinguishing between religions. As far as we are concerned, anyone who is actually a refugee, from whatever background, is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u64	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mr. Chairman. I also refer to the protection of the individual European. In practical terms, I would like to place my finger on the position of the Jews. Anti-Semitism is still on the rise in Europe. Too often Jews are called names, spit, abused or threatened. Does the Minister effectively use the EU Presidency to denounce anti-Semitism? The House of Representatives explicitly called on the Minister to do this last year through the Bishop's motion and in what way does it now come of that? Will the Minister also promote an end to this one-sided, negative European focus on Israel? There is, in fact, only one decent democratic rule of law throughout the Middle East. One rule of law where a former prime minister disappears behind bars when he is guilty of corruption. And this land of all places, Israel, is constantly being cut down. EU labelling creates an environment in which boycotting Israeli products can thrive. I understand that new European restrictions are currently being imposed on Israeli milk, eggs and other chicken products. Can the Minister indicate how this measure would, in the name of God, promote the peace process? Will the Minister compare the attitude towards Israel with the mild European attitude towards Saudi Arabia or towards Turkey? If Israel were to act as hard against the Palestinians as Turkey is against the Kurds, who also want more autonomy. The world would be too small. But even if I look at all the financial support the Palestinians receive, while the Palestinian school system is still pumping hatred of Israel into it and being glorified by Palestinian state television suicide attacks, I can only describe the European attitude towards Israel as extremely hypocritical. Do European leaders really not see that this is irreparably damaging the relationship with Israel and that in this way the EU is undermining its role in the Middle East peace process? Is it not bizarre that, despite their aversion to Israel, Arab countries should be calling for relations with Israel because of the fight against terrorism and that Europe should come up with counter-measures of this kind? Coming back to my earlier metaphor, I put my finger on the expansion of the European jungle. The European responsibilities and responsibilities package continues to grow. Through initiatives by the Commission and other bodies, but also through the case law of the non-democratic Court of Justice, European integration is on the increase. The SGP calls for a small, effective Union instead of a "ever closer Union." The SGP is for cooperation if it has to, not if it can. Expansion of the crown and branches is much needed, so that air and light return to that mossy forest floor, so that simple forest dwellers see and understand the branches and apes on top of them, so that sunlight falls on that old, gnarly oak called the Netherlands, surrounded by other trees, and grows and blooms again in its own glory. Once the Apostle Paul also made a Turkish-Greek crossing. In this way, the gospel flowed into Europe. At the top of our wish list for the EU, there is a renewed transit and influx of the gospel into Europe. Only then can hags really turn into gracious ladies with royal character. The best thing that can happen to Europe is a rediscovery of the meaning of tried and tested Christian values. Sonst buy wir das cousin!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u66	The 50PLUS Group notes that there is distrust and cynicism about Europe among older and younger generations. We are therefore asking the following questions. What can we expect? Can we still have faith? Are the interests of small countries, young people and the elderly sufficiently protected in Europe? There is the impression that they are not properly protected. Can the Minister comment on this? I pointed out the distrust and cynicism. Another point that lives strongly with us is whether Europe is going to interfere with our Dutch unique supplementary pension system. I'm just gonna drop in with the door. We do not think that interference is necessary and undesirable. From Brussels there is still a tendency to interfere and treat pension funds more like insurers covered by Solvency II. The very heavy lobby of insurers in Europe is no stranger to that. Our 1,300 billion pension fund is a challenging prey for the insurers who are already struggling enough through the calving life insurance market. Fortunately, the Netherlands still has exactly enough allies to keep Brussels out of the door every day, at least for the time being. The United Kingdom in the European Union is a great support for this. Can the Minister explain the current state of affairs in Brussels and the Dutch position in this dossier? We are keeping an eye on EIOPA, the European regulator for insurers and the pension sector. It could be a multifaceted monster if a new crisis broke out. Another theme is health care. What can we expect from health care in Europe? Exchange of knowledge and methods can lead us to become the best for care and for the elderly. Can the Minister comment on the importance of this? The next issue is peace and security. Over the last 50 to 60 years, we have had a Europe as intended by the founders: wanting to be dependent on each other and working together. Now the self-interest seems to prevail over the common interest and anger, sometimes anger, arises towards each other. We see Brexit, the opposite in Europe of the former Eastern Bloc vis-à-vis Western Europe, and economic differences between northern and southern Europe. There are cracks in the walls and common values seem to go away. Finally, I come to the subject of 'the European budget'. We believe that the brake should be on the increase. Can the Minister explain the current state of affairs and the Dutch position? I would like to say a few words about the association agreement with Ukraine. The treaty has been signed and cannot be changed: all countries have signed it. There is a messy debate about the referendum in the Netherlands, with arguments for and against. It is the duty of the Cabinet to defend the signed treaty. Let the citizen speak freely! But let us realise that the people of Ukraine had, has and wills to continue to focus on Europe. Last week we had a discussion with a delegation from the Parliament of Ukraine: all those opposite us were after the Euromaidan. I thought that was special. How does the Minister view the situation in Ukraine and the conflict on the east side? I'm coming to the refugees now. Following Mr Nagel's contribution to the discussion of the budget for Security and Justice, we ask the question about the expected numbers in the Netherlands. According to the Cabinet, these high numbers only come if we do nothing. But what happens if, in the policy approach, we come up with higher numbers? Can the Minister state that it's under control now and later? And what does the cabinet do if it doesn't have the financial consequences? Can the Minister explain why Frontex cannot be rigged quickly enough? What can NATO do effectively, in addition to monitoring? Will the border and coastguard, which is being discussed under the Dutch Presidency, be established quickly? Then I'll come to Syria. A diplomatic solution in Syria is the only solution to the conflict; this is to be discussed jointly by the United States and Europe. That is actually the only solution to contain the flow of refugees and to receive the real refugees with dignity. How's the minister looking at this? In addition to Syria, Libya is at least as big a problem, which is very close to Europe. Neighboring country of Tunisia Members have already spoken about this matter already because of the terrorist attacks by ISIS from Libya. In particular, the second attack some time ago has struck tourism in Tunisia and thus the economy. Yesterday there was a new, heavy and thus third attack. What can Europe and the Netherlands do for Tunisia? In our view, there is a serious underestimation of the dangers from Libya. I dare hardly ask, but is this not an even greater threat to Europe than Syria, as the Prime Minister of Tunisia pointed out last week? What is the Western strategy for Libya? Is it even there? This debate is taking place in the aftermath of last night's Turkey summit and tonight's format of the European Central Bank meeting next Thursday and the elections in three Länder in Germany next Sunday. One to two years ago, Italy was already flooded by boat refugees from North Africa. The flow of refugees to Turkey started five years ago. Europe looked away and it did not come to agreements on control of the external borders. We have looked away from the massive reception of 4 million refugees in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which alone contains almost 3 million refugees. It was all a long way from our bed. Once again we are inundated, in large masses, and again we were unprepared, but unlike in the early 1990s in the flight of many from the former Yugoslavia. Each country then made its own contribution and this did not lead to tensions between the countries. How times have changed! Then I will go to the EU summit last night with Turkey on migration. Turkey is prepared to take back almost all the refugees arriving in Greece via Turkey. Europe would be willing to allow any Syrian who illegally makes the crossing to Europe, a Syrian to come legally from a Turkish shelter camp, possibly via an air bridge. That is Turkey's first demand. In addition, Turkey demands EUR 6 billion from the EU for reception in the camps, accelerated negotiations on Turkey's EU membership and faster travel without visas from Turkey to Europe. With regard to the latter, I can assume that the opposite will also be the case. Can the Minister comment on the state of play on this file since last night? Is there now a breakthrough with this'surprise proposal' from Turkey? What are the chances of a final agreement being reached next week? What is the legal basis for the exchange of Syrian refugees according to the right of asylum? How big is the waterbed risk via new routes? Chancellor Merkel stays on course as leader: that Frauschaft Schafft das. She focuses on a deal with Turkey, but the question is what the voters think about this on March 13. In Baden-Württemberg, the CDU is in bad shape in the polls. The CDU is even slightly smaller than the Grünen: 30% versus 30.5%. Elections are also held in Rhineland-Palatinate and Saxony. The Germans call it "Just like that day in, day out in the media to follow "Protestwahlen." If the defeat of the CDU were to occur, it could lead to great unrest within its own party and friction with the sister party, the CSU, and, if possible, instability in international and European politics. Perhaps the Turkey summit for the CDU/CSU was just in time. After all, everything is political. A bad result for CDU will only increase populist pressure in Germany and not bring a solution to the refugee problem closer. In addition, France has also recently stepped on the brakes. I now come to a very different subject: Europe and the euro. The future of Europe has a long past. For the euro, the future does not have a very long history, but it has a history since the Maastricht Treaty of 1992. Next year, that's 25 years ago. In 1997, five years after the Maastricht Treaty, Nobel Prize winner Milton Friedman said the following about the euro. "The European common market is a model of a situation which is detrimental to a single currency. Europe is composed of individual nations, whose inhabitants speak different languages, have different habits and have much greater loyalty and attachment to their own countries than to a common market or to the idea of Europe." Friedman concluded that the adoption of the euro would exacerbate political tensions by transforming various shocks into political issues leading to divisions. In his view, these shocks could easily be offset by changes in exchange rates. ECB policy is characterised by a strong short-term policy. This started at the end of 2014 with the introduction of its variant on the incentive policy of the Fed, the "Bernanke banknote helicopter." ECB policy is aimed at achieving 2% inflation, as if it had to be an end in itself, in order to achieve more growth. It is not effective so far, which is why Draghi even intensified in December 2015, which, by the way, disappointed the trade fairs. There's probably another drip coming in on Thursday. But if the oil price is cut by half, that 2% is a heroic and non-real objective. It's expanding and stimulating against the cliffs. As a result of ECB policy, short-term interest rates have gone to a historical low and the end does not yet seem to be in sight. The Dutch banks complain about this policy, but Draghi does not seem to stop. Geopolitically, it leads to a large redistribution within the euro area of wealth between the northern countries with low government debt and many private savings and southern countries with very high government debt and low savings. Making debts is rewarded and saving is punished. Another consequence of low interest rates is that there is a race to the bottom worldwide to lower exchange rates of one's own currency in order to defend the competitive position. Draghi has given the euro a major negative blow in relation to the dollar, and that may well be the main objective of his policy. The euro has fallen to 1.10 dollars and 1 to 1 remains in sight. China has also dropped its currency considerably, although it has said recently at the G20 that it will stop doing so, but that remains to be seen. The European Central Bank's low interest rate policy leads to a manipulated interest rate that cannot be regarded as a market rate, and certainly not as an indication of long-term interest rates. In recent months, the 10 year interest rate has also fallen from almost 1 to 0.2% in the Netherlands. This interest is also used in the Netherlands for determining the coverage rate of pension funds, the so-called forward rate structure. The ABP is therefore close to the dangerous 90% that determines whether or not to cut in early 2017. The German 10 year interest rate is already turning negative. The low interest rate is not only a disaster for the members of pension funds, employed and no longer employed, but also for savers. In Het Financieele Dagblad of 5 March four Dutch economists spoke: two for and two against Draghi's policy. The four opinions show that there are considerable differences of opinion. This also shows that the general economy in the Netherlands and beyond has lost its scientific strength. The difference of opinion cannot be clearer as to whether or not there is a further monetary expansion and whether interest rates are reduced or increased. It is true that in a normal economy inflation of 2% is healthy and even necessary for growth. Famous is a statement by the then President of the Nederlandsche Bank, Zijlstra: a few percent inflation is the necessary lubricant. But we don't have a normal economy. The Fed has experienced a huge monetary expansion, but has also reversed it far too late. After the second enlargement by Bernanke, the current president, Yellen, seems a little more vigilant to kick the brakes in time. In the meantime, Draghi has continued to expand and much indicates that he will continue to do so the day after tomorrow, although in December he disappointed the markets with less expansion than was expected. The fairs are at the Draghi infusion, with ups and downs. 700 billion has already been increased. This extension will go much further in the forthcoming announced period, with ever lower bond yields. In addition, there is a negative deposit rate for the banks. What will Draghi do now? Will he not continue to care about the savers and pensioners who are increasingly affected and will he be able to remain deaf to the warnings of Weidmann of the Deutsche Bundesbank? For example, there has been increasing opposition to the Draghi policy among German savers and pensioners. When will they be resisted in the Netherlands? Yesterday we read that the Sparkassen in Bayern are going to store cash in vaults. Of course, this costs money, but it is considerably cheaper than depositing cash with the European Central Bank, for which you pay a penalty rate. The European Central Bank must realise that a natural soil can be reached. The aforementioned FD article last Saturday contains two schools: Jacobs and the Jong van ABN AMRO opposite Bruinshoofd van de Rabobank and Hoogduin. Jacobs is in favour of further broadening and even exceeding ECB powers by creating real helicopter money. De Jong van ABN AMRO notes that interest rates are low due to the crisis and the low oil price. He called for further reductions in interest rates. Now I'm gonna go to the other school. Brown Head of Rabobank states that the magic of the central banks has been worked out and that these central banks are detrimental to the income model of the banks and have a devastating effect on the coverage levels of pension funds. It will lead to more savings. He advocated a shock therapy with an increase in interest rates and an end to monetary expansion. The prerequisite for this is global coordination of central banks and accompanying fiscal policies to avoid a shock on financial markets. This spending impulse stimulates growth and is partly funded by higher VAT and energy taxes, which also directly increases inflation. Head of Brown also expects further reduction of the ECB's interest rate, but hopes that the ECB will come back before the summer. Hoogduin also believes that the ECB should stop buying bonds and raise interest rates. The increasing deflationary forces are simply too strong. I conclude that the fight against the beers is: the deflation lion is not tame with lower interest rates. The low interest rates are, of course, very welcome in the countries of southern Europe. It makes it possible to continue to finance high public debt there. Those who believe that Draghi's policy is helping to implement structural reforms in those countries are very naive, as are the many politicians who believe that the Greek problems with last year's measures have been solved. If you look at the recent figures on the Greek economy, and especially at the IMF figures, you will see that the cautious growth forecasts have been replaced by shrinking assumptions. If you add up the recent publications on the decline in tourism to Greece, it becomes clear that the Greek economy is going to get into trouble again this year. I expect Greece's planned repayments to the ECB in the middle of this year to be more problematic than that of the previous year. Yesterday it was announced that the Greek debt issue will soon be discussed again by the euro countries. A possible debt relief is part of that conversation, says Dijsselbloem. It is likely that the maturity and interest rates will be adjusted. Can the Minister state what the cabinet thinks about this, given the previous position? The Greek problem will not help our growth either. Uncertainty will increase again, and citizens will continue to save, if only to compensate for the reductions on their pensions. Whether that saving will be at the banks is only the question. With the current very low interest rates, I expect savers to take their money away from the banks. And that will weaken the banks. In the Netherlands the blow also hits hard. We save a lot at net 0 interest rates and we have 1,300 billion young people twice in pension funds. Those funds could be forced into discounts in 2017, while the returns in the last 30 years were between 6 and 7%. Discounts a few weeks before the elections: the cabinet will already be in panic about the stupid procyclical market interest rate policy of the financial review framework. All warnings about the far too interest-sensitive ftk were dismissed. I was just quoting Friedman, I'm skipping what the BIS said yesterday about the crisis, but I'm also closing with Friedman. So many years later, he was very right. So the question is, isn't it time for a new Keynes? Or is it perhaps time for someone to explain once again to Secretary of State Wiebes that with this policy returns from 2.9 to 5.5% are absolutely unfeasible? If the citizen isn't dried up by Draghi, Wiebes will stop by to make sure that the saver in the Netherlands has to interen on his ability. We believe that pensions should not be reduced in early 2017. I await with interest the Minister's reply during this presidency of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. If one thing is clear at the moment, it is that we cannot miss Europe, the Union, that countries alone are no longer able to cope with the major problems we face. That was, of course, clear after the economic crisis, the banking crisis, the crisis of the southern countries, Greece, and the political crisis in Ukraine, but now also in the middle of the Middle East crisis where everyone is fighting with everyone. In all these cases you might think: we are a country with a strong economy, we can save ourselves. In all these cases, however, the conclusion must be that Europe can do more than we can, and therefore that understood self-interest is more served by European solidarity, although sometimes it costs a little, rather than nationalistally motivated isolation. What also turns out is that we have taken too long to discover that some things can be better dealt with by Europe. If we had listened years earlier in Europe to Italy, Greece and Spain, who sometimes begged for a European asylum system, unlike the Dublin system, the situation would be different now. After all, the Dublin system has never worked really well because by far the greatest pressure from asylum seekers has always been in southern Europe. So Dublin has always been evaded and we would have had a better regulated situation, despite the huge numbers, if we had then developed a more supportive asylum policy regime. That conclusion seems to me to be educational in many other areas. The fact that we are too late does not relieve us of the obligation to deal with the situation as well as possible. This situation is forcing aid to Greece and also the willingness to supplement Dublin with a distribution mechanism, which unfortunately we are no longer able to force ad hocly on European countries which do not want to do so. We should have made agreements sooner. It also forces us, given the numbers, to send back all those who have no chance. In order to do so, we need Turkey to take back economic refugees and, in view of the deal that is being made, perhaps in the first instance all refugees from Greece. There is, of course, an obligation to take back by means of an orderly, legal process. That is the solution through Turkey, which is the way the German Chancellor has pointed out and which can only be shared by Europe. Does the Minister agree that this path should be followed, even if there are problems with refugee law in this respect? If that is the case, does he think that this money may cost and that, after all that Turkey has already done for almost three million refugees, we should also be able to get through quickly, with money and with the legal readmission of refugees? There are still a few questions behind that. A more far-reaching European asylum policy also involves a European definition of safe countries of origin and of safe third countries. Does the Minister agree with me? Little has happened about that. But, above all, the question arises: can Turkey be considered a safe third country and, more importantly, a safe country of origin? Georgia will be exempt from the visa requirement for the EU after an accurate assessment of the circumstances and arrangements there for its residents. How many demands do we want and can we impose on Turkey for that? To what extent will the EU express the willingness to include Turkey as a member, now that the honesty of saying that the country's internal situation has in the past been closer to the EU's demands for new members than is currently the case? This concerns internal democracy, legal certainty, and from a human point of view especially the Kurdish problem. What is the Minister's position in the dilemma that is emerging here? In the same context, we can also see that suddenly, in order to save Schengen, we need reliable and therefore common external border surveillance, and that we have found out too late, and that we should have been prepared to pay for this earlier. Why does Europe need a crisis to come to terms and realise that we are in a boat together? The conclusion that we are too late in finding that we can deal with the big things, not the small things, of course, better at European level than at all entrances, is not, as far as I am concerned, just with asylum and border surveillance. We have maintained our 'tax sovereignty' for a very long time. That is what is happening now that the OECD is working to formulate common principles for everyone, but it is also true that further harmonization of the tax systems would ultimately benefit everyone, or at least the European total. The latter also applies to the possibility of issuing state loans in the name of the Union, Eurobonds. The idea seems to have been shot off in the meantime, but it remains useful to keep this possibility in mind. The Netherlands gives the possibility to lend money to Curaçao and Sint-Maarten at the interest rates applicable to the Netherlands, not to Aruba. Does the Minister not think that it would make the Union as a whole more economically balanced if we had to pay a little more, but the deficit countries far less, interest on their government loans? This includes a tight Stability and Growth Pact. The Governors of the Banque de France and the Bundesbank recently advocated a financing and investment union in order to reduce debt financing in the euro area. Can the Minister explain to me what they have in mind? Isn't that a final step towards these Eurobonds? We are now running into the fact that the EU's budgetary rules are rigid, too rigid to be able to easily free up money for sudden urgent cases. In doing so, the multiannual budgetary framework is a rather rigid straitjacket for a Commission with the aspirations to conduct and make visible European politics. Should not a new Commission itself be able to negotiate a budget agreement for its term of office? And isn't it time to get real own resources for Europe? It is working at the moment that the distribution of contributions, the contributions of the countries, are officially based on a fair starting point, but in fact always call for discussion, especially when it comes to after payments. And it is also true that every country continues to look too anxiously at whether all the paid returns to subsidies? That is not easy to do with real European politics. Let a new Commission negotiate with the Council and Parliament to set a percentage of VAT for Europe. Or, as the German Minister Schäuble suggested, the EU will levy its own tax on petrol and diesel. That is clear, it takes account of the capacity of the Member States and it benefits the politicisation and hence the democratisation of Europe. What does the Minister think? I shall speak briefly on a very different matter. We will soon have the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. I voted in favour of that treaty, and I still support it, but the action of the Ukrainian Government and parliament towards Russia and towards the rebellious provinces in the east obviously plays a role in the final assessment of the usefulness of the agreement. On 3 March there was a meeting of the partners in the so-called Normandy-Format where there is still no settlement for the elections in the eastern provinces. That almost looks like obstruction. How does the Minister see that? The architecture of Europe is not exactly what I see as ideal. I still believe that a Europe of regions could be a more balanced Europe than a Europe of large and small, even very small states. But the state, with all its history, doesn't just pull over. That is why the interplay of the peoples of Europe is so important that I use the plurality of Parliament, the European states in the Council, and the still immature executive power in the Commission, a good basis for European governance. On this basis, with the Treaty of Lisbon, we can go a long way further. I understand that recently the Foreign Ministers of the Founder Nations, the original six who started the ECSC and then the EEC and Euratom, advocated moving forward with an ever closer union. This is contrary to the arrangements for Britain, which does not want to go that way. Of these agreements, the question is whether they can prevent a Brexit. Maybe Cameron had to let the English and the Scots decide separately whether or not to resign. Mr Backer has already pointed this out. This could provide a good picture of the degree of or perhaps the lack of coherence within the United Kingdom itself. Whatever comes of that, I agree with the ministers of the founding fathers, to which I assume Minister Koenders belonged. Perhaps he can tell us something about this opportunity and the specific reason for making such a statement with each other. There is currently a Commission in Brussels that is prepared to allow the Union to be reduced where necessary, but also to allow action to be taken where necessary. The Dutch Presidency gives us great responsibility at the moment. The Netherlands, too, has often contributed to a negative approach to Europe and thus to that eternal "too late" in taking necessary measures. The Presidency may, for my part, be responsible for the ever closer union of our minister, possibly with a separate leading group. Let the Netherlands belong to that leading group! I'd like to hear from the minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u68	I note that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-8.u69	I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes until the Secretary of State for OCW arrives.
