ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. We'll continue with the second term of the Chamber. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Bashir on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is one third of that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have made an extensive contribution to the legislative proposal in the first period and I have indicated how things should be different. As far as the SP is concerned, we must make real choices. We must choose the future and choose greening. This means that we choose to pay for use instead of all other systems. We could have made the choice to take those steps. I understand, of course, that you can't do that at once. You're gonna need some time. The Secretary of State could have given the first impetus to this. I'm sorry he doesn't want to take any steps in that. We have proposed not to reduce the add-on rate to 22 but to use it to 23 and its yield to encourage the private user to go greener. If we can, we want to encourage the green private user to drive even greener. The Secretary of State was not very benevolent on this point. In the written answers we have received today. However, he states that this is not considered to be legally insurmountable. In other words, it can be done legally. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to give our amendment a positive opinion. Then the SP Group can support the bill. If the Secretary of State insists on dissuading our amendment on not reducing the add-on rate to 22%, but until 23, I will advise my group to vote against this bill. This morning, I was standing in front of a red light. I realized that while I had red others had green. The same is true of this bill. Whoever has green needs red, too. If the Secretary of State and the other parties want greening, they need red. They have to look at us, look at the red party. If they support our amendment, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and also for the written reactions to the amendments. GroenLinks remains extremely surprised. A government drafts a policy that finds that it does not have the desired effect and instead of adjusting it and fine-tuning it better, the government lets the pollution of the fleet go up; then fewer cars with a plug, then less slowly into the future. I had hoped this cabinet had more ambition. If it didn't go well the first time, you're gonna change the policy. I find the Secretary of State's handling of his own forecasts curious. The projections are much less plug cars and much more CO emissions. The Secretary of State, however, is an optimistic man and thinks that it will all come together. Does this Secretary of State do the same with other figures and other forecasts? Surely one would expect that there is a degree of accuracy in dealing with this at Finance or that bandwidths are being worked on. I'm a little disappointed in that. Apparently, prognosis is just an opinion. I have three motions. GroenLinks is going to make an appeal to make the fleet cleaner even in the Netherlands. We will then be the country with the most increased CO emissions this year and least clean energy in Europe. We have plenty of opportunities, including for more employment in the south. I've heard that BMW is interested in having his durable cars made in Limburg and that's fantastic. That must be something that appeals to the Secretary of State. When at first you do not succeed, you try and try again. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Energy Agreement states that the Kingdom will participate in the study from 2016 on payment for vehicle use as simplification in the tax system;]] [[Whereas a thorough examination of "payment for use" should include the option of a personal travel budget incorporating travel expenses and leasing arrangements;]] [[calls on the Government to identify promising and effective options for "payment for use', including a personal travel budget, and to inform the Chamber about this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy agreement aims to sell only CO-emission-free cars from 2035 onwards;]] [[noting that the energy agreement to introduce this objective refers to an intermediate growth model;]] [[noting that the Vos c.s. motion calls for purely emissions-free cars to be sold from 2025;]] [[calls on the government to identify these two scenarios with an growth model, intermediate targets and evaluations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that from 2017-2020 more than 60,000 plug cars will come out of the lease on the second hand market;]] [[Whereas also plug cars emit less CO and NO than regular cars;]] [[Whereas these more sustainable vehicles have benefited from fiscal incentives;]] [[Whereas this environmental gain may leak abroad;]] [[Whereas, therefore, an additional incentive to improve our loading infrastructure is leaking;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to maintain the lease-plug cars that enter the second-hand market in the period 2017-2020 for the Dutch market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-22]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers, both the oral answers and the scriptural supplement. The core remains for the VVD group that we approve of the overall package of proposals, even because 90% of car drivers are making progress. However, there are always a few points of attention. First of all, the diesel appointment for older cars. It's a deal. It is not exactly something that we are enthusiastic about, but we keep to agreements. The question is, what is the extra yield? I've already asked that in the first term. The answers have not given me the desired clarity, and that brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a new diesel surcharge will be introduced into the vehicle tax from 2019 onwards;]] [[noting that the Autobrief II states that the proceeds of this supplement contribute to the general reduction of the vehicle tax;]] [[noting that both the structural and temporary additional revenues of this measure were not included in the budget budget under the Autobrief II Act;]] [[Calls on the Government to collect and redirect the proceeds of this measure by further generic reduction of the vehicle tax in the 2017 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Neppérus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u5	I would like to know whether the VVD Group fully supports and wishes to have implemented the transport part of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u6	The VVD is always bad for the energy agreement, but a motion was adopted last week which completely deviates from the energy agreement on cars. My group thinks that this is a very strange step. We have signed and implemented the energy agreement. The motion tabled by Mr Vos and others, which was adopted last week, unfortunately departs from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u7	The debate on this has already been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u8	Yes, but that motion has been passed. My group does not agree with what it says. This has deviated from the energy agreement that we continued to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u9	I merely asked whether the VVD Group would like the energy agreement to be fully implemented in its present form. Does it also want to fully implement the transport part of that energy agreement? The text that Mrs Neppérus is now expressing, the motion she is tabling and the support she is now giving to the Car Letter, contradicts that energy agreement. Mrs Neppérus has just accused Mr Vos of doing something that is contrary to the energy agreement, but if I hear Mrs Neppérus speak now, I have to conclude that the VVD Group is doing exactly the same thing. So I asked for confirmation. Is the energy agreement embraced by the VVD Group and executed to the letter? Or does the VVD group say: yes, on this point we prefer to give the motorists the advantage of polluting cars, and for that the energy agreement should go a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u10	I am surprised to hear what Mrs Van Tongeren is saying. We are implementing the energy agreement. We have said: we sign this agreement and we sign it, even though I do not like it. However, it is common that you don't like things. We are implementing the energy agreement, but my group is deeply disappointed by what happened last week with that motion for a resolution. I come to the questions of how expenditure is spent to stimulate certain cars and what happens when expenditure increases excessively, and how it is monitored. Mr Van Dijck and Mr Omtzigt discussed this in detail last week and it is also mentioned in the answers. I think that is really an important point that we need to be able to follow. The Secretary of State writes about an emergency braking procedure. The amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt will be carefully examined by my group. Stimulation is good, but you have to see if it's a little tight. If that is not the case, other financial problems will arise. In environmental areas, there is still the risk of double taxation. We are going to tackle older diesel cars a little more heavily, but at the same time municipalities are in the process of introducing environmental zones. Many parliamentary questions have been asked about this. I understand there were over 100 of them. We await the answers. According to my group, there is something about diesel cars that are double-packed. In fact, there is a double taxation and a double treatment of those older diesel cars. We would therefore like the Secretary of State to make an effort in the Cabinet to ensure that this double approach will disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u11	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I would like to stress once again that I am opposed to the instrumental function of taxation. Taxes are not there to control behavior, so they are not there to favour or harm certain cars. In this respect, I am actually a fundamental opponent of this letter. Anyway, I'm also a realist. That is why I support reality. In practice, therefore, I will vote in favour of this bill. Like Mr Omtzigt, I would like to draw particular attention to the foreign registration numbers. The Secretary of State knows that I have always done my best to ensure that everyone who lives and works in the Netherlands pays their fair share. After all, the Netherlands is not a tax haven. This also means that people who come from an Eastern European country but live here and drive a Polish mother-in-law's car should simply be insured here, be subject to a tax and, above all, pay road taxes. I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the question raised by Mr Omtzig in the first term. How are we really going to use those 2 billion photos taken here every year of those plates? I have tabled an amendment together with the CDA to add 10% to the income tax on emissions-free cars. Such cars are currently only available from the Tesla brand on the market. I find it ridiculous to favour such cars extra. 10% is already very, very moderate. Let us all above all not create new plug-in hybrid states here. I find the focus on LPG inadequate in this whole debate. I regret that this fuel, which had such a nice start in the Netherlands, is slowly pushed to the background, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas LPG was used as a full alternative for a long time in addition to petrol and diesel as a fuel for passenger cars;]] [[noting that research shows that LPG is on its way back to the Dutch fleet while LPG has advantages over other fossil fuels, including in the environmental field;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a level playing field for the various automotive fuels in the design of car taxes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u12	Finally, as far as the environmental areas are concerned, I fully agree with Mrs Neppérus. These things disgust me. As far as I am concerned, they can be abolished as soon as possible. I'm not saying that because I drive a diesel myself, but because it's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u13	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and his letter this morning. There is now a new law on car taxes. The Labour Party is satisfied with this. Driving is cheaper for almost 90% of people. We end the oversubsidisation of expensive plug-ins. Tax revenues are becoming more stable. Lease riders are gonna pay another normal add-up. And most important of all: we are fully committed to stimulating fully electric cars and thus investing in a sustainable future. I am also pleased to note that organisations such as the ANWB and the car industry, with thousands of employees, are also able to cope with these car taxes, despite the fact that car taxes are going to rise slightly again. I have listened to the concerns about the second-hand market for plug-in hybrids. I don't think it's gonna be that bad, because it's about cars that come out of the lease and are six years old. Yet I find that there is a fear that these things will be exported. Then it can help to lower the road load for hybrids a little more. I understand that Mrs Schouten is tabling an amendment to that effect. I'll be happy to sign that. D66 may be afraid that the environment will suffer from this car law, but Mr Omtzigt fears that it will be too great a success. He thinks that the tax facilities for cars are so generous that the storm is going to run at the car dealership. I am leaning more towards Mr Omtzigt's position, because we have learned from damage and shame that the car dealership and the motorists are reacting very quickly to financial incentives, faster than everyone thinks possible and faster than the models take into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u14	Mr Van Weyenberg is getting impatient, because he has been there for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u15	In the first term, Mr Groot has consistently failed to answer my questions. They were talking about the car park of new cars getting 10% dirtier, 20% of the lease cars getting dirtier, 100,000 electric cars getting less. I have one specific question. I would appreciate it if I could just get a clear answer to that in this second term. There is a motion by Mr Vos. Hail for that and support from my group. It says all newly sold cars should be electric cars by 2025. Now I have looked at how many electric cars there are in 2020 because of this Car Letter, because Mr Groot was just very proud of that. He said: we are full of electric! How many electric cars are driving with this Car Letter in 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u16	I have just said that I share Mr Omtzigt's observation that the sale of electric cars is going very quickly once you hand out a considerable tax advantage. Exactly how much that is, I don't know. We know that things are already moving much faster than we expect. Tesla presented a new model of €35,000 last weekend. It's a nice car, an attractive offer. That could just go very fast in sales, especially when you see with which tax facilities the Netherlands promotes. Don't ask me about numbers. It can go up real fast. That was also the last piece of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u17	It's a little painful. We hear from the PvdA a hymn on the electric car all the time, but to the simple question how many will come, the answer from the PvdA is that she does not know. I do know, because TNO calculated it: 65,000 electric cars. Thus, Mr Groot claims that by 2025 all new cars will be electric, while the Car Letter shows that, with the support of the PvdA, it will be 65,000 by 2020. I am not saying that, as is said in an independent investigation of Policy Research Corporation and TNO, commissioned by the Cabinet. Mr Groot simply has to be honest: this letter is bad for the number of electric cars. I can understand why he wants to do something about overstimulation, but he's going crazy right now. The fact that Mr Groot does not even know what its effects are on the electric car fleet says everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u18	That same TNO report predicted 70,000 cars at the end of 2016, but we are already on 90,000 cars. So we know how quickly estimates can be obsolete again. These tax facilities are not only in an absolute sense, but also in a relative sense very strong compared to other models. So the expectation has been aroused that it can run very quickly. However, no one can say in advance how fast it will run.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u19	Do I understand correctly that the PvdA Group is only in favour of tax facilities if they apply to a select group of people and that the PvdA Group wants to stop doing so immediately as soon as the masses want to use them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u20	On the contrary. Boosting the use of electric cars also happens to give the technology a chance. Now there are models available that are also accessible to the ordinary man and now we continue with those tax facilities. I therefore do not share Mr Bashir's suspicion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u21	Mr Groot himself has just said that he agrees with Mr Omtzigt. The bill is based on an additional 4%. Mr Omtzigt proposes a 10% addition, and Mr Groot says he agrees...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u22	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u23	... because he too fears overstimulation. My question is how the PvdA intends to ban non-electric cars by 2025, as proposed, if the incentive is already limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u24	That assumption is wrong. We do not support the amendment to bring the addition directly to 10%. We won't. That would also be an infringement of the agreements made in the conclusion of the Car Letter. What we do want, I will say at the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u25	The PvdA often finds GroenLinks on its side when it comes to implementing the energy agreement. Part of our disappointment about the PvdA is therefore caused by the fact that new lease cars are getting dirtier by adding 25% to 21% according to expert calculations. Also the PvdA voters often live in the neighbourhoods where those cars pass, where people actually live shorter. It's half a pack of cigarettes at a time. How does the PvdA see on the one hand the implementation of the energy agreement and, on the other hand, the promotion of dirtier lease cars? It's 22% more dirty cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u26	It was time to go back to more normal leasing rates, because all cars, including dirty cars, have to contribute to the cost of the road. It is therefore a good thing that we are going back to normal add-on rates. If you read the Autobrief correctly, you can see that grosso modo is the picture.Don't take me on a specific type of car that makes smaller cars relatively cheaper and that more expensive cars have to be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u27	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u28	Mr Groot is apparently looking at figures different from me, because I see clearly the addition for the toughest and dirtiest category, which is now at 25%, going down. I don't understand why the PvdA supports that part of the Car Letter. You would expect the PvdA, in view of trying to achieve the goals of the energy agreement, to wonder why we are making heavy and dirty leasing cars cheaper at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u29	There is also an agenda of simplification behind it. We're going to go to a general percentage of 22. The percentage below 25 was very small. For those cars, it's gonna be a little cheaper. On the other hand, a lot of economical models are becoming relatively cheaper. You cannot get everything; this is just the compromise we have reached. All in all, it is, as far as we are concerned, a sound and environmentally sound whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u30	This has already been discussed extensively in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u31	That's right, but apparently there's always questions about it. I was talking about possible tax overstimulation of electric cars when the real storm starts. I believe that the Secretary of State gave a clear answer to this in his letter this morning: should the electric cars be overstimulated in a few years' time or, to put it more positively, if less tax incentives are needed to enable electric driving to take over the market, then we can tailor the tax facilities more quickly. This can be done through emergency legislation, and I can deal with that. Then we may be able to use our tax resources more effectively. Finally, I come to LPG. Mr Van Vliet said something about this. I agree with his observation that this point is getting a little out of hand in this debate. I am sympathetic to Mr Van Vliet's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u32	Mr. Chairman. I am still chewing on Mr Groot's last remark. If I understand correctly, he says we're gonna raise taxes soon if electric driving is a success. Then the electric drivers will know that too. Mr. Chairman. My group is very concerned about this law. That turned out to be already in the first term, so I won't repeat that. 10% higher CO emissions for the new fleet. 22% higher CO emissions from new lease cars. 100,000 electric cars less than in the baseline scenario. All this with reference to the European source policy, while car manufacturers have been given more time to comply with the rules after the NO-emissions fraud. On one point I am pleased: the work of the Van Weyenberg/Grashoff motion on the loading posts. This is a good step for the public loading posts, but there is still a world to win, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the work of the Van Weyenberg/Grashoff motion results in a reduced fixed rate for public loading posts;]] [[Whereas this is an important step forward for electric transport, but there is still a difference between the load on home charging, charging at public charging points and charging at the connection of a large user;]] [[calls on the Government to aim for a single fixed low tax rate on electricity for electric cars and to inform the Chamber by 1 October 2016 at the latest on how this could be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u33	On the export of the hybrids, I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a risk that plug-in hybrids, which are fiscally stimulated to purchase on the business market, will be exported as soon as the lease contract expires;]] [[Whereas in the private second-hand market there is a greater price incentive to drive electrically with the plug-in hybrids, which is conducive to air quality in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor and report to the Chamber where the plug-in hybrids end after the lease period;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the partial rate of the vehicle tax should be maintained in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u34	I have also co-signed two motions by Mrs Van Tongeren. One motion calls for a further investigation into road pricing and the other for an investigation into electric cars, which states how we can actually achieve the fine goals set out in the motion by Mr Jan Vos of the Labour Party, to sell only electric cars from 2015 onwards. I still have a final move, about the desired simplification. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the more than 50 exemptions and exemptions in car taxes are fraud-prone and the implementation of the Tax Office costs around €70 fte and €4.5 million per year;]] [[Whereas these exemptions delay the transition to emission-free transport, as the sectors concerned do not have an incentive to opt for cleaner vehicles;]] [[calls on the Government to explore how to reduce the number of special car tax schemes, with the sectors concerned being compensated in a targeted manner outside taxation;]] [[Invites the Government to send this reconnaissance to the Chamber by Princess Day 2016 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u35	These are two odd motions. We are talking today about a bill that will secure car taxes for about the next five years. Then you can come up with an amendment to maintain the half-rate for the Mitsubishi Outlanders. That was the first motion. But then it would also adorn a party to say that it covers that from a small increase left or a small increase right. The same applies to the abolition of exemptions. You can choose to do that, but why does the D66 group come to the end of a journey where all car taxes are recorded for the next five years, with the idea of talking about it again next year? With that, D66 goes right through the whole idea of the Car Letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u36	That's not right. Let's start with those exceptions. We're all looking for a way to do it in such a way that we can give it back. How do we give the fire department or the police money so they can buy more economical fire and police cars themselves? The same applies to taxis, vans and so on. Moreover, there is still no clarity about this backlock. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to continue to do so. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has also made this call for simplification. Apparently, now it's not working out the idea of the backlock. The Secretary of State did not choose to do so after the previous debate. We say, "Don't bury that subject; study on it, search for variants." That seems to me to be a quest in which I expect Mr Omtzigt to be at my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u37	I note that Mr Van Weyenberg is not responding to the first point. Why does the D66 group not provide cover to maintain the half-rate? What other taxes does she want to raise? On the second point, no D66 amendment has been tabled and it will be very easy to vote against it. D66 then has to see for itself what it thinks, but then we don't know what the car taxes would have looked like if D66 were in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u38	I think that's a bit of a weird reproach. I believe that since the start of this legislative process I have been crystal clear about what my group wants. There is an amendment, tabled together with Mrs Van Tongeren, by the way. The Secretary of State says it's gonna be okay with the export. This motion calls for monitoring, because if that goes wrong, the Secretary of State must intervene. I think that's a good way to do it. Moreover, Mr Omtzigt himself mentions a variant in his amendment on fully electric cars. So I think it's a really bizarre reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply last week and for the letter he sent in response to the amendments tabled. I must confess that I was late in tabling my amendments so that they could not be included in the letter. We have tabled two more amendments today, which I would like to explain here. First of all, an amendment designed not to reduce the diesel surcharge, which is stated in the letter, but to keep it equal and to use its proceeds to reduce the bpm a little further. In doing so, I have tried to help the Secretary of State's great desire to reduce the bpm a little faster. At the same time, I would like an incentive to look at more economical cars. I think that's win-win. My second amendment partly responds to the wider concerns that exist here about the export of hybrid plug-ins that come from the lease into the private market and are about to face a three-quarters addition to the vehicle tax. This is a bit technical, but I think most people understand. We would like these cars to remain interesting on the Dutch market as well. We put a lot of money into it to subsidise them. It is then wise to keep them attractive on the Dutch market. Nor should all those individuals who have already purchased such a car be punished for that. We cover that by letting the addition for the plug-ins go earlier to the 22% rate. We also think we can encourage private individuals to be able to drive cheaply. We share the government's ambition to move quickly to electric driving and also to focus on an ambitious source policy. I have heard the Secretary of State say something about this in his term, but I would like to confirm, or perhaps the commitment, that the Cabinet is indeed very keen to deploy quickly after 2021 on a path towards 35 grams per kilometre and that it is really the ambition of the Cabinet to achieve that, perhaps faster than is planned now. I have indeed tabled a motion with the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the exemption. We had questions about this during the first consultation on the Car Letter, and that is why we co-signed this motion to make it even easier. Finally, I would like to make a motion with Mr Groot to encourage further efforts to ensure that polluting old diesels go off the road. That's something we're all trying to realize. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in 2019 the Government will introduce a surcharge on the vehicle tax for old highly polluting diesel system cars without a soot filter;]] [[Whereas many owners of diesel vans do not have sufficient resources to replace their old van;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a buy-back scheme for old diesel vans affected by the MRB surcharge and to allocate the proceeds of the surcharge to the financing of the scheme;]] [[In addition, in the event that the buying-in scheme is not put in place in time, the Government requests that the proceeds of the MRB payment be returned to a lower vehicle tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34391-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u40	Mr. Chairman. The PVV thinks this Car Letter is a missed opportunity. The Secretary of State believes he can steer climate gains more efficiently. In fact, we have seen how inefficient it was: €3,000 per tonne of CO reduction, while you are ready on the market for €5. The question to this Secretary of State is therefore how much climate gain he intends to achieve with this letter. Are we talking about €4,000 or €5,000 per tonne of CO reduction in a few years' time, while it can be on the market for €5? I do not see the efficiency and climate gains in this letter. The Secretary of State also admits that the low addition to electric cars has no effect and yet he puts it at 4%. He also admits that the bpm should be simplified and actually completely abolished, but then he does the opposite. Instead of fewer CO categories, there are now more. That's a missed opportunity. The PVV also finds it incomprehensible that another bpm CO Christmas tree is being rigged. The question arises as to whether it would not be smarter to postpone this Car Letter. In the autumn, a new method of measurement will be introduced from Brussels, allowing the whole table to change again. There will be elections again at the beginning of next year, which will allow the support for this letter to change again. So are we not at risk of all kinds of interim changes, with risks of feasibility for the Tax Administration and after-taxation for the taxpayer? The Tax Office, the taxpayers and the car dealers are getting mad. I would like to receive a response from this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u41	The PVV spokesperson asked a number of questions about the climate. How much climate gain does this bill have to achieve in order for the PVV to vote for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u42	As I indicated in the first term, the PVV does not like fiscal instrumentalism. This Car Letter is another typical example of this. We've seen what happened to the previous car letter. The Court of Auditors has cut it to pieces. Five billion has gone through the well without any climate gains. There was zero extra CO reduction. That was the conclusion of the General Court. Now there's another one of those letters with a bpm Christmas tree, CO and you name it. This will have no effect again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u43	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u44	Then I do not understand the questions of the PVV about the climate, because the PVV is against no matter how much climate gains are being made. The PVV says that it does not like fiscal instrumentalism, but I think it is something else: the PVV does not like the climate. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u45	Mr Van Dijck is well aware that we are going to significantly reduce these subsidies of €3,000 per tonne of CO and that the whole letter is based on the aim of putting an end to this tax over-subsidisation and going back to the normal addition rate. Is Mr Van Dijck serious about his proposal to postpone this Car Letter? Did he even talk to the industry? I do not think that you can do the industry, the ANWB and the car dealers any worse than once again creating uncertainty about the future of car tax. They liked it so much that it was clear now, that it would be simpler and better to explain, that there would be less market distortion and you name it. I cannot make that argument, but perhaps Mr Van Dijck can give a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u46	I told you, this is a missed opportunity. The car letter could be much simpler. The PVV is for lower taxes for everyone. The letter we received today from the Secretary of State says that there is a new measurement method coming from Brussels and that the Secretary of State is seriously considering using two additional CO tables within the bpm. Then, at the end of next year, we will have four CO tables for the bpm, while the Secretary of State is actually in favour of abolishing the bpm. What do we get instead? Four CO tables that drive us all crazy. The dealers and taxpayers no longer know what they are doing, and this does nothing for the environment, just as it has done nothing for the environment over the past five years. The Secretary of State speaks in his letter about substantial changes in the tax administration's systems. When it comes to adjustments to the tax authorities' systems, I'm already holding my heart. He even talks about two additional tables in the bpm during the transition period. Who's making this up? Four additional CO2 tables for the bpm, while we should want a simple simplified bpm. Finally. Nor does the Secretary of State have an answer to parallel imports, and I find that frightening. 150,000 of the 400,000 newly sold cars are imported in parallel. A third of the new cars come from parallel imports. He even calls it an entire industry; an industry that is trying to avoid the bpm and threatens to contaminate the entire car industry. It should appeal to left-wing parties to do something about avoiding the bpm; think of the Panama Files. The Secretary of State stands by and looks at it. There's nothing he can do about it. He must not do anything about it, because the rules of the internal market in Brussels prevent them from doing so. What he can do is to abolish or speed up the phasing-out of the bpm, so that the whole industry goes bankrupt in one blow. But no, it won't. The PVV is afraid that due to the current complex system of bpm parallel imports will increase rather than decrease. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Did he investigate that? If he agrees with me, why doesn't he intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply in the first term, both in writing and orally. However, a few points remain open. First of all... We didn't ask who the Ministry had contact with, but how many times have there been contact. I would like to hear the table with the number of contacts, because that was the question. Second. We have tabled two amendments and I should like to come straight to the heart of the Car Letter. It is quite a good letter, but there is a misunderstanding about the electric car in a number of parties in the House of Representatives, namely that when you see beautiful cars that are part of a breakthrough technology, you have to subsidise them completely. Really! I hear someone say, "Well, totally..." That's right, Mrs van Tongeren: 80% tax discount is paid on these cars. The average Dutchman dares to dream of that. Of the Tesla 300,000 were sold in three days, because it is a beautiful car and a nice breakthrough. I miss the reason why the Dutch lease driver only has to pay €45 net per month to drive a Tesla. The poor home care worker or the poor plumber who has to take care of his own van pays a multiple to drive his own car, even if it is a third-hand Volkswagen Lupo. It's okay, but it's not fair. In this respect, Mr Bashir had a point: this is maintained for the happy few, until everyone else does, because then we are going to lift it. Let's do it in moderation. We learned that from the Mitsubishi Outlander. We have ruined billions of grants here, as the General Court also wrote. The same mistake is now being made again. That is why the CDA Group has tabled two amendments, one of which aims to increase the add-on rate from 4 to 10. That's still a big discount on 22%. It may be stimulated, but we're not crazy Henkie. I am tabling the second amendment because some parties do not want the first, because the deal in I do not know what kind of concrete has been poured. It is an emergency braking procedure so that the Secretary of State can quickly make adjustments per AMvB if the case gets out of hand, otherwise the rest of the Netherlands can pay for it. I think I provoked an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u48	Yeah, I bet you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u49	CDA did it. How much contact has Mr Omtzigt had with the RAI Association, the BOVAG and PON to reach the position that the CDA is now taking? And then I don't even ask for all the e-mails. The Secretary of State understands the nature of the interruption, I can see from his smile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u50	Once at the most. Those with whom I have e-mailed the most are the representatives of Tesla.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u51	Thank you for that answer. I am surprised that Mr Omtzigt has not contacted the other organisations in the industry in order to reach this position. How does the CDA intend to achieve a transition? The CDA election programme says a lot about the transition to a clean economy and until this morning I thought the CDA was an enthusiastic supporter of the energy agreement. How does the CDA reconcile this amendment on increasing taxes on the only larger electric car that is a decent competitor for the heavy Audi's and BMW's, with the support to get the energy agreement implemented? Because they don't go together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u52	They do go together. We propose an addition rate of 10. Then the average Teslalease driver doesn't pay the person who buys a private car just over €100 net per month for that new car. With that, that car is cheaper than any other lease car. There's been an idiotic misunderstanding at GroenLinks and D66. They think that the government should pay the full cost if cars are beautiful and clean. But if we do that, we're really coming home from a cold carnival. Indeed, I have e-mailed, texted and talked to more than anyone else. I haven't met any other agency more than once. In fact, no one's whispered this to me. The annoyance about what was asked was so great with me. Let me remind you of the learning effect of the Mitsubishi Outlander. The amendment tabled by Mr Huizing and myself was supported by the PVV spokesperson, Mr Van Vliet. That was 76 seats. The entire House of Representatives laughed at us in 2011. We would see ghosts, but it cost a billion, because the rest of the Chamber didn't want to go and found 0% addition for the Mitsubishi Outlander, the Volvo V60 and those kind of cars in place. We are still in the tradition that you should not overstimulate, but should do a degree of stimulation. Otherwise you get the behavior of a little boost and then zero; that really isn't going to be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u53	Mr Omtzigt and I are in complete agreement. That is why I tabled with him the amendment on the 10% addition to the IB. So I don't have to go into that. I want to correct a little thing, a factual matter. A Tesla is not a technological breakthrough. Electric motors have been around for decades. If we run out of batteries like that, he'll still burden the environment. Moreover, the range of action of a kindergarten level, so: no technological breakthrough, no subsidy. Ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u54	On that last point, we do not agree with Mr Van Vliet. I do not think we should study car technology here until the end. I come to the second point, namely the Worldwide harmonised Light Vehicles Test Procedures (WLTP). We will receive a letter at the end of the year on how they are implemented. The Secretary of State is very easy to get around: for the bpm it is easy to enter, because for a new model you pay the new bpm and for an old model the old bpm. But there are two other car taxes, namely the mrb and the lease addition. Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State intends to apply the CO value applicable at the time of registration to the mrb that is paid? Thus, if the CO value changes, cars allowed to change the test procedure on the road will be charged a single rate and identical cars allowed to do so will be charged a different rate. And where is the greatest effect? I'm sorry to mention it again, but that's in the semi-electric cars. We suspect they'll be over 50 grams. Then the 7% add-on is no longer applicable, but the 22% add-on. So it's gonna be three times as expensive. Does that mean that the old cars remain below the old ones and that two identical cars may differ 200% in addition, just because one got on the road later than the other? Or doesn't it mean that? We would very much like to have a clear answer to this before the end of the year. There is a second problem, namely the bpm refund. Mr Van Dijck was already working on imports and exports for a reason. You'll get a piece of your bpm back, but it may be later that you'll get more bpm back than you ever paid for export. I am very sorry for the whole import and export company we have been talking about before. I would like to have a detailed explanation of this at the end of 2016. I'm not going to make any motions on that right now, but this is supposed to cause some serious headaches in the Treasury Department. They may have shouted about the Panama Papers, but now the Secretary of State can put this back on their desks. For the rest, we have some sympathy with Mrs Schouten's proposal that, in addition to paying extra taxes on old diesel vans, we should also ensure that there is an incentive to take them off the road. As I said in the first term, it is often people who have been working for ten years and not immediately have thousands of euros ready for a new van. I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will take a positive look at this in order to work something out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u55	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand the Secretary of State can answer directly. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u56	Mr. Chairman. I try to set up the housework in such a way that I deal with the questions first, then with the amendments and then with the motions. I'll start with the questions. Mr Van Vliet has drawn attention to foreign plates. That's how I know him. He has, by the way, made a warm plea against instrumentalism which I support. On the foreign plates, I'd like to return to the six-month report. As a result, I would like to have a debate with him and, no doubt, with Mr Omtzigt. Mrs Schouten asked about the commitment of the Netherlands to resource policy and CO emissions. As we know, we have discussed this in the first period, and the European Commission will make a proposal. As soon as the Commission has come up with that proposal, I will ask the Secretary of State for I and M, and the commitment is clear and in line with what I said in the first term to give the Chamber a response on the further steps and the further commitment of the Netherlands. Let us establish one thing about resource policy: it works, it is most efficient, you get the most climate gain for your euro. Then Mr Van Dijck, if I may call that a philosophical question, asks where efficiency has gone. In terms of efficiency, I understand his argument very well, but we are working on the biggest clean-up of car taxes ever. The subsidy that we have found does not lead to efficiency and climate gains, we are building it up quite quickly. I stated in my letter this morning that I am also prepared to close the door in some way in order to avoid oversubsidisation. Yes, I do want to reduce the bpm, as I indicated in the first term. However, as I said, this cannot be done at once. Indeed, if we cut the bpm in one go, we would organise a kind of large-scale expropriation for all fleet managers or fleet owners at once. That is not possible, it must be even, because the value of existing car parks depends on the new price of new cars. So I don't want to organise this expropriation here at the expense of fleetowners and leasing companies. It has to be slow. I might have wanted that sooner, but that is not wise in every way. Mr Van Dijck is concerned about the measurement method, and he shares these concerns with Mr Omtzigt. He shares those concerns with someone else, and he shares them with me. In Mr Omtzigt's words, I do not want to turn around a hot potato. I'd like to name the hot potato, but this is separate from the bill. We have to go through a period of time anyway, and I am very concerned about the transition from one table to another. Of course, it doesn't yield any climate gains. It is true that consumers have a better understanding of what such a car uses in practice. However, I do not look forward to that exercise, because that transition is not going to be easy. It has nothing to do with this, but I can say, in response to both gentlemen, that during this year I will come back to the question of how this should be done. It may well be that Mr Van Dijck is right in saying that this has to do with the temporary complexity of that legislation. I am certainly not waiting for that, but there is no other way to do that, and that is separate from this bill. Furthermore, my sympathy is entirely with the two gentlemen who have raised this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u57	It's about turning the hot stuff, not about a hot potato.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u58	I believe that there was a twist around the potato, and I would like to add myself to the words of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u59	It's getting all over the place, but the Secretary of State isn't doing that right now. Can I see this as a commitment to return both to the addition for lease cars and to the MRB addition in that letter from the end of 2016? The Secretary of State is right: that's not part of this, but it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u60	Yes, and Mr Omtzigt can also see this as a commitment that I will fight for an enforceable system until then. The Netherlands has made the system the most CO dependent and now also suffers most from this transition. It's not something to be happy about. Mr Omtzig asked about the contacts. I have, as good and as angry as I am, raked my own agenda, and the letter states the number of contacts I have had. As far as colleagues are concerned, given the limited time I had, I have had to refer to the WOB request and the numbers are also to be found. I have not yet given him the contacts he had with the State Treasury, but I think he was just asking. I have collected them and I can say something about them. As part of the working time of this letter, there has been five official contacts of Finance with the broad coalition, namely RAI, BOVAG, VNA, ANWB and Nature & Environment. There has been four official contacts with Tesla during that period, one with Pon Holding and no less than six with the LPG industry. I am through the questions and then there is a huge pile of amendments that I am trying to get through from now on. For Mrs Schouten's amendment to item No. I have already shown understanding in the first term about the non-reduction of the diesel surcharge. Accepting this amendment would mean that diesel and petrol would benefit equally in euros from the reduction. I really want to leave this amendment to the House. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18 by Mrs Schouten and Mr Groot on the extension of the half-rate for two more years, to be financed from an addition which then goes directly to 22% for the plug-ins. This amendment creates a shift from incentives from new to second-hand and from business to private. From business to private, I am now trying to catch the eye of Mr Bashir, who made a big point of this last time. It is covering, it is feasible and it is not contrary to the energy agreement. I will leave this to the judgment of the Chamber. The emergency procedure is special. I made a proposal in this morning's letter, but this amendment by Mr Omtzigt is still a bit firmer. He proposes the shortest possible route to a possible adjustment of the addition for zero emission cars if necessary. That's a special figure. It goes through an AMvB, but it goes through both chambers. Frankly, I am not so opposed if the Chamber chooses to influence policy and legislate in this way. The legislative process is certainly more beautiful, but I have to admit that this is faster. We discussed it and I leave it to the Chamber, because it is up to her to decide how she influences policy and how she legislates. In the amendment to item No. 20 zero emissions shall be brought to 10%. I understand that Mr Van Vliet has signed with us. This is what I find pulling the emergency brake when we're not there yet. I would advise against this amendment. In their motion in part No. 21 on the mapping of payment options for use and so on, Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr van Weyenberg ask something of course, because I have repeatedly repeated that during this period the cabinet does not introduce payment to use and moves on this dossier in an attending and question-answering sense. This motion does not seem appropriate, and I therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u61	Before you go any further, a brief question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u62	I don't quite understand. I know the cabinet does not intend to do so, but this comes from an agreement in the energy agreement to map options properly. Then why rule out a few options in advance? I am not suggesting at all that it should be introduced, but just that you map out all the different options well, so that you can make a well-balanced choice at some point that will probably be a next government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u63	The passage in the Energy Agreement is that the government attends the meetings and questions from industry and social parties are answered. Mapping options is another role and it doesn't fit in. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. That does not mean, however, that these motions are somehow excluded. They're not being embraced, either. I'm saying something about mapping and not about the variants themselves. In the motion in part No. 22 ask Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Van Weyenberg about mapping scenarios with growth models, intermediate targets and evaluations. They also refer to the Vos motion. My colleague, the Minister of EZ, will respond with a letter to the Vos motion. I think it fits better in that context. I would suggest to the proposers that they hold the motion. If they are not prepared to do so, I must say that it is superfluous, because it is the minister of EZ who is in the process and has promised a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u64	The advantage of a small group is that you do a lot of different debates. In the case of cars, the Minister of Economic Affairs usually refers first to this State Secretary and then to the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment, who refers back to this State Secretary. That's why I'm trying this time here. This motion is also merely asking for the scenarios to be mapped out. The energy agreement is in place and I am really at the right place with this Secretary of State to ask how this should be done in tax terms. The relevant paragraph of the Energy Agreement clearly states that this is only implemented by means of fiscal measures. With the other two rulers, I am consistently blunt. This Secretary of State is about tax measures. That's part one. If the Secretary of State says "take out the part of the Vos motion and then I'm willing to do it," I'm willing to take that piece out of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u65	If a statement is made, it does not mean that the substance is lost. My suggestion to the authors is to hold this motion until Minister Kamp has delivered his letter. There is no point of contact here; the Minister for Economic Affairs has promised to come up with a letter on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u66	Hold, withdraw or put to the vote, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u67	I think we're gonna stop. I have to ask written questions to all three directors at the same time, I suspect, after we have received the letter from Minister Kamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u68	At the request of Mrs Van Tongeren, I propose her motion (34391, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u69	With Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 23 The cabinet is invited to make proposals to maintain the lease-plug cars for the Dutch market. That is a coincidence, because in the amendment to item No. 18 Members of Mrs Van Tongeren come up with suggestions to do exactly that and to cover that. With that amendment and my opinion on it in mind, I would then like to advise against this motion, because it goes less far than the amendment on item No. 18. I therefore advise against this motion. Mrs Neppérus, with her motion on item No. 24 to book and lock back the proceeds of the diesel surcharge in the mrb. I think that is very sympathetic and understandable. At the same time, a refund lock in a scrapping premium has been proposed elsewhere in the package. I do not want to impose my views on the Chamber, but frankly that seems to me to be more meaningful. I'm talking about the motion in part No. 29 of the Christian Union and the Labour Party. How do I sympathize with the idea in the motion in part No. 24, I think that the more far-reaching in the motion in part No. 29 witty thoughts more sympathetic. I suggest that Mrs Neppérus consider withdrawing this motion, should she agree with me on the order of desirability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u70	Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u71	Otherwise, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I think there is a hierarchy of attraction and I ask Mrs Neppérus to let her think about it, but there is absolutely nothing against it. If she does not withdraw the motion, I shall leave this motion to the House's discretion. One does, however, exclude the other. Mr Van Vliet is concerned in his motion on item No. 25 to the LPG industry. I don't know how many times they've been to see him! I don't see a call here that I can do anything with right now. The break-evenpoint is between 11,000 and 16,000 kilometers. It's the lowest taxes per kilometer. They are by far the lowest excise duty per litre, but by far the lowest excise duty per litre. I see no reason to get in the way of this motion. I think the level playing field, in the way I have just outlined, is sufficiently present. I advise against this motion. The Van Weyenberg/Van Tongeren motion in part No. 26 is about one fixed low tax rate on electricity for electric cars. We have discussed this in detail within the framework of the Tax Plan. Firstly, the charging posts are not the bottleneck here and secondly, I should not think that I should find a way to distinguish home loading from home use. I have done with great sympathy what I could for Mr Van Weyenberg's initiative at the time, which I also wrote entirely on the conto of the Chamber. I did it with love, but I don't see any clues to move on. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 27 on maintaining the half-rate in the mrb. That is actually the same advice as Mrs Van Tongeren's earlier motion. Do we have two of those? Something's going wrong here, I guess, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u72	One motion goes a little further than the other. I know what the Secretary of State is about to say, but I will continue this motion pending the vote on Mrs Schouten's and Mr Groot's amendments. That amendment covers the issue of hybrid cars, but I shall wait for the vote first and hold my motion. I will not put the motion to the vote if it is already implemented through the amendment. That would be a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u73	At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I propose his motion (34391, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u74	In the motion in part No. 28 the government is invited to explore how the number of special car tax schemes can be reduced. I have looked for the basis for all these special arrangements and not found it in all honesty, despite a rather extensive probe. The phasing-out would be a considerable simplification, as I said in my first term, but it would also affect all kinds of sub-sectors. I would only like to instruct the department to map this if there is a large majority in favour of it. In order to test that, I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I say in advance that it affects all kinds of target groups. Those who face this are the ones who I consider to accept, but at the time the basis for this was too limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u75	Perhaps for the sake of explanation: it is also possible to make a variant for it. For example, when police cars become more expensive, the money goes back to the police. That is what the motion is asking for. I understand what the Secretary of State is asking for, and we will see that in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u76	That's right. I have also heard that no one needs to be destitute, but that there are opportunities for tax incentives. I accept that in gratitude, but nevertheless leave the proof of the pudding at the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u77	This motion is also a follow-up to a call I made earlier to see if there are any good reasons for it by exemption; what is for it and what is against it? Is the cure still responding to the target? There could be such a note, which has been repeatedly asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u78	If that's what the Chamber asks for along those lines, there will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u79	The aim of the proposers in this variant is that by using the proceeds, for example, the police get more money and thus can buy the cars. The aim of the motion is to give back the proceeds as specifically as possible, so that the sectors are as small a mark as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u80	I have heard Mr Van Weyenberg's reasons very well. What is even more important is that the Members who will have to vote on this matter have heard Mr Van Weyenberg's reasons very well. The motion in part No. 29 is very sympathetic and just stopped by when I spoke about Mrs Neppérus' motion. In Mrs Schouten's motion and Mr Groot's motion, it is to channel the proceeds of the roettaks, to name but a few, back to the target group and to enable them to be replaced with a small incentive by a buy-back scheme. That's both pulling and pushing towards less soot. I find this sympathetic in all kinds of ways, and it calls for me to map this out. Everyone sees that frameworks are being exceeded and that there is a lot going on here, but it is not without chance and I would be very motivated to work out and implement this. Now, after the President's letter on the new figure to take over the motion, I hesitated whether I would even experiment with it. However, I do not want to brusque Mrs Neppérus, who may want it in another way. So I'm gonna leave that over for a while and leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u81	That's the motion in part No. 24. If nobody's against it, we can...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u82	I thought Mrs. Neppérus needed some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u83	I support the vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u84	Then the motion will be on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u85	This brings us to the end of the discussion of the legislative proposal. We will vote on the amendments and motions next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u86	Last time it was said that because there was a hurry, the vote would take place on Thursday. That is not a problem in itself. I believe that everyone is ready with the amendments and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u87	Is the rush a wish or a necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u88	It's a wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u89	There is a desirability of acceleration but no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-26.u90	Then we'll just vote on Tuesday.
