ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. You sometimes sit here in complicated debates, but I know that this is a debate that you are very interested in and that you are always very busy with. So I think it will be a good night for you too to be able to preside over this debate. Let it be clear that the CDA Group will support the proposal before us. The current migration crisis shows every day how horrible the smuggling of human beings is. There's a lot of punishment for that. The Netherlands is somewhat behind when you look at it within Europe. It's a good thing we're pulling our legs together. We are in the top five birth countries of suspects of human trafficking, followed by Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Russia. On this point, too, this bill is an important improvement. We did not want to turn it into a hammer piece, because there is something to say about it. In the note following the report, the government stated that it is quite honest in itself that it cannot, in fact, justify quantitatively that an increase in the penalty ceiling will actually reduce the number of offences. There's not exactly a demonstrable correlation. In a sense, this bill has a signaling function. The government hopes that it will act as a deterrent. We hope so with her. But why did the government choose not to open up? In the note following the report, the Secretary of State indicates how many persons have been prosecuted and sentenced in the period 2011-2015. Then why doesn't he write that this number is falling every year? The AD has made a very nice overview of this. It is quite clear that the punishments are getting lower and fewer and fewer people are being prosecuted and sentenced. Unfortunately, we cannot tell each other that things have all gotten better. If the Secretary of State states that he is rightfully in a fierce fight against human trafficking, why is it not said that the number of people in prison is falling? The question is, of course, why. We do not just want to know, because this question is also asked by two Tilburg professors, Rijken and Van Reisen, the experts in this matter. Van Reisen advocates better international cooperation. Can the Secretary of State answer that? This can be improved between the European Member States, as can cooperation with the Turkish authorities. It's not optimal. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Has progress been made in all negotiations? And what else is he gonna do about this? In order to effectively prosecute trafficking in human beings, it is also necessary for the Netherlands and other Member States to be able to exercise their jurisdiction over suspects within Turkish and Greek borders if necessary. It doesn't really matter where it happens, as long as the smugglers are arrested and tried. The decline in the number of people in prison in recent times will not be entirely due to the not always smooth international cooperation. Then what is it? Police unions complain that the regulation is in the way of Dutch agents in the fight against trafficking in human beings. At border controls they can still, as it seems, only look in hindquarters and blinded vans if there is a serious, well-founded suspicion. For a long time we've been playing this game. The Secretary of State and the Minister have said that obstacles will be removed, but have there been measures taken on this issue? I know the SP has a guest visiting today; he will now look somewhere else. He is a truck driver with an interest in politics and recognizes that sometimes it is very complicated that you are playing a role in it, because of the enormous threat posed by smugglers to bring someone along. He knows cases where people have felt threatened. These are very important points. We need meters to improve things in this area as well. We want to know whether the major obstacles to effective border controls have finally come to an end. We know there's all kinds of heat cameras. Why aren't they used much more often? Doesn't the police need it where? Until recently, we do not know whether this has actually changed in practice, and that a maximum of six trains per route, for example from Venlo to Düsseldorf, were allowed to be searched daily. This was only allowed until half an hour after the border crossing or until the second station after the border, if it is more than half an hour's journey. On the whole railway network 40 trains could be searched daily and up to four coupés per train. Is this crazy finally over and can it be effectively controlled? We have talked about this several times. The Minister indicated that he was working on this in Europe. I actually want to know: is it settled now? By flight route, half of the passengers may be asked for their passports within the Schengen area. To what extent is this an obstacle for smugglers? It is serious that the police are faced with as few obstacles as possible. If we pass all kinds of laws, then the number of penalties in practice drops and the police say she can't do anything, what are we doing? If we really want to show that we are serious, is it really appropriate to be able to impose a punishment which is partly community service? Isn't it a very strange signal to link community service to it when you say it must be a very high sentence because it's a very serious crime? We all know the horrible stories. We also want to know how wide we need to see the description of the crime. That practice surprises us every time. You can't imagine how bad someone is. Of course, it's terrible that you're smuggling people, but in the dramas of the Mediterranean, people just make money selling cardboard life jackets. Kids drown because they think they're wearing a life jacket while they're wearing some kind of suit that pulls them down. Does that fall under the description of the crime, or is there another way we can deal with it? Finally, I come to financial concerns and capacity concerns in dealing with trafficking in human beings. The note following the report states that the national police, the KMar and the Public Prosecutor's Office consider the increase in the penalty ceiling for trafficking in human beings to be some kind of back-up support for the intensification of their activities. But the question is, of course, what means are available to these organisations to put away a long-term and intense approach. Does the Secretary of State also take this issue with his Minister of Security and Justice to ensure that there is sufficient budget in the police to catch the smugglers, to be able to detect and to act? We congratulated the new chief of police today. We are very pleased with his clear language. He says if he doesn't get a little more space, he's gonna have to cut back eventually. Surely it is not possible for another, so important priority of this cabinet to fall short? If the police have to cut back, there's no way we're going through that. Neither is the Secretary of State, I hope. If we really want to do something about trafficking, for example, we will have to ensure that it is effective and that the police have the space, otherwise we will have a real debate here before the stage. And we can't take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u2	I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings is a major problem which controls both the borders of Europe and the Netherlands. Unfortunately, we know the harrowing images of too many people in shady boats all too well. They've been put in there for a lot of money by smugglers. The approach to human trafficking is therefore very important for my group. D66 believes that the approach should be effective, but it is not clear whether the increase in penalties for trafficking in human beings is the most effective solution to tackling trafficking in human beings. That is also what the Council of State says: "The explanatory statement does not show that the current maximum levels of penalties in practice for detection and prosecution cause problems, nor that in the case of convictions in the area of trafficking in human beings, the judge needs a higher maximum sentence in the determination of penalties." I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. I read in the cabinet's proposal that the main reason for increasing the penalty ceilings is the deterrent and normative effect of the measure. Is this scientifically substantiated? What is the effect of increasing penalties in practice? Are there any fewer human smugglers? Does this indeed have a deterrent effect? The smugglers who need to be punished for this high level of punishment are operating at the top of international smuggling organisations. Are they really going to change their mind twice and are they really going to stop their work because of the terrifying effect that the increase in penalties in the Netherlands brings? I'd like a response. Tackling human trafficking is a priority at this time. The Cabinet indicates that it has begun an intensified chain approach to combat trafficking in human beings. Good, I say. According to the cabinet, this will increase the chances of getting caught and more severe penalties will have to be imposed. Hence also this law, says the Secretary of State. But this chain approach has been in operation for two years. The Council's figures for the case-law show that the chances of getting caught are still not rising. In fact, the odds of getting caught are dropping. The number of convictions for trafficking in human beings has fallen and fewer cases are brought before the courts due to lack of evidence. Should we not focus on the chain approach which does not yet produce results, rather than talking about an increase in the penalty rate tonight? What has the Cabinet done to improve the approach? What is the government doing to ensure that smugglers actually go to court? How can we ensure that the prosecution can find better evidence so that smugglers can be convicted? How is cooperation at European level, as these are often international organisations? I would like to see some effective measures for this. I'm gonna stick with that effectiveness for a while. As far as criminal law is concerned, the Netherlands is an average country. Twelve Member States are punishing less severely and 15 Member States are punishing more severely. We sit neatly in the middle. How are these Member States doing? Which country has a more effective approach? In any case, I would like to know whether the approach taken by those countries that are more severely punished is also more effective. What is the impact of the penalty measure on the approach? A comparison between European countries could prove that very well. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to my request if he's prepared to carry out such an investigation. Mr President, I am once again ready for my final point. Especially in view of my previous point on a competition, I wonder why this bill is urgent. That is what the Council of State does to me, by the way. Why is there not a competition, as the Council of State also asks? First of all, make sure that the chain approach works better and that the chance of being caught goes up, so that smugglers are actually brought to justice. Let us take effective action, or has this bill been tabled to hide the fact that the chain approach is not yet working and that there is much work to be done? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u4	In addition to, of course, the answer given by the Secretary of State, how much do you consider your concerns about effectiveness in your final assessment? I do not think you can rule out the possibility that it has a deterrent effect, and that is why it would be worth a great deal to me if D66 were to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u5	The Council of State says that we do have the possibilities, but that the measures taken so far do not seem to increase the chances of getting caught. I'd bet on that very quickly, to begin with. Furthermore, increasing the level of punishment is not an end in itself, because it is a means. If you're gonna use that drug, you're gonna have to be sure it works. However, the Council of State indicates that it is not well substantiated. If the Secretary of State can back it up later, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u6	I note, however, that at the moment you do not think that the justification is sufficient and that you are actually in favour of the current penalty for the basic offence of four years, even though you know that the countries around us have a higher level of punishment. I'd love to not be out of line with those countries!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u7	If it's clear that it's necessary, I don't want to get out of line either. I see that a number of Member States have less severe penalties and a number of Member States have stricter penalties. If it turns out those higher penalties are more effective, I don't see why I couldn't support the bill. However, it could also be the case that those countries which are less severely punished and instead take measures to increase the chances of being caught may eventually have a more effective policy. The Council of State therefore also says: do competition. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State why he did not do that research and whether he is going to do that research. Again, it's not a goal, it's a means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. The current influx of migrants into the European Union is accompanied by degrading human trafficking practices. The entry and transit of migrants into the European Union is making a great deal of money. The benefits of illegal migration by criminals must be combated vigorously. That is why we are discussing this bill today, which aims to increase the penalty limits for trafficking in human beings. This is one of the measures resulting from the work of the Temporary Committee on Migration, which has been set up to propose appropriate and coordinated measures to counter the influx of migrants. Specifically, it is proposed to increase the current maximum sentence of four years imprisonment and a fine of the fifth category to six years imprisonment and a fine of the fifth category. There is also an increase in the threat of punishment under different criminally aggravating circumstances, to eight years, ten years, fifteen years and even eighteen years if the crime results in death. My group is sympathetic to raising the penalty ceilings, but we are still making a critical comment. The increase in the penalty ceilings must be accompanied by an increase in the chance of getting caught. Trafficking in human beings is a prime crime in which criminals act calculatingly or sell the proceeds against the risks. In order to increase the chances of capture, the boundaries need to be guarded again. Recently, the Secretary of State said so proudly that seven smugglers per week are being caught by stepping up mobile border controls. Can you see what the effect is if the 'old-fashioned' border controls, to put it another way, are re-established? That really increases the chance of getting caught. Hopefully, the Secretary of State also refers to the passage in the explanatory memorandum which talks about strengthening mobile surveillance in the internal border area, the so-called Mobile Surveillance Foreigners. I'd like to get a confirmation of this. In response to questions from my group, the Secretary of State replies that 929 suspects of human trafficking were transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the period 2011 to 2015. In the end, 336 people were sentenced to a custodial sentence and 122 were sentenced to community service. If you convert those numbers into percentages, that gives you the following. Approximately 52% of the suspects of trafficking in human beings are sentenced to custodial, community service or fine. 68% of those convicted are sentenced to a custodial sentence, some of which are conditional. I put a question to the Secretary of State for clarification. In his reply he always talks about the number of custodial sentences in which there was a conditional part. Can my group conclude from this that no totally conditional custodial sentences have been imposed for human trafficking? As many as 83% of those sentenced to a custodial sentence get a sentence of less than one year, of which more than half are also partially conditional. 83%! 13% were sentenced to two to three years' imprisonment, only 3% were sentenced to four years or five years' imprisonment and only 1% were sentenced to six years or more. The highest sentence of imprisonment was seven years. So judges are not even close to the current penalty ceilings in by far the majority of cases. The Secretary of State may hope that judges will be punished higher if the penalty ceilings are increased, but my group has a hard head in it. That is why my group continues to argue, and I shall mention it again; it will not surprise the Secretary of State for minimum penalties, or increase the penalty to be imposed at least in the event of a conviction for this crime. As I have just said, this must of course go hand in hand with increasing the chances of getting caught. The penalty risk, i.e. the sum of the chance of being taken together with the penalty imposed, must be considerably increased. Only then will there be a serious approach to the smuggling of human beings, or what the Secretary of State says he wants to achieve. Does he agree with my group? I fear that I can guess the answer and therefore I go into it in advance; but well, hope brings life. The Secretary of State is almost certainly going to say that the VVD and the PvdA have agreed, in the framework of the government agreement, that the minimum penalty bill is to be repealed. It is also withdrawn and that there is no reason to introduce the minimum penalty for incidental cases. But all of a sudden, these parties are all of a sudden! However, it is of the opinion that higher penalties are of normative effect. My group was on its own for a long time, too, but under pressure everything seems to become liquid. That is why I am asking whether minimum penalties can be introduced for human trafficking, not because my group wants it so badly, but because it is necessary to put an end to this serious crime. If the Secretary of State does not wish to do so, I would like to hear from him the undertaking that the penalties imposed for trafficking in human beings after the entry into force of this bill will be monitored. Then, after a few years, we can see whether the judges have indeed punished this crime more severely. To give an example why my group does not have a great deal of confidence in just raising the penalty ceilings, I would mention the recent increase in the penalty ceilings for trafficking in human beings. Despite this increase, judges have been punished less than in previous years. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that he did not agree with that statement by my group, but that is not a statement by my group but by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings in and out of the picture. Following that observation, the Secretary of State indicated that this would require further attention, that the national rapporteur had been asked to monitor this development and that she would examine it further if necessary. In reply to questions from my group, the Secretary of State may say that those lower penalties may be due to the minor gravity of the cases brought, but with certainty you cannot say that, because it has not been investigated. It is therefore necessary to examine, as soon as possible, what is the cause of this. Before you start making legislation, you need to see if what you have in mind is going to have the desired effect. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State does not do that on this point. I have said it many times and I keep repeating it: my group believes that minimum penalties should be introduced. Then you know for sure that judges will follow up, because it is legally established, to the feeling in society and in politics, rather than hoping that judges will care about increased penalty limits. Having said that, I would like to conclude by asking how many Dutch suspects of human trafficking have a double passport. This is because, in response to our questions, the Secretary of State indicated that in the period 2011-2015 the top five countries of suspect birth were: the Netherlands, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Russia. Finally, I would like to know whether these people, if they have a dual nationality, can be declared undesirable and deported if they are convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. There is, as it turns out, broad consensus on the need to tackle trafficking in human beings. That is not really something new under the sun, because trafficking in human beings is, of course, already a criminal offence. That fact, and the measure of punishment, four years in prison, already shows that trafficking in human beings is something that occurs in society and is very undesirable. We are now talking about the need to set a higher level of punishment. I will start with a quote from the explanatory memorandum to the bill: the current high influx of migrants into the European Union is accompanied by degrading smuggling practices. However, I would like to point out that these degrading circumstances existed before the influx into the asylum chain was so high, that is to say before the current high influx. Why wasn't there a bill like the one we're discussing at the time? The impression is that the bill now fits within the building of as many walls as possible at the borders of the European Union. That may be, that is a political view, but it is remarkable. It is only now that we find ourselves suffering from a high influx of asylum that suddenly there is a greater need to tackle trafficking in human beings. I also wonder what exactly are the alternatives that the cabinet advocates when it comes to using human smugglers by refugees. I have missed this point very much in the recitals to this bill. Such alternatives are, in fact, only small-scale. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the UN Organisation for Refugees, calls on us to resettle 460,000 people. That's a global call. The cabinet has not yet responded. I think that's a little shady. When a bill starts with such an intrusive sentence, "the current high influx of migrants into the EU is accompanied by degrading smuggling practices," it is a bit odd if you just want to go after the facts. If you want to say 'everyone we have in our sights and who is potentially guilty of smuggling people, we want to take a harder approach'............................................................................................................................................................................................... The people are now prepared to pay people smugglers thousands of euros and so much is apparently the need to come to a truly sustainable and safe country. I actually expected to be standing here with the Minister, so I was initially a little reluctant to raise this point. But since the Secretary of State is here tonight, and he is talking about immigration and asylum and is one of the main charmers of the migration crisis that we are facing, I urge him to ask this question. How does the Secretary of State intend to cast the suspicion that there is some hypocrisy about this? I am not yet saying that I think there is hypocrisy, but I can imagine that we are charging our suspicions. However, I agree that the smugglers of human beings should be dealt with. The SP Group is therefore not in a negative position with regard to the legislative proposal. They are criminals who, as Mrs Van Toorenburg has just made clear with the example of life jackets, are literally talking about corpses. They must therefore be arrested and punished. However, the question is whether this legislative proposal will really improve; I believe that the three colleagues I have heard have said so far, all in the same way. That is why I have the following critical questions. In the explanatory statement, there really is no clear explanation of how the increase contributes to discouragement. We go from four to six years, but does that help if smugglers don't let a four-year prison sentence scare them off? In addition to this, there may be a penalty aggravating circumstance, such as the deliberate deception of refugees by sending them into the wild water by means of a false swim vest, but if people do not allow themselves to be deterred by such a four-year sentence with potentially aggravating circumstances, why should they be deterred by a maximum sentence of six years? I find that mysterious and have not yet seen any sound justification and justification. The Council of State has also asked for this. The Secretary of State indicated in his response to the opinion of the Council of State that he was going to give it and the explanatory statement was amended on this point, but I could not find it. Only the fact that a higher level of punishment would send out a clear signal, including for the services involved in detection and prosecution, is, in my view, really not sufficient justification. Nor do I find a more detailed explanation of the impact that the legislative amendment will have on the EU Member States. The Secretary of State writes in his response to the written contributions of the political groups, and I believe, in response to the opinion of the Council of State, that this effect will be small, but I believe that this justification should be there. I would like to know what the impact will be on the EU Member States rather than just reading that it will be small. In what way is there any effect to be expected? Why will that effect be small? I think it is good that we will be more in line with the penalty ceilings in other European countries. So I understand that consideration. Then there is the current level of punishment and the question whether judges are up against the maximum. This question, too, has been put in writing by the Chamber, as well as by the Council of State. The fact that judges are running against the ceiling doesn't really prove to be the case. I understand there's been one conviction in the last five years that's gone down to seven years, but most of the other convictions were well under four years. So I really wonder why this increase is needed. I have not yet found that something needs to be repaired. As Mrs Van Toorenburg said earlier, that makes me critical, because I do not want to stand here feeling like I am taking part in a play. The Secretary of State has not made sufficiently clear why this legislative amendment is now necessary. In the meantime, what's being done with the chance of getting caught? What ambition can I pay the Secretary of State for? There have been around 100 convictions a year in the last five years. How many potential suspects are there, anyway? Suppose we could put this to a perfect search, how many potential suspects would we be able to catch up with? In other words, what exactly is the chance? In replying to the questions in the further report, the Secretary of State states that the spring decision will decide how much additional resources, if any, will be made available, but what additional resources will be available to better detect and prosecute smugglers? If there is no budget for services that now have to work together on the team that will do more to track down and punish smugglers, it is all very symbolic. There is now a common team, the GMST, consisting of police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Royal Marechaussee, but if there is no budget, the commitment will be at the expense of other priorities, we must note. This means that there will be less detection and less punishment of other forms of crime. I would like clarity on this point today. Is there gonna be extra money? Is that the commitment of the Cabinet and this Secretary of State to the spring decision-making process? Finally. A letter has come from the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children. She stressed the need for greater cooperation between the teams involved in trafficking in human beings and the teams dealing with trafficking in human beings. She says this is actually too much soldiering. According to her, this applies both to the services in the field, i.e. police, Public Prosecutor's Office and Royal Marechaussee, as well as to the policy makers. What is the position of the Secretary of State on this suggestion? Is he prepared to respond to this call? If so, how is he going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u10	Madam President. Ten years ago, no one had heard of it. Now it is a burning issue in national and international politics: human trafficking. I am not speaking this text for the first time, because I said this in 2000 when discussing human trafficking. That was in the wake of a book that had just been published. So we have already had quite a long time to do with a fight against this degrading phenomenon. Colleagues have also said that it is a serious crime. We all agree on that. It is an unacceptable exploitation of migrants. Smugglers at all levels are creating social injustice, contributing to the promotion of migrant flows, disrupting admission policies by leading people who, in the light of our legislation, cannot count on admission here. That criminality itself isn't that old. Article 197a was then a direct result of the 1990 implementation agreement of the Schengen Convention concluded in 1985. I also read back that in 1992 my predecessor Van den Berg expressed his concern that opening up national borders could lead to a draining effect on crime, an increase in illegal possession of firearms and insufficient opportunities to prevent illegal flows of refugees. That is indeed a problem which we have to deal with quite well today. I do not want to go into this in detail. I would like to address the point that we see more than ever the importance of mobile controls to detect human trafficking. In February, the Secretary of State said he wanted to step up mobile controls in the border area. The number of smugglers arrested has increased to 32 per month. However, in the most recent report on the alien chain, we see that the number of person checks carried out by the Royal Marechaussee in 2015 was lower than in the previous year. Due to the additional tasks, however, less control capacity was available for mobile surveillance security. We also see fewer foreigners without legal residence being found in the checks. We are concerned as to whether the strengthening of border controls has come to the fore. The government itself says that the Netherlands belongs to the top five birth countries of suspects of human trafficking. The Netherlands would be too attractive to smugglers because of the relatively low criminal threats compared to other countries. That is certainly a worrying point, but is the deterrent effect of a higher threat of punishment sufficient? How is it that countries with lower penalty limits for trafficking in human beings are not among the top five birth countries of smugglers? According to the government, the new level of punishment is more attuned to other countries, but a similar maximum of five to seven years has only countries such as Germany, France, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg and Slovakia. Quite a few other Member States, such as Cyprus, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and the United Kingdom, have a higher penalty limit of eight to ten years. Why is this threat of punishment sufficient in the State Secretary's view? Should this not be aligned with countries which appear to be compared? The criminality of preparing a crime shall be subject to a maximum sentence of eight years or more. So that is not the case for the basic human trafficking crime. Does the government consider that the basic crime of trafficking in human beings should not therefore be punishable by preparatory acts? It is striking that there is no information available on the criminal charges imposed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Why can't it actually be given? It would be very useful if you could have an analysis of the extent to which the Public Prosecutor is also running against the limits of the penalty limits. Colleagues have already pointed out that in most of the actual sentences a sentence of up to one year has been imposed. In 278 out of 336 cases where a person has been sentenced to a custodial sentence, there is such a low sentence. How does this relate to the punishment demanded by the D.A.? When it comes to the criminality of trafficking in human beings, it is also important where the crime was committed. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether both Dutch and foreign nationals living in the Netherlands can be prosecuted at any time for the crime of trafficking in human beings, even though they are active in Syria or Greece. Is it true that Article 7 of the Code of Criminal Law applies to everyone in the Netherlands, regardless of nationality? Those were the questions that I raised critically in the first term. It will be clear that we are sympathetic to the tenor, to the spirit of this bill: an increased commitment to the fight against trafficking in human beings and an increase in the penalty limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mr Gesthuizen, who is not in the Chamber right now, just started with a quote from the explanatory statement. My text also started with this, which is to say once again that there is currently an incredible influx of migrants into the European Union under sometimes truly degrading circumstances. We know all that footage from the television. This illegal entry and transit of migrants is made a lot of money by smugglers, who operate in international contexts, criminal partnerships and who do not hesitate to risk human lives with their activities. That urgent situation, given the large numbers, makes sense, as far as my group is concerned, not only for you to come up with such an emergency law, but also for you to take measures as proposed in this bill. That means you're raising the penalty limits. I'll put a question to the Secretary of State. This bill does not only refer to the influx from the Middle East, which is probably the reason for this proposal, but it will, of course, also have the force of law for all other possible cases. I am thinking of a lady being smuggled here from Moldova or something. Do I see that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u12	When I came back, I heard Mr Van Oosten say: we really have to do something, you see those horrible images of those people, those illegal flows of refugees. Can I ask Mr van Oosten when there is a legal flow of refugees? The UN Refugee Convention makes it very clear that someone who has to fear for various reasons has the right to seek asylum in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u13	I know that Mrs Gesthuizen has regular discussions on this issue in another context. In reply to this question, I simply say that I think it is incredibly important, and you will soon be discussing this again, that the deal with Turkey is being properly implemented and that we will not put those smugglers in a position to transport people on the sea with all the consequences. But if that happens and if there is a link to the Dutch jurisdiction, then I want to ensure that our legislation is equipped and has the best possible deterrent effect against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u14	That's not an answer to my question. I am happy to continue the debate with Mr Van Oosten, Mr Azmani or another colleague, probably again next week at the debate on the European summit. I would like to point out that I think it is wrong to criminalise the flow of refugees themselves. According to the UN Refugee Convention, people have the greatest right to apply for asylum in all those countries which have ratified that Convention as well as the 1967 Protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u15	What I resent is that there are smugglers who make money over the back of others. That is what Mrs Gesthuizen and I fully share. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke of it in the most excellent way: they do so by putting people in a position where children with cardboard life jackets are brought across the sea and possibly left alive there. I'm not gonna argue that this law is gonna stop all of this. I dare say that if our law is out of line with legislation elsewhere in Europe and our legislation and our penalty limits are set at a lower level, I think it is very sensible of this cabinet to correct that. In the meantime, I've moved on to my contribution. Of course, it cannot only be about increasing the penalty ceilings as such. As colleagues have already pointed out, this must of course go hand in hand with increasing the chances of getting caught and actually catching those smugglers. I would like to put a number of questions to the Secretary of State about this. Before I do that, I would like to put one more question to the effect that the penalty ceilings should be raised. A number of colleagues have talked about minimum penalties and how the judge deals with them. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if it is his expectation that the Public Prosecutor's Office will also be working on this professional and almost professional human trafficking. This measure of punishment in this proposal is an even higher measure of punishment than that laid down for the basic offence. When I see these examples on television, I can hardly escape the impression in my few simplicity that there are just professional forms of criminal cooperation at work here. I hope so, so does the Public Prosecutor. I have already indicated that the mere increase in penalty ceilings, to the VVD's understanding, is of course not instantaneous and not in itself the solution. You have to see that in a combined approach. The Secretary of State also writes that in the documents, and the Minister with him. It is a combination of a number of measures, ensuring that those smugglers are actually caught. To this end, a team of the KMar, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police has been set up. I think Mrs Gesthuizen was talking about that too. Have you had any experience with that team? What tasks and powers does that team have? Following Mrs Van Toorenburg, I also had the question of whether there are any obstacles to this team when it comes to our legislation in actually being able to act in research into human trafficking. I'd like to hear it, because then we'll know as Room if we can do something about it. How is the funding of that team arranged? Do you know any similar teams abroad? And very important: how is the information between the different countries guaranteed? I'd like answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u16	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Volp of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. The contribution of colleagues has already indicated in several ways that we are all shocked by the images we see every day: the cardboard life jackets, the boy who washed up, the girl in her beautiful dress that floats in an endless sea. They're terrifying and shocking. I think we used all the terms. Human trafficking is inhumane and unacceptable. The need creates its own market. That's what it comes down to. The current flow of refugees has increased these criminal practices. They're not new, but they've increased. Ruthlessly, money is made to deliberately endanger others. How profitable will it be to charge thousands of euros for crossing a crummy boat that is too full and too small and left at sea? The PvdA also supports this change in the Code of Criminal Law. The penalty limits for trafficking in human beings must be in line with the gravity of the offence. Smugglers deliberately endanger the lives of others, go for profit and gamble with other people's lives. This afternoon we would also have a discussion on trafficking in human beings, but that did not happen. The Netherlands, as EU President, has recently organised an interparliamentary conference on trafficking in human beings and migration. The Secretary of State was also present. The Minister identifies human trafficking and smuggling as two separate phenomena. Mrs Gesthuizen mentioned that as well. At that conference, too, it became clear how interwoven these two phenomena are. In her letter, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children points out that these two offences are closely linked in practice. It is precisely the dependence of smugglers that makes them vulnerable to trafficking in human beings. The PvdA would like to hear a response from the State Secretary to this observation by the national rapporteur. She mentions alertness as a focus. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Can he indicate what is being done specifically in addition to all efforts to combat trafficking in human beings in order to prevent a smuggled person from being traded? Do we indeed invest enough in training and effective cooperation? How does the Secretary of State look at the bulkheads the national rapporteur sees between these two crimes? Previously, colleagues mentioned the normative and dissuasive effect that this penalty increase should have. My party can go along with that, but says that this is only part of a holistic approach. In addition to the normative and dissuasive signal that can be based on higher penalties, the chance of getting caught must be increased. That too has already been appointed by a number of colleagues. There must therefore be a strong commitment to a more intensive and effective approach to trafficking in human beings. The Secretary of State calls it the multidisciplinary team, but the question is how this goes and how we're gonna bail it out. Can he tell us what this team is going to do in concrete terms? How does the joint team that focuses on these large-scale international investigations into human trafficking, which is often mentioned, progress? Has the liaison network of the police and the military police already been strengthened and operational? It is precisely through a chain-wide intensification that a strong signal is sent out that this abuse of people's needs is not tolerated. The explanatory memorandum states that trafficking in human beings is carried out by well-organised and calculating criminal networks and that the attractiveness of committing this crime lies in a combination of high yields, low chances of being caught and relatively low penalties. This is what we're doing about these comparatively low penalties. The Secretary of State also has a number of plans ahead of it. Is there anything we can do about the high yield? What's the status of so-called "pick-they-opportunities"? The business model is a terrible thing, but that is how it is made unattractive not only by a higher chance of getting caught and higher penalties, but also by skimming and balding. Two years ago, I was with the colleague of the Secretary of State in the department, at that time still in his capacity as MP, and a number of colleagues present here on behalf of the Permanent Chambers Committee on Security and Justice on a working visit in Romania. We were actually there to look at trafficking in human beings, but I was left with something of a rather simple principle that was used there. If a human dealer was dealt with, it was up to him to prove how he got his income and if he couldn't, he lost it and with him the environment: not clearly, then took it away. Perhaps it is an idea, and I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State in order to see how we can further facilitate the removal of the profits of human trafficking. Does he agree with my party that this could have a clear deterrent effect? My party still has a number of questions. In the note following the report, a number of colleagues have already recalled this. The Minister indicates that he does not have any research data. The question is whether there are any investigations at all and, if not, whether they should be carried out. If, at European level, we have significant differences in penalties and we use the increase in penalty ceilings to discourage them, will we not create waterbed effects? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. In the written submission, my party has asked whether it has been found that judges need higher penalty limits. This has been mentioned before. Because of the urgency and the seriousness and extent of the problem, there has been no formal consultation. Does the Secretary of State expect the maximum penalties to be imposed now? In the past period, the period 2011-2015, this has not happened at all. The written input also states that, at the time of entry into force of the law, attention will be paid to communication on increased penalties, specifically for the target group to be reached. That raised the question of what we are going to do: to create an information app about what chance you have and what penalty is included? I don't think so. I'd like a little more explanation. Finally, every demand is an appropriate supply. As long as people's needs are so great that they resort to shady figures who offer them a way out of their misery for a heavy fee, that offer will remain. A study on smuggling or migrants from the European Commission shows that the vast majority of refugees travel to Europe with the help of smugglers. This is expected to be further discussed next week. The agreement reached offers a perspective, but the expectation must not be that smugglers will simply give up their golden trade. They will look for new ways. To increase the chances of getting caught and punishing harder will only be pointless if the demand is not stopped. Let us hope that the agreement reached will provide an impetus to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u18	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. I am pleased to see that we broadly share the need to tackle human trafficking and that we all strive to do so more effectively. I also appreciate the initial support, the benevolent attitude of many to welcome this particular proposal. I understand that there are also some questions. The questions focus rather pragmatically on the precise, pre-proven effect, but I would also like to emphasise the standard-setting nature of this. There are also changes in practice which require an adjustment of the Code. That's what I personally think, too. We had scaled up opportunities in human trafficking, but for a long time it was a crime that you could say was even a service to someone. It was sometimes appointed as a victimless crime, where the State and the rule of law in particular harmed members, but with the changed practice also a changed standard. If you see what inhumane human trafficking practices are used today and how much the scale has increased, then a different standard fits. It is the fastest growing business branch in Europe, it is sometimes said, perhaps outside. If you make the comparison with drug smuggling and the penalties on it, if you look at the place where the crime should have human trafficking in our criminal justice system and at the range of actual acts covered by that crime definition, then I find it more serious, purely normative that the type of actual action is worsening. Also in view of the larger scale, I think it is appropriate to increase the penalty limits in any case. Others, similar to us, have already higher levels of punishment for a reason. There are other countries that have not yet done so, but I also see those countries tending to increase their sentence. We also have a European initiative. We expect a proposal from the Commission to bring the level of penalties for trafficking in human beings more into line. That will tend to make it heavier than being judged lighter. It's a stabbed offense, so you've got a basic crime scene that's gonna add up soon. I like that system. On the whole, I think it is justified that the penalty limits should be increased. I also understand the more critical comments, in the sense that it is nonsense to say: if you adopt this bill, everything will be fine; then those smugglers will not even dare. People aren't necessarily scared off. People are already criminal. What would really have a frightening effect that you would expect to bring about in practice is something that is not punishable suddenly criminalising. The greatest deterrent effect on behaviours that are already punishable and are subject to a custodial sentence is the fact that they are punishable. The measure of punishment, the extent to which you feel the risk of being caught, the extent to which it pays and the ease with which a crime can be committed are factors that influence or people start doing so. But also something less to steer, like the opportunity, does. That's what you see now: every demand creates its own supply. If there's a lot of demand for something, there'll be an organization that provides for it. I cannot promise that an increase in the penalty rate throughout this mix will be enough deterrent to compensate for the increase in, for example, demand, opportunity and opportunity. I therefore see this as a measure, a piece of the puzzle, which I support in my own right. In addition, I hope and expect it to work in conjunction with better cooperation........................................................................................................................................................... In this mix, this can contribute to combating trafficking in human beings more effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u20	The Secretary of State talks about the normative nature of this bill, because the practices become criminal and smuggling is also growing in size. However, I would like to ask him whether the growth of the smuggling industry and the fact that these practices are becoming criminal and more dangerous to people who are being smuggled is not mainly due to the dramatic increase in the number of refugees worldwide, also quite close to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u21	Unfortunately, it is a fact that because of wars and unsafe situations in countries like Syria, the need and demand........................................................................................................................................................ The market has grown, let's put it this way. That makes a big contribution. If there was no war in Syria, as a smuggler you could lower your price whatever you wanted, but then, of course, people wouldn't be dragging themselves out of their safe surroundings to Europe, even if they were getting money. The opportunity for these people, the expansion of the number of people involved, and the fact that it is no longer an occasional thing, but that it is a very twisted criminal business model, are of course related to the number of people who might want to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u22	Now that I have heard the Secretary of State say this, I would like to ask whether he has also taken into account in his reasoning the possibility that increasing the penalty rate can also very well lead to simply asking for higher prices. Once again, I am prepared to look very favourably at this bill, because I too believe that anyone who takes advantage of the misery of another person and wants to earn large sums of money from it should be punished. However, I do wonder whether the Secretary of State has also considered this point. Won't this just lead to higher prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'm just a lawyer. So I cannot do this detailed market impact predictions of opaque criminal markets. I can't rule it out either. However, I do not think that is the way either. I wouldn't want to say the opposite either, because then you get to the classic: if I get it out of the Criminal Code, it's not criminal anymore and crime is gone. I do not think that this should be the decisive reason for doing so, because you have to make sure in other ways that the entire smuggling is cut back, that that activity does not take place and that people do not start it, whatever the price is charged for it. Even if smugglers did it for free for a month, I still think you should stop it and stop it. So I can't rule it out, but I'm not really at home in that business model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u24	We all think this is an important subject. That is why we are also critical and willing to listen to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has just said that he will come back later on to the issue of better cooperation. Does he mean European or national cooperation? What exactly does he mean by that? I have another question. I didn't hear it right, because it happened pretty fast, but the Secretary of State was talking about an investigation. What's the investigation about? Is that the comparative study I asked for in my contribution or is it another study?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u25	Let me first answer the question about the competition. I don't have that investigation. Nor do I think that it makes sense to do so, because the European Commission is reviewing EU rules on trafficking in human beings. We expect the proposal for revision to be made in the second half of this calendar year. The European Commission is itself carrying out such an investigation. I find it difficult, because what do you ask in such an investigation? Mrs Koşer Kaya said that there might be a country with a lower sentence where more people have been convicted. Yeah, you can. With this we map all kinds of correlations, which I still can't attach to a causal link. It was also said: it is decreasing. If an investigation reveals that there have been 100 cases in one year and in the next 50, you can say that it is going in the wrong direction. However, it may also be that we have taken 100 out of 400 cases, or 50 out of 75. In short: you also don't know a lot of things. I certainly don't want to put it into perspective, but in an investigation you have to know in advance that you can do something with the results. In this case, however, I did not think it was decisive to wait before coming to the Chamber with the proposal. With regard to the other question, I will come back to national cooperation, European cooperation and cooperation outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u26	If the European Commission itself is in the process of revising and is probably going to look at how different countries are doing and what is effective, not only in terms of penalties but also in terms of measures around them, then I wonder why that is not the case. The way in which we act in Europe could be a little more levelled. After all, it does not end at our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u27	I think that European cooperation in these areas is good if it makes it more effective. However, I do not want it to be decisive for the standards that we ourselves choose for our rule of law and stick to such a crime. In addition, the Commission is not doing this research out of pure curiosity but also because it is tending towards harmonization upwards. Then why wait? Why, then, should I wait a year for the Commission to say: what you have found for a year but not proposed to the Chamber, do we now agree? If we know it's going that way and we're doing it now, we'll be there by the time that directive comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u28	I ask this because the Council of State also indicates that it would be good to carry out an investigation and a comparison with other countries. So it's wider than just looking at the penalty. The point is, you want an effective remedy. It's not an end in itself. From that point of view, I would ask why the Secretary of State is not taking that investigation with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u29	To be effective, it is good to learn from countries that have a certain approach and to work with it. However, the effectiveness will not be undermined by increasing the penalty level. Punishment increase is never an end in itself. I think that the normative element of our criminal law is a value in itself. It is about the standards that we as a society set and therefore also about the extent to which we want to link a maximum penalty to exceeding those standards. So it is not an end in itself, but it is a value in itself. It is not: increasing the penalty is always better. It is a question of adjusting the standards on the basis of changed practical circumstances. If there are more and more cases covered by the definition of crime that are more serious than before, I think that is a reason to do so. In addition, we continue to work with other countries to be more effective. However, that has to do with much more than just the penalty. Many spokesmen have asked questions about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mrs Van Toorenburg and later Mrs Volp asked about the figures of persecution and trial. I have a good overview of that. I noticed that Mrs Helder did not ask the question but replied to it by reading a wide range of numbers. Hearing her, I felt no reason to make any corrections to that, let alone to do it again. It is true that there are no masses of cases in which the maximum penalty has been imposed and the judge puts it somewhere in a footnote: if it could have been higher, I would have done so. However, I refer first of all to what I said earlier about the standard-setting nature of this. Secondly, I would like to point out the following. Quite recently, the larger business team has been set up. Now the first big case comes to light. I want us to be prepared in the future for a higher maximum sentence to be imposed on these heavier cases. Judges themselves have not yet asked for the penalty ceiling to be increased. I do not want us, as legislators, to discuss here only the standards we want and maximum punishment if the judges have asked for it. We should do the same if they didn't ask for it. It is then up to them to determine the punishment to be imposed in specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u32	But it's also a bit standard-setting when the Chamber states: Cabinet, don't go in some kind of general line from 2011 to 2016 informing the Chamber about what's happening, but if you want an increase, indicate that it's been reduced in recent years. Otherwise, you're gonna get a lame game. Then the general newspaper, which was very closely followed by Mrs Helder, goes on to do so, and then finds out that there has been a reduction in the number of convictions and lower penalties in recent times. Why doesn't the Cabinet just say so? Then we can continue with our standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u33	This is a question of why, but it's only now that I'm being questioned about this that I realize. I didn't call a session on the question: how should we present it? If it runs back, it runs back. That's why we started working with that team from last year. We felt it could be more effective. We wouldn't have done that if we thought that the way we're doing it now has been fantastic and progressing year after year. So I had no intention of not reporting anything. It's a priority because you want it to improve. So I also have a certain hope and expectation. The team actually started playing last year. The first cases are now getting loose. We now also have more liaison officers, for example in Turkey but also in Rome, where I happened to be yesterday and where I spoke to the liaison officer there. It should not just depend on whether you find someone who only plays a certain role in a control. You also want to perpetrate and penetrate the organization. You'd like to track down other than the drivers and pick them up. You're gonna need a lot more commitment to that on heavier cases. That has yet to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm glad the Secretary of State says it wasn't intentional, because the picture got a little weird. The media also said that it was strange that Minister Van der Steur presented this quite differently than it really was. But now I have a clear explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u35	Then I come to the questions about European cooperation. Europol launched the European Migrant Smuggling Centre (EMSC) on 22 February this year. The European smuggling centre is intended to combat smuggling. The main task is to help EU Member States dismantle criminal smuggling networks, which are not focused on one country. That's where you need each other. Furthermore, cooperation with Interpol plays a role in strengthening relations with non-EU countries, as they are often smuggled from these countries. Europol shall participate. The Netherlands also participates in Interpol's Specialized Operational Network against Migrant Smuggling (ISON). Europol and Eurojust are also represented in hotspots in Greece and Italy to support Member States in dismantling networks of smugglers and traffickers based on information collected immediately upon entry into Europe. In the meantime, there are also European NATO missions with the aim of tracking down smuggling networks by gathering more information on the Mediterranean and Aegean lines at the site. This information should also contribute to a better approach to these smuggling networks. Council conclusions were adopted at the JHA Council on 10 March, a few weeks ago. They emphasise the importance of the multidisciplinary approach to which all relevant parties are associated. So we no longer have to complain about the awareness and intentions. The blueprints and the links to shape this cooperation are now better than before. It is now a question of real detection and prosecution from information collection and exchange of information. That will depend on whether it is effective. Questions were also asked about jurisdiction. As the Dutch criminal law generally states, jurisdiction is broad but not unlimited. Roughly and practically, this includes everything in the Netherlands, the Dutch abroad and non-Dutch residents who do have a permanent residence in the Netherlands. We also have an interest in matters in which we can prove that the destination is the Netherlands. Even then you can assert your jurisdiction, although in such a case of course you always have to weigh where you have arrested those people and in cooperation with that other country you will assess where you can best bring about the prosecution. So jurisdiction is wide. We can use that to get out of our way. Questions have also been asked about the powers of checks on vehicles at border controls. I and my colleague, Mr Van der Steur, have given the House a promise that she will receive a letter on this matter. This is now being finalised, so I expect that letter to come to the Chamber next week or perhaps the week after that. Then the Chamber can take the whole picture and we can discuss in the debate during the relevant AA whether we are in order and everyone knows exactly in which cases which powers can be applied. Many questions have also been asked about the cost of strengthening enforcement. They are not the result of this amendment of the law, but I understand that Members are asking for it. I have already indicated that we will not be able to increase the penalty. We have intensified on this in recent times. That team's on the right track now. Of course, it can always be better. Unfortunately, sometimes it is as predictable as the MPs themselves say when they ask their questions. This is indeed part of the decision-making process for the Spring Note. If more money is made available for this, I can tell very widely in the Chamber that this will not be amended. That signal is clear to us. We are not in the final decision-making stage yet, because I too have all kinds of wishes and find everything. Contrary to what his political colour might suggest, Minister Dijsselbloem is certainly not a sinterklaas and therefore I cannot anticipate what will come out of the spring decision-making process. We all know that if you want to achieve even more effect, enlargement can also fit. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked a question about community service. The question was not whether the judge should be allowed to do so, because Mrs Van Toorenburg also knows that the judge herself is responsible for that. She asked me if I could imagine a case where community service would be appropriate. Let me turn it around and look at the description of the crime. It is very broad, and I cannot rule out the fact that there are minor facts that are covered by it, whereby, at the first time, when there is a somewhat clumsy mix of motives for giving aid and yet asking for money for it, a judge comes to community service. Someone may think based on humanitarian motives that he can help people from a to b to a station not too far across the border of the Netherlands because he knows people via a network. Actually, he thinks he's mostly helping people. Anyway, it's gonna take him time, so he's gonna ask for a couple of tens for it anyway. Yeah, well, then it's a crime, and then you can imagine that's part of it. It is not the majority of cases, and I can also imagine that, above all, community service is not imposed, but it is conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u36	We have exempted a number of laws from community service, because we consider the offences to be so serious that community service is not appropriate. We have changed that in the law for serious crimes of violence, recidivism and brutality. There has been a lot to do in the Chamber. So the question is why we don't rule out community service for this type of crime. I understand the Secretary of State's argument, but still...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u37	As I have just indicated, I cannot rule out in this case that there are in practice cases covered by the definition of crime where community service is not very shocking. Moreover, I do not have any signs that community service is very often imposed or that there is a pattern of community service punishment in the view of the legislator for crimes that are too heavy for this. Since there is a stalemate in this crime that allows a great deal of space to quickly reduce to higher penalty limits, which gives the judge a signal of what the legislator wants, I do not think it is necessary to add it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Van Oosten is helping me a little bit. He was right to say to me: why not ask for an evaluation? Can the Secretary of State promise the Chamber that he will review specifically over a certain period of time whether it meets his purpose? Are there community service that we think you really shouldn't want? Then perhaps we can take Mrs Koşer Kaya's point right away that you can use that time to compare internationally. We have not included an evaluation clause in the law, but can the Secretary of State still undertake an evaluation in a number of years so that we can review the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u39	I think that's a good idea. On another point, too, I had noted that there was a need to see exactly how it would work out in practice, what effects this penalty would have. It can be considered whether this leads to higher demands, whether it leads to heavier cases or higher penalties. Questions have all been asked about this, on which I do not have the answers now. The registration of the imposition of penalties is something to monitor and evaluate together with the D.A. and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u40	Can the Secretary of State make that a little more concrete? There will be another debate on trafficking in human beings. Mrs Helder has also paid attention to this. Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us how to put that evaluation tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yeah, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u42	Does the Secretary of State also take part in the European movement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u43	At least I'll tell you in the letter if we're taking that. I would like to take a look at the work that is already happening in Brussels. If it's a solid part of that, we don't have to do it ourselves again. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked if the Royal Marechaussee uses technical aids. It has technical tools at its disposal for trucks, CO equipment and the unsophisticated dogs, which can detect people impressively quickly. We have also extended the legal framework in the framework of Mobile Surveillance Security. This is being carried out less restrictively than before, of which Mrs Van Toorenburg gave visual examples. This has also led to an increase in the number of arrests. We still need to see who we're convicted of, because it's nice to arrest someone on the spot, but the burden of proof is another matter. If you roll up a network, you'll already have the evidence before the arrest, and then you'll also have a better chance of leading to a solid case and a conviction. We will see in the coming months how often it is possible to get the people who have been detained in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u44	I would like to know whether the police can actually arrest a blinded car if it is passing by, given all the misery we are facing at least at the moment. Can the police just walk through a train and check things out? And do people just have to show their passports, even within Schengen, if the police think it's not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u45	That's still bound by rules. A number of questions that Mrs Van Toorenburg is now asking are part of the letter that I have just announced and which will soon be sent to the Chamber. I think it would be more useful to have that on paper first and then to enter into the conversation if the Chamber thinks it is sufficient for Dutch practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u46	We're getting more patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u47	Questions have been asked about the scope of the crime. A link was made to selling bad life jackets. The description of the crime is wide. This includes, for example, providing information or tools, as well as, of course, facilitating the whole journey or providing access to or transit through the Netherlands or another EU Member State. This is therefore a broad definition, in which these aspects can be taken into account in the burden of proof, in particular in the case of package sales. It would be an interesting case if someone specializes exclusively in the sale of life jackets, from which we all know that he does so at the place where people are going to use them. Could you prosecute him for that alone? If you can make it perfectly clear that it was a means of accessing Europe, you should certainly try to do so in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u48	This should indeed fall within the scope of the extended scope of criminal law as a preparatory act. If you send people on the road with inadequate life jackets, then the provider of those inadequate life jackets under that provision is, in principle, persecutable, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u49	Not so much under the preparatory actions. I think it would be worth an attempt to include this in the description of the crime itself, i.e. separately from preparatory actions, because it is about providing the means to gain unauthorised access to another Member State. Mr Van der Staaij said that the preparatory actions do not include the basic crime: they are at six and can only do so from eight, why not? I think that most cases where preparatory actions are actually provable and traceable will almost always fall under one of the higher standards. For example, when it comes to a driver doing preparatory operations or making contacts to carry some extra cargo, to formulate it plastically, this happens in the exercise of a profession and it will immediately fall under eight years, because this is covered by the first increase. If it's an organized connection, it's already a criminal offence to prepare. The cases in which there is no organised link and where it is not on appeal or as an appeal are just excluded. That category is lighter and there are more difficult preparations to find. So you're on your own, not organized and not as part of your profession. Then it will be a difficult matter to demonstrate the preparatory actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u50	You can imagine that the deliberate use of really bad material can be a penalty-aggravating factor. But that also means that we are concerned that we will not catch the people who cooperate with it by means of preparatory actions. They may not be covered at all. We would like to do something about this in the standard-setting aspect as well. Can the Secretary of State indicate if there are any other options for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u51	I guess they're part of a network. Then it becomes easier to tackle such an organisation and anyone who plays a role in an organised context by providing information and resources. A single person doing a particle is, of course, the most modern economic wave, but we do not see it there yet. You want to be able to prove that they're part of a whole organization. That therefore underlines the importance of being able to carry on and not just the people who are visible and who are behind the wheel. There is also a need for a broader international review. That is why we also have people in Rome, who have a lot of experience with the Libya route, and in Turkey. If you pick someone up behind the wheel, it's nice if you can quickly find out which network he belongs to and if you already have a file on it. Well, then you'll be able to get back on your feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u52	The Secretary of State indicated that in the case of preparatory acts, it will also be more serious than the basic offence. I can follow him in that. But it's still an expectation. Is he prepared to take this issue explicitly into account in the promised evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u53	In fact, I think it would be a good idea to look at how often the conviction, to put it bluntly, is stuck with the second paragraph of the article. You can imagine that happens often, for example because of probative evidence. If proven facts, to our liking, are too often covered by this basic variant, then this would give rise to a discussion here on whether this is desirable, given the practice. Questions have been asked about cooperation outside the European Union, with Turkey, for example. I told you before, we've got a liaison officer in there, too. I should also like to mention that Turkey has done virtually a lot in recent months to combat smugglers. It can be said that this did not immediately lead to the end of smuggling. That's right. Rather, it indicates how persistent and big the problem is. For example, illegal boat factories have also been wound up, which were entirely in the service of the smuggling industry. People there simply produced boats for no other purpose than the crossing through smuggling. False documents were also found that would be used during the crossing. The aforementioned life jackets that do not work, of course, are completely a cynical variant of safety selling that in no way helps. We are working together to roll up this industry and to be more active on it. So that cooperation is definitely there. Then I come to the chain-wide intensification in the Netherlands. I have already said a few things about this, including the multidisciplinary team. That started last year. It was set at the end of 2014. Hence, you can now expect the effects, after the start-up and the issues that have been addressed there. Mrs. Volp asked about the pick-she-element. It's an element that's taken into account. The assets and assets from which it cannot be properly explained how they were acquired may also be included. That is certainly an element that weighs with this. I don't know if it's even more terrifying than deprivation of liberty, but I just think we should both do it. We should not have to make any choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u54	It is not even more terrifying, but we simply know that the attractiveness is greater if this kind of horrific crime pays, if it is easy to achieve financial profit. We have just spoken about monitoring. Can the Secretary of State keep track of this element? What profits are being skimmed? I can imagine that this information can contribute. If you have to pay properly, if you have to turn in everything that you can't explain properly, it can contribute to effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u55	In any case, I will indicate in the monitoring letter whether this is reasonably possible, whether such information is easily extracted from the system. In all cases of human trafficking, a financial investigation is launched. I'll just see if this is a little decent, without people spontaneously getting a heart attack from the extra work that this brings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u56	I would not want to give anyone a heart attack at all and certainly not here, because then I have to get to work, but it is because you see that there are differences in the approach of the European countries. We have mentioned and seen the example of Romania. If you want to roll up international, European networks, it is important to continue investigating, including on financial profits. That is where it is important to do so. It will, I think, have an effect on the attractiveness. That information can give us an insight into the effectiveness. I want us to skim as much money as possible in order to be able to use that money for other purposes, such as preventing this kind of trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u57	I fully support this, and therefore I am pleased that we also know in the Dutch legal system the possibility of depriving funds of illegal capital increase unless it can be demonstrated that the money has a legal origin. I do not know the details of the Romanian example, but we do have something very close to it at least. I also fully agree with Mrs Volp that the motive in the case of this type of crime is often financial gain, because it is not some sort of out of control charity. If money is a motive, you have to hit people hard in it, if only to show as a rule of law that this kind of crime doesn't pay. In addition, it has a discouraging and punitive effect on people who have done this kind of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u58	I propose that the Secretary of State should continue his speech and that we give him the opportunity to answer the remaining questions of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The advantage of answering all these interruptions is that the pile of answers gets a little lower for me. I'd almost say, Mrs. Helder, you did it again. She herself gave the answer to her question about minimum penalties. That answer was so scary that I think that the cabinet has repeated this more than once in recent years. In repetition, of course, always presupposes more than once. What she said is true, because we do not intend to introduce minimum penalties in this case either. We think the increase is a good thing, but... I can leave it at that, because the comprehensive answer has already been given. Mrs Helder said: nice those partly conditional sentences, but are there also totally conditional sentences imposed? That is not the case. It was always a combination of partially conditional and partly unconditional. Mrs Helder also asked about monitoring the bill, but I will go into this in more detail in the letter. However, it is certainly necessary for ourselves, together with the prosecution and the police, to review the effectiveness of the investigation and prosecution. We also want to know how the use of the increased penalty ceilings is working in practice. Mrs Helder also asked how many suspects had a dual nationality. The D.A.'s office only lists the countries of the suspects' births. So I do not have the dates necessary to answer Mrs Helder's question. Mrs Gesthuizen asked why now and spoke about the suspicion of hypocrisy. That is, of course, a personal challenge to me. Why now? The answer to this is that we are still seeing a significant increase in the problem, including the extent to which we are confronted with it. We also see a big change, a change that of course has not taken place within a week. The type of act of fact covered by the crime shows an increase in what is covered in practice. In other words, more serious things are happening under this description than before and also on a larger scale. I do not have the illusion that this bill alone leads to a reduction in the flow of migration or the influx. So I am now trying to counter the suspicion of hypocrisy by indicating that it would be pointless hypocrisy. I don't have the idea: oh, now it's touching us, because we're dealing with a higher influx. No, unfortunately, they are linked phenomena in practice. If migration patterns were the same without any form of human trafficking, we would also have taken measures. Last year, of course, we saw a lot of terrible images, not only of people who tried to cross by boat, but also of people in trucks that were unfortunately found in Austria too late and in the Netherlands just in time. We are more often confronted with it in our legal system, not because we see it has gotten worse but because our approach is more effective. We see what is happening in practice and compare it with other types of crime of the same seriousness, and that is why I just thought it appropriate to send this proposal to the Chamber. I don't know if I've been able to eliminate the suspicion of hypocrisy with this, but I'll find out later. At least I'm lucky it's not a criminal offence. If it didn't work out, I'll take a better shot. Mrs Gesthuizen said that you can also solve human trafficking by providing everyone with a legal route, which she asked just now in the event of interruption. That is indeed modelly correct. If you allow anyone who wants to come to the Netherlands in advance to come to the Netherlands in a regular manner, that is indeed a more effective way to dismantle the business model. Unfortunately, this would have side effects that we consider irresponsible for the Netherlands, because we do not think everyone has the right to come here. Nor do we believe that everyone has the right to be protected here, regardless of the possibility of doing so. With regard to the migration approach as a whole of the cabinet, of which Mrs Gesthuizen knows everything, although she will not support the cabinet in everything it stands for, we believe that we should partly fulfil our humanitarian duty by taking people here, partly by contributing to reception elsewhere and by addressing other countries' responsibilities in this regard. Mrs Gesthuizen also asked about the effects of increasing penalties for other Member States. Is there a waterbed effect? My estimate is that these effects are small, because many other Member States already have similar penalty limits and I feel that the most decisive factor in the country to which they are smuggled is not necessarily the penalty. Determining is also where the customer wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u60	That was a question from Mrs Volp. By the way, I didn't say the other thing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u61	Okay, that's what Mrs. Volp asked. You will be awarded a great deal, Mrs. Gesthuizen. Your fame is great. I come to a question from Mr Van der Staaij; I hope that is true. He asked whether the tightening of border controls had had any effect. Is that gonna come out enough? I can never say the odds of getting caught have gone up. I can say that we've caught more people, but you don't know the number of people who did it and you didn't catch them. So that's tricky. Well, you can speak of an increase in the perceived chance of getting caught. We also have strong signals that information provision and information sharing in this business is fast and large. During a working visit I heard from a valued employee of the Royal Marechaussee the following: when I drove here this morning, I heard on Radio 1 the announcement that they would be here live at a check-up; so we will get a quiet morning. I think that this kind of signal, the warning that there is a check, is indeed spreading rapidly. That's why you shouldn't keep doing the checks in the same place. The duration must therefore also be realistic, because if you are out there for a long time, people will know by now. You need to be able to surprise in the places where you are at the time in order to disrupt it as much as possible and pick up as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u62	That would lead me to ask this question, which I also asked in the first term: can you see how it would be if you were to man all the old-fashioned border posts again? Then there's always quiet mornings, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u63	If we really re-introduce the old border controls, as we had them, then smuggling through these border posts will be considerably reduced. Of course, you're creating new markets for smuggling in other ways. So it's gonna be more creative. But I do think you'll catch more people. Unfortunately, I fear that there is no way in which you have the benefits of permanent border controls and not the disadvantages. It is therefore a matter of weighing up, partly because of the economic importance for the Netherlands, whether you place your strongest border control at your own internal borders or whether you strengthen control at the external borders and share internal borders, so that you benefit greatly from it. That consideration must be made, and Mrs Helder makes a different choice to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Helder also asked about the unwelcome explanation of perpetrators of human trafficking. It's possible. It depends on the severity of the individual crime. In human trafficking, it is possible to declare the unsub undesirable. Mr Van Oosten has asked questions about feasibility and enforcement. He asked how the Common Human Smuggling Team is now running and what it's allowed to do. As I said, the first major investigation has been picked up by this team. I do not have a list with which I can offer Mr Van Oosten a comparative examination. Nor can I go into very much detail on this particular issue, which is operational. It's not closed yet. The team is led by a prosecutor and therefore has all the powers that go with it and that are needed for such an investigation team. I assume that the increased commitment to detection will not remain in this one case, but that larger cases will also be brought before the courts and that we will see appropriate criminal requirements. I assume that it will not only succeed in following a part of someone who has been caught in the act, but that it will also be possible to detect, so that a larger investigation can be presented. I mentioned Italy earlier, but also the United Kingdom has set up a similar team. The more countries have a strong team and the more information we can exchange, the better we can strengthen each other and divide the work. The existing liaison network of military and police forces will be strengthened until 2018 by a capacity expansion with flexible liaisons. At least our people are present in a lot more countries, also operational and also, for example, in the hotspots. This way we have good information and can improve our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u64	You know what I think, Mr. Chairman? I think that if the Secretary of State wants to maximise the deterrent effect he is trying to achieve through this legislative proposal, we should also organise that the Public Prosecutor should act against these types of smugglers and therefore also proceed to such criminal proceedings in appeals or in custom etc. It's important to keep you from getting into the base crime. What can the Secretary of State mean to ensure that the public prosecutor will look at them with those glasses, insofar as there is any need for encouragement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think it was not the will, as Mr Van Oosten said, but the ability to have information and to obtain information from other countries. This team is taking a big step in that direction. With this you can make your business firm and bigger, by putting more than one individual before it and getting bigger in such an organization. For example, you have a better position in the burden of proof in order to be able to go for the highest possible level of criminality. Then you don't have to do enough, because you have too little information or lack of information, with a basic crime while you feel on your clogs that something else is part of it, but you haven't been able to get proof of it because you have too little capacity or too little information or because you didn't have access to the information that search services in other countries had on the same network.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u66	I just heard the Secretary of State answer a question I think Mr Van der Staaij is saying that if you are a driver smuggling someone into the country, you are actually calling it in. So you're already in the eight-year crime scene and you're also taking those preparatory actions with you. I want to ensure that, along the way of these acts, too, the signal is sent that this Parliament wants the greatest possible commitment to prevent those smugglers from continuing and to ensure that these smugglers are dealt with, precisely because of their dissuasive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u67	That is indeed the point that is now before us. This bill brings the category mentioned by Mr Van Oosten from six years to eight years, allowing you to pursue those preparatory actions. That is one of the elements that this bill will contribute to the practice and opportunities we have to prosecute and get convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u68	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I read in the explanatory statement of everything that suggests that the cabinet hopes and believes that this bill can manage migratory flows and effectively combat the smuggling industry. How am I supposed to reconcile that with the Secretary of State's remark that he does not have the illusion that this bill will allow us to deal with the smuggling industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u69	We do not solve the problem entirely, but without it it will be even more difficult to solve it. It's just part of a broad approach. I am a lover of the law, but changing the letters in the code unfortunately does not always distort reality. This requires a lot of extra work. This is a contribution to that. We want to facilitate this additional work better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u70	I just heard the Secretary of State say something else in his response to a question from someone else, or perhaps simply in his general answer. I must be able to assume that the cabinet believes that this bill, if it is adopted and entered into force, will have a real impact on the human smuggling industry. In other words, it should contribute to a reduction in the smuggling industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u71	It contributes to the opportunities we have to deal with them. Maybe I'm too faint at this late hour, but the fact that we're increasing the penalty in some area doesn't mean that business decides to stop. This makes it easier for us to make a heavy blow to them, and this in turn leads to a reduction in the smuggling industry compared to the situation in which we did not have this higher level of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u72	I suggest that the Secretary of State should answer the remaining questions. I would point out to the Members of Parliament that they also have the possibility of holding a second term, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u73	Ms Volp asked about the recommendations of the National Rapporteur on trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I share with her that we should not pretend to be totally separate worlds. Similarly, other forms of smuggling may also be intertwined with human trafficking and the proceeds of these gangs may happen which will also put us further at a disadvantage. So we are certainly alert to the fact that different forms can overlap and that an organisation can be active in both branches. The main difference is that not all victims of human trafficking will report, even though the victim is being exploited. The crucial difference is that in human trafficking there is a degree of cooperation of the smuggled person in the activity. However, patterns are often the same: people are being brought from one country to another, their fragile situation is being abused and people are being put at risk in situations that we cannot justify or allow. Both themes have interfaces in the areas of alerting, prevention, detection and prosecution. The awareness of this intertwinedness is indeed very important, I say with Mrs Volp and the national rapporteur. The fight against one form goes hand in hand with the fight against the other. The training of new employees in the recognition of signals also involves two different sides of the same coin. The Department of Aliens Police, Identification and Trafficking (AIVM) also focuses on both themes. The Human Trafficking and Trafficking Expertise Centre also focuses on both cases. In these areas, therefore, there is no shot between dealing with trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. If we do not abandon both of these matters, it is a risk, especially at this time, but if we merge them all together, then we are at risk of paying attention to trafficking in human beings again because of the massiveness of human trafficking. There are also differences in the people involved. We do not now see large-scale trafficking in human beings in the flow of refugees. There are not many divisions in the approach, but neither should we go along with them. There are indeed crucial differences. Dealing with trafficking in human beings must not be affected by the fact that we are now faced with so much trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u74	How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u75	I know I haven't answered one question yet, but I can't find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u76	Maybe in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u77	If there is, I will. It would be a pity if we needed a very second time for that one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u78	Has anyone forgotten a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u79	I can remember a question from myself about the provision of information. I've asked if we're going to build information for smugglers. Please explain a little more about the way in which this legislative amendment is brought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u80	That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would like to know when the competition at European level has been completed. I would also like to know when the monitor letter will be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u82	I expect the investigation to be part of the Commission's proposal expected in the second half of this calendar year. I do not know whether Mrs Van Toorenburg knows another opportunity to discuss this. Then it would make sense to send the letter before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u83	I am told that there will be a general consultation on trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mrs Volp, you may explain your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u86	I can imagine that at the time the law comes into force we will be able to clarify the way in which it is brought out. Moreover, it is not the most urgent question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u87	I will. I have here that we pay particular attention to the target groups, but that is of a general nature that is not sufficient to answer the question properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u88	I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. Mrs. Gesthuizen is the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. I find this statement memorable: "if smugglers do it for free for a month, you still have to fight it." That's what the Secretary of State said. That is remarkable, because that strengthens me in my belief that this law is directed against refugees at least as much as against the smuggling industry. I don't think that's the idea. In fact, I think that's a bad thing. I don't want to invite everyone to come to the Netherlands legally. That sounds like a lot of work to me. If the 60 million refugees that are around the world would all be in our country, no one would be happy about that. I didn't want to say that and I certainly didn't want to insinuate. I think it is regrettable that we are talking about a law which, in my view, poses some risks, without talking about the alternatives that we should be proposing to the people who are now victims of the smuggling industry. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that smugglers of human beings should be arrested and punished;]] [[Considers that simply increasing the penalty rate for trafficking in human beings will not lead to a lower demand for the services of smugglers and also carries the risk that smugglers will increase their prices, and that they will look for ways to smuggle where they themselves are less at risk of being caught and may be more at risk for refugees;]] [[calls on the government, on the one hand, to work hard to increase the chances of trafficking in human beings and, on the other hand, with much more speed than is currently the case, to work to provide legal opportunities for refugees to reach our country safely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Houses. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34345-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u90	I don't have a motion yet. I do have a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u91	That's what I was afraid of. The motion has been distributed. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. Let me just clarify my point which was raised by Mrs Gesthuizen. People who cross from Libya to Italy, for example, are pushed onto a boat with not even enough fuel to make it across. If people deal with others like that, even if they didn't make any money from it, I still want to stop it. It is a fact that they deserve it, but that is what I meant by: if they do it for free and put people at risk for life on boats that are not seaworthy, with insufficient fuel or food to survive the journey, you have to want to fight it anyway. Mrs Gesthuizen's motion mainly concerns the provision of legal opportunities for refugees. Mrs. Gesthuizen knows what the cabinet wants. We are in favour of the read mission of people who have made the wrong crossing and of the resettlement of a limited proportion of refugees legally coming from countries such as Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. Part of the plan with Turkey is that if the illegally facilitated crossing........................................................................................................................................................... You'll have more work on legal roads, but it's within that framework. Knowing Mrs Gesthuizen, she does not submit any motions which look at the existing framework, but which go further and would like to see more of these methods. I do not recommend this motion, because we believe that the package we are proposing leads to a good overall picture and that there is no need for enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-23-tweedekamer-9.u93	We will vote next Tuesday on the amendment of the law and on Mrs Gesthuizen's motion. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the officials and the people who may follow this debate through other possibilities.
