ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	Today we are doing the first term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed human rights policy in the committee. Then the question was asked: is human rights better? The answer to that question was negative. Today we are discussing the Foreign Affairs budget and we must ask ourselves: has the world become safer and more stable in recent years? Unfortunately the answer to that question must also be negative, the SP Group believes. The world hasn't been safer on it in recent years. We are living in hectic times, characterised by increasing war violence in the ring around Europe and growing insecurity and instability in Syria and Iraq. These countries are at risk of collapse after years of violence, while the international community does not know how to cope with the large flow of refugees resulting from it. Increased threats of terrorist violence can no longer be avoided, not from Europe, but also from the Netherlands. For most people, therefore, it is not a question of whether there will ever be a terrorist attack in the Netherlands, but at most when. What relationship does the Foreign Minister have between Dutch action in the Middle East and the increased threat of terrorism in the Netherlands? Although Islamic State is slowly but surely being reduced in both Iraq and Syria, few believe in an early end to the brutality in this region. There are all kinds of reasons for that. First of all, recapturing the so-called capitals of ISIS, Mosul in Iraq and Raqqa in Syria, will not be the end of the battle that IS is fighting. It is expected that violence will rather change character, even more focused on guerrilla tactics and attacks. Violence is likely to spread in the region and further. There is also a good chance that the demise of the Caliphate proclaimed by IS will lead to the return of jihadist fighters to the European Union, including the Netherlands, with all security risks. I ask the Minister whether he has a good idea of what is to come and whether sufficient measures have been taken to deal with these returners in a good way. It is sad, but also worrying, that after 15 years of war against terrorism, it has to be said that the threat of terrorist violence has only increased. How does the Minister explain that? How does he look back on the efforts of the Netherlands in this area? In Iraq there are many omens that point out that after the fight against Islamic State, the common enemy, another battle will erupt. The tensions between the Kurds and Baghdad, for example, can be cut. The Kurdish leader Barzani has already indicated that he will not give up any territory conquered on IS, whereas Baghdad, the central government, is demanding it. This is, of course, linked to the ongoing dispute over the distribution of oil revenues and the payment of salaries of Kurdish officials. If Iraq wants a future, it is very important that a solution is found quickly. Can the Minister respond to this? Does he see these dangers? How can more pressure be exerted on parties to achieve reconciliation in Iraq itself? Another major problem in Iraq remains the position of the Sunni community, in which ISIS can count on the necessary sympathy. The Al-Abadi government in Baghdad has not even begun serious economic, social and political rapprochement with this oppressed minority in recent years. In fact, as Mosul's recapture continues, one message appears after another about Sunni citizens being killed or tortured. It is my conviction that, as long as repression continues against this group, there will be a breeding ground for IS. Does the Minister share this analysis and how can more pressure be exerted on Baghdad so that this soil is removed? In Syria, the fall of Raqqa, when it comes to this, will not mean an end to the devastating civil war. In addition to the Islamic State, Al-Qaeda and other jihadist groups are also active, for example in Aleppo. In northern Syria, the Kurds fight mainly against Islamic State, but also against militias and neighbouring Turkey. The desire to achieve autonomy for this group in Syria is justified. The question is how the international community will support this. Hope will only arise for Syria if steps can be taken in the UN process to achieve a cease-fire and to negotiate a lasting peace. I call on the Minister not to miss a chance to take steps forward in this precarious process. Pending positive developments in the diplomatic field, it is of the utmost importance that adequate humanitarian aid is provided to Syria, but also to neighbouring countries, which receive millions of refugees. I call on the Minister, as in previous years, to make a firm contribution to this. Can the Minister promise that the Netherlands will continue to deliver its so-called fair share to humanitarian aid? I'd like to get a reaction to that. On the issue of refugees, the SP supports the emphasis on reception in its own region, but we must also note that this reception is under enormous pressure. That is why it is obvious to invite more refugees, the distressing cases, to resettlement in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to consider that? Can the Minister also explain why, despite EU agreements, the Netherlands does not take over any more refugees from Greece and Italy? Before I move to Turkey, I have another question about the use of depleted uranium weapons. The Americans would have deployed them in Syria. Can the Minister confirm that? Does the Minister with the SP condemn this effort because of its potential damage? NATO ally Turkey is increasingly interfering with the conflicts in Syria and Iraq under the guise of fighting IS. Turkey is a military presence in both countries. There seems to be no basis for that in international law. Can the Minister answer that question? Why is this Turkish presence not condemned? Is this not clearly an example of what the Minister called "neo-ottomanism" during a speech in Leiden? It is clear to all those who want to see Turkey's primary objective in Syria: to frustrate the Kurdish community's struggle for greater autonomy. It is even so bad that Turkey has carried out repeated attacks on Kurdish fighters, with many deaths. This while those same Kurdish fighters are the West's main ally in the fight against IS. Surely such an attitude on the part of Turkey cannot be accepted? Meanwhile, in Turkey, especially after the failed coup, the democratic rule of law is rapidly being undermined. It is bizarre that the suspension of EU negotiations with Turkey would go too far for this cabinet. I ask the Minister to reconsider this position, especially now that thousands of people have been laid off again this week and fellow MEPs are facing life imprisonment because of their views. The government's commitment to Israel and Palestine has been rather disappointing in recent years. While Israel is doing everything in its power to overthrow a viable Palestinian state, the European Union and the Netherlands are failing. There are convictions when Israel expands the illegal settlements again, but these words never follow serious actions. In fact, this cabinet has further deepened relations with Israel by establishing a form of cooperation. That's a really bad signal. The SP has always argued for conditions to be attached to close cooperation with Israel. Israel cannot be rewarded as the illegal settlements continue to expand and the people of Gaza remain collectively punished by an illegal blockade. When is the size of the cabinet gonna be full? How many more devastating wars need to be waged against the people of Gaza? How many Palestinian houses must be destroyed before the cabinet takes a different attitude towards Israel? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Peace negotiations have been shut down for years. That is why France launched an interesting initiative to try to break this deadlock and get the parties back to the table. But Israel indicated earlier this month that it would not take part in the French initiative. That is a serious matter. Can the Minister say how he is going to implement the motion that calls on the government to take concrete measures, such as the suspension of bilateral or European cooperation agreements, if the parties refrain from constructive participation in peace talks and continue to pursue undermining policies? I'd like a response. When is the time for the cabinet to recognise the Palestinian State? Do not wait until the facts on the ground that have made Palestinian state impossible, so I call on the Minister. I have two more questions about the occupied Golan Heights in Syria. I understand from contacts with an NGO on the ground that Israel, too, is going to expand the illegal settlements and that houses of Syrians are going to be demolished. Has there been a strong condemnation from the EU of this? Can the Minister comment on the Israeli plans for oil drilling in this area? That too is contrary to international law, isn't it? My next point concerns the high tensions with Russia. Last week, the Secretary-General of the OSCE stated that the Cold War appears to have returned. It was added immediately that in reality the situation in Europe is now more dangerous than before the fall of the Wall, an analysis that is made more often. According to the Secretary-General, we would be trapped in the logic of escalation and confrontation. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to this. Against this backdrop, the statements of incoming President Trump of America are interesting. It has repeatedly stated that it is open to a different attitude towards Russia, an attitude aimed at cooperation and normalization of relations. Can the Minister respond to this? How does he judge Trump's statements about Russia? Does he agree with the SP that all chances of de-escalation should be seized with both hands? How does the Minister view the role of the West in the emergence of a Cold War 2.0? Does the West have anything to blame for this? Does the Minister agree with me that withdrawing the promise that Georgia and Ukraine could one day become members of NATO could contribute to the desired de-escalation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Let me begin by expressing my pleasure at having one more budget debate with Mr Van Bommel. His last one, I understand, so we're gonna make something nice out of that. But this point is more frequent: the tensions with Russia and the desire of everyone, including Mr Van Bommel, to reduce these tensions. However, I find it annoying that there is always the haze that Van Bommel is proposing to bring down the sanctions as well. That is, of course, also the suggestion that Trump has made as a candidate. Is it true that Van Bommel is still holding on to the sanctions as they currently apply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Let me begin by thanking Mr Servaes for his kind words. I wish him a great deal of budgetary treatment here. I understand that, given the polls, that's uncertain, but I'm still making that wish. I wish him further that his place on the list will be one that guarantees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	So much for kindness, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Servaes is a very esteemed colleague, also because of his interruptions, who always give me the opportunity to clarify the SP position. Indeed, we are very concerned about sanctions policy. This does not focus on the existing sanctions, which should remain intact as far as the SP is concerned. However, I do not want to have a debate on further sanctions due to the conflict in Ukraine or the absence of any steps on Crimea today. In the existing sanctions for policy to date, especially with regard to the illegal annexation of Crimea, Mr Servaes strikes me as an ally, but I would not like to take further sanctions now. This is a form of escalation which is currently considered dangerous by our group in this conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am going to zoom in on this, because now Mr Van Bommel is making a distinction between the sanctions against Crimea and the sanctions they apply to Eastern Ukraine. Does he give the same guarantee: even if the situation does not change, they will remain in place? What else, when he talks about sticking to sanctions, is exactly the type of policy of future President Trump that appeals to him like that? I don't understand what he wants to do differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	Let me start with the latter. I think it's always better to talk and negotiate than to rule out and stand your back. I see that attitude in Europe and in some of the institutions of Europe. I refer to the discussion that we ourselves held in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on this subject. So I'm not okay with that. Trump says, "I want to talk, I want to see where we can find each other, we need each other more than we're each other's enemies." I think that is a good attitude, including, for example, the role of Russia in Syria. I think we'll be able to agree on that soon. The sanctions are as follows. A process is under way whereby both parties, both the rebels in Russia and Ukraine, are not complying with the commitments made in the Minsk process. As long as that is not the case, I believe that these sanctions should remain intact. At the moment that steps are taken, I see room to come to enlightenment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would like to make a few more points. Mr Van Bommel says that he sees room for manoeuvre when steps are taken, but the attitude of this cabinet and, moreover, of my party is: only if the Minsk agreement is fully respected can we talk about reducing these sanctions. Does Mr Van Bommel still support that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	That is not the point of departure of the SP. We do not say: all at once and then the sanctions are gone. No, we are now so advanced in this conflict in terms of time and in terms of actions, there are still skirmishes and there are still deaths that we must discuss every step that is taken there and which is substantial, including in relation to sanctions. I am not saying that there should be sanctions at every step, but we should have that discussion with each other. Good behavior must be rewarded, bad behavior must be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	I find that very remarkable. I do not know how Mr Van Bommel sees it, but if I look at Russia's behaviour in Crimea, but also in Eastern Ukraine, I can actually see that no step is being taken towards the implementation of the Minsk agreement. Nothing at all. Then I wonder a little on the basis of which Mr Van Bommel now wants to let go of that hard line, not to be so sharp on the sanctions and say: if Russia does just a little bit, I am already satisfied and then we are just going to wipe those sanctions off the table. I think that's a dangerous line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	If that were my line, that would be a dangerous line, I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma. I also wish him a great deal of budgetary treatment in this Chamber. But that's not my line. My line is that substantial steps need to be taken, such as the withdrawal of heavy weapons to the borders indicated for that purpose. I think that's a substantial step. That step hasn't been taken yet. If Ukraine were to grant autonomy and forms of self-government in that region, that would also be a substantial step. Both sides have not yet taken such substantial steps, although they are part of the Minsk Agreement. Let us insist that these steps are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have also been struggling all morning with a feeling of melancholy that I am trying to overcome and the idea that this will indeed be the last treatment with Mr Van Bommel. I am happy to hear that his worldview, which is the opposite of most of us, has not really changed. Of course, the villainy state of Israel should preferably be sanctioned as soon as possible. Negotiations with Turkey must be terminated. But Russia should preferably be treated with velvet gloves. I would like to ask Mr Van Bommel the following. We have seen a few debates in the European Council on whether to retain or increase sanctions. Every time that happened, there was room for negotiations with Russia, for example about Aleppo. The situation there is terrible. We all share that. Can Mr Van Bommel, if he wants the reality to prevail, not see that the pressure on Russia, for example with the possibility of doing more with sanctions, means that the Russians are sitting at the table and not just to take the broken rifle that Mr Van Bommel is showing up again today, taking it off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	We must always listen carefully to Mr Ten Broeke, especially when he is going to quote us. "Israel rogue state" is a term I've never used before, never.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	No, you just have to take that back, you have to be sporty in that. If you're quoting me, you have to do it right. 'Aborting the negotiations with Turkey' and'sustaining' are the terms we use for this purpose. Now on Russia and the attitude towards sanctions. Yes, there must be constant pressure on Russia, but so must Ukraine. We are only looking at Russia in terms of sanctions, and that is wrong. In doing so, we leave the corrupt regime in Kiev free, so that it can take the steps it is taking and abandon the steps we are asking for. That is not good, and that is also very well heard in Russia. As long as we in the West focus only on Russia and do not look at spoilers, spoilers that we regard as our ally, nothing good will come of this conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	The most important geopolitical means of pressure we had with regard to Ukraine has taken Mr Van Bommel off the table with the association agreement. There was everything in it to push Ukraine further under pressure and there was everything in it to further discipline Ukraine. That is not what we are doing. We are undoubtedly both looking at what is happening with the Minsk Agreement and the number of violations. Can Mr Van Bommel indicate whether he thinks he should give a similar appreciation of what Ukraine is doing and what Russia is doing at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	I understand that I have received a great deal of praise in the last budget debate, including from Mr Ten Broeke, but I did not, of course, withdraw that treaty from the table. The Dutch people were able to express their views in a referendum on 6 April and have been very clear about this. So let's not exaggerate, I was just one of the many people who said: we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	Well, I also wanted to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Of course, the degree to which the Minsk agreement is not respected and violated can be given a different weight. That is absolutely true, but that does not mean that you can eliminate the mistakes of others; 'because they are just a little bit more wrong, we simply continue on our path of increasing sanctions and ignoring the agreement and the desired outcome'. No, we are also a player in this whole. We have to ask ourselves what will happen if we increase sanctions. What does this mean for stability, for the risk of further flare-up of the conflict in that region? We can say 'we are right and that is why we are making full progress', but if the consequences are bad for stability and security in Ukraine and ultimately for ourselves, then that is an unwise route. I will continue with my speech, because that brings me to nuclear weapons policy. This has become particularly urgent with the election of Donald Trump, given his irresponsible statements about the use of the nuclear weapon. Unfortunately, the results of the cabinet are also disappointing in this area. We must, for example, note that there are still American nuclear weapons on Dutch soil, that these weapons are even being modernised and that the Netherlands is acquiring new fighter aircraft, the JSF, which are being equipped to deploy these weapons in the future. The fact that the Chamber has adopted a motion stating that the successor to the F-16 should not have a nuclear task is simply ignored. No further steps have been taken towards greater transparency or reducing the role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines, such as those of NATO. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this: how does this policy contribute to a safer world? How does he respond to Trump's statements about the deployment of nuclear weapons? Life-threatening, if you ask me. Another motion will not be carried out either. I am referring to the motion which states that the government must commit itself to starting negotiations on an international ban on nuclear weapons. Recently, a large majority in the UN voted in favour of launching such negotiations, but the Netherlands abstained. I admit, that's always better than voting against. It is of course a good thing that the Netherlands as the only country did not oppose the proposal, but the House of Representatives really asked for something else. That is why I call on the Minister to correct this misstep when the issue comes up again next month in the UN. Is the Netherlands prepared to vote in favour of an international ban in negotiations next year? I'd like to hear a response. I would like to draw your attention briefly to Egypt and, in particular, to civil society, which is increasingly under pressure there. Last week, a law was passed by parliament that brings the work of NGOs under the control of the authorities. Egyptian NGOs argue that this law actually makes their work impossible. Is the Minister prepared to contact his Egyptian colleagues to condemn this legislation? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I also have a question about detention policy abroad. From a case such as that of Mr Van der Dussen, who was wrongly imprisoned in Spain for 12 years, the accusation is that the Netherlands is doing little for this group. What is the Minister's response to this? Do other Western countries do more for their nationals? What are the consequences of the cuts in posts relating to visiting prisoners abroad? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Human Rights Fund, which is the fund that finances human rights projects abroad. Last week we discussed Dutch human rights policy in detail. We then found that respect for human rights is deteriorating in many countries, sometimes even at a rapid pace. We also noted that the Human Rights Fund makes a positive contribution to respect for human rights, for example by supporting human rights defenders abroad. That is why I am asking, together with Mr Sjoerdsma of D66, who will discuss this later, whether the Human Rights Fund for the coming year can be substantially increased. If human rights remain the cornerstone of foreign policy, the SP is in favour of this and we note that there is a serious decline in this area, then we must also be prepared to make more efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. "The end of history will be a very sad time," wrote Fukuyama at the end of his essay "The End of History?'. No ideological struggle, courage or imagination, no value to die for, but endless boring discussions about technology and constantly looking after the store called "humanity." But, this is how Fukuyama ends: "Perhaps this very prospect of centuries of boredom at the end of history will serve to get history started once again." I think it's the last, or as Shadi Hamid of Brookings Institution concluded: it's actually the end of the end of history. After all, the time of polishing our liberal world order is over, and I would almost say that of diplomacy as a rustic pastime is just as much, were it not that I had never taken that view? For decades, we have focused our foreign policy on improving and completing the Atlantic Alliance, NATO, and on spreading and deepening the international legal order through the European Union. Together, NATO and the EU offered the best guarantee of peace, security and prosperity, and now we are pushing for the foundations of this world order and the cornerstones of our foreign policy to be maintained in a time of bullies and autocrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	I am going to ask a question, at the risk that Mr Ten Broeke will now say that he will come back to that. Then I say, "I'd love to." Mr Ten Broeke spoke briefly about the improvement and completion of NATO. On that point of completion, I would like to ask a question, unless he comes back to that later. That further expansion of NATO...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	Not with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr Ten Broeke referred to 'completed'. So he obviously has a final image in his head. When did he say it was finished? Which countries are going to join NATO as far as Mr Ten Broeke is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	That's what I said in the past tense. I have said that we have spent decades completing NATO. Then I concluded that we should make a pass on that point. We are doing so not only because we want to do so ourselves, but because, as far as I am concerned, Ukraine is not becoming a member of NATO, and it cannot become a member of NATO, but also because international conditions force us to do so. The completion of NATO also has something to do with the fact that we are getting NATO in order internally, that we are modernising NATO and that NATO is finally going to get an answer to cyber threats, for example. I believe that NATO is lagging behind in this respect and that it is also lagging behind in the threats to which it should normally be able to respond. If I am talking about the completion of NATO in the future, you must also see it in that atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	You call improvement and completion. What you mentioned last, I see more in terms of improvement. Completion also has a quantitative aspect. There is clarity at one point: Ukraine is not joining. Does the VVD consider that, in view of the commitment made, the decision in Bucharest in 2008 that Georgia and Ukraine will one day become members of NATO should be clarified, at least to Ukraine but perhaps also to Georgia, that this will not be the case and that that commitment will therefore be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	You and I have had this debate many times. We have sometimes gone very deeply into the texts that reached the end of the summit. You can't just pull all this shit out of there. However, many implicit commitments have been made. I think my answer is very clear now: this is not the time to extend NATO further, at least with the countries you mentioned. But we also have Montenegro. I believe that you voted in favour of this last weekend in the presence of the rest of the Dutch delegation, which I myself attended. So there are countries that are even acceptable to the SP. If we do not strengthen NATO and the EU very quickly, if that is the word Van Bommel can better live with, the Netherlands will be freed from these plunder tankers. Without plunder tankers, the Netherlands will bob and the weather is rough out of port. Last year, when we discussed this budget, we were faced with enormous refugee problems. Then the deal with Turkey was concluded. Last year we saw an incessant stream of refugees. Now we see spectacular declines. In September 2015, before the deal, 147.000 migrants arrived in Greece. In September 2016, after the deal, there were a small 3,000. In October 2015, before the deal, more than 211,000 migrants arrived in Greece. In October 2016, after the deal, there were another 3.000. That's a 98.6% decrease. That is a phenomenal achievement of foreign policy. We rarely find that here, but in this case we can. The results were also visible in the Netherlands. The number of refugees who came to the Netherlands in the first half of the year after the deal was over 70% lower than the same number in the six months before the deal. In 2015, so for the deal, more than 59,000 asylum applications came in in the Netherlands. That was the highest number of applications since the Netherlands keeps track of migration statistics. The government estimates for 2016 were also not very much lower with 58.000 applications. Thanks to the agreements with Turkey, these estimates have recently been adjusted downwards to 32,000 after the deal. Then I haven't even mentioned the reduction in the number of drownings, the biggest humanitarian disaster that we all discussed here last year when we brought forward the image of Aylan. Not only from our values, but also from the point of view of results, the deal is phenomenally successful. It is important to consider these facts for two reasons. First of all, they demonstrate very strongly that a realistic foreign policy is not a luxury but a tough necessity. Anyone who wants to do business must be willing to make dirty hands. You'll get results, too. Secondly, it is important to let us understand that our foreign policy has direct domestic effects. If we make a deal with Turkey, the mayors here will close the emergency shelter in the azc's. So there's no way to ignore foreign countries. Populists in this house may not want to interfere with foreign affairs, but then foreign affairs will interfere with us. "Overseas" is now "under us." The late Piet de Jong, the former Prime Minister, unfortunately deceased this year, saw this sharply and once strikingly said that the world does not end but just starts at the beach. Unfortunately, his own party has been mainly on the beach for the past four years when it comes to taking responsibilities. She wasn't the only one. What about the party that always warns that we don't look over the dikes enough and which itself has stuck somewhere between the Prinsengracht and the Herengracht? Let's just say, between Amnesty headquarters and Human Rights Watch. Last week we saw the great statesman Pechtold tell the upcoming American president the truth with a Pronkian sermon. I couldn't escape the impression that congratulations to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau would certainly not have been deprived of a deceptive lesson about, for example, the Canadian arms deal with Saudi Arabia worth $15 billion. That's 1,000 times more than what the Netherlands exports to the Saudis. Moralisation has now become the trademark of many parties, but I would have expected more realpolitik from these parties. This applies not only to the Christian Democrats and the Social Liberals in the opposition. We find the same advocates in Europe, for example when people like Juncker and Verhofstadt put the European army forward once again, in response to the election of the US President. An American president who might be able to live up to what all his predecessors have often said to us, namely that Europe must stop its own pants by military means. I am opposed to European defence cooperation, but I am strongly in favour of defence cooperation in Europe. I am against the idiotic notion of a European army, but I am in favour of the announcement by the Netherlands and Belgium to buy frigates and mine hunters together. Anyone who wants to know how the deployment of the armed forces can fail if it is controlled by a supranational, civil organisation such as the UN or the EU should read the survey report on Srebrenica. In it you can read exactly how raw the consequences can be if you linger in a non-binding thought experiment or the collective belief "we have to do something." Autocrats around the world are mobilizing their supporters to oppose the existing liberal world order and to destroy the associated institutions. This "perfect storm" of great unrest and countercurrents that undermine the basis for our world order calls for realpolitik. No, she's demanding realpolitik. It demands the realization that we must deal with a world as it is and not as it should be. Between the moral finger of SP, GroenLinks, Partij van de Arbeid and D66, and the populist middle finger of the PVV and PVV clones and occasionally the CDA, I think there is a real room for a realistic foreign policy. This is now being suppressed in a screw of wise and middle fingers, but the urgency for that foreign policy has never been so great. Unfortunately, the Dutch Parliamentary area has never been so small before. I have set out the foreign policy principles of my party. I will focus today on two things: firstly, the interests and secondly, the values. That is precisely the balance I seek in Dutch foreign policy: first the need to focus on the ring of instability around Europe and then the need to focus on the concrete defence of our values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr Ten Broeke has previously sent us his ten commandments for a realistic foreign policy. This actually came up compact again. In many things I can recognize myself; the SGP agrees with that. The first starting point he mentions is that national interest is the primary driving force for foreign policy. In the explanatory statement, he added that we should never let the national interest suffer from moral considerations. I am looking for an answer to the question of how to find the border with only cold selfishness as a starting point. Can Mr Ten Broeke comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	It will not be surprising that the representative of the Stately Reformed Party is coming forward. I appreciate that Mr Van der Staaij has not only wanted to take note of the booklet I have written, but has also attached a certain degree of appreciation to it. I understand his need to put morality and moral politics against the realpolitik. The thesis in my booklet is that this realpolitik is the best thing for moral politics. In the introduction I write that it is necessary to make dirty hands precisely to exert influence. If we want to exert influence, for example, to make the world more righteous, just to speak in the terms of the SGP, because I would say to make the world more just, we must have that influence. Someone who loses influence and only looks himself in the mirror at night and says "I said it again" does not, in my view, take an acceptable form of foreign policy. I tried to write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	I agree with all that, but how is Mr Ten Broeke going, how does the VVD group deal with it if you may have to suffer for your own sake, but from the point of view of justice you should do something? Now it seems that there is really no room for that and that the national interest is, by definition, decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	You need to know your own interests and be clear about your first priorities. The first priorities of the Dutch State lie with Dutch citizens, the Dutch territory and also with Dutch citizens abroad and therefore with Dutch interests; these are national interests. That's been a dirty word in this room for a long time. Let us remove that taboo. I think it's about time. The Netherlands still has that reverend standing next to the merchant everywhere. Maybe Mr. Van der Staaij would love to see that reverend everywhere. Well, he's still out there. Last week we talked about the Human Rights Report. I have found this vicar in a small 70 countries in projects that tried to stimulate everything, including things that Mr Van der Staaij might not want to see as much as the spread of rights for lhbt'ers. In the end, you can only do that if you have influence, if you have a lever, a leverage, to use a bad Dutch term. I'm looking for that leverage, for that lever. Because then we can have influence. Then you do more about the moral politics that Mr Van der Staaij would so like to testify to than when you simply look in the mirror and say you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	Once again, Mr President, there were some challenging texts in Mr Ten Broeke's reply. I began by saying that I agree with Mr Ten Broeke on many points. On the contrary, we should not put morale so extreme in the face of national interests. Also with thoughtful concepts such as a just warfare is always not just about morality, should intervention be taken? But also to the feasibility. If you do that when it is not effective, it is not morally high. Let me make my core question very concrete. Let's say Israel's underfoot. The Netherlands has seen nothing in the national interest to fight this. However, justice is at stake. Does Mr Ten Broeke say 'we have no interest in it, so let it happen'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, I'm a big supporter of the Responsibility to Protect. That is the principle that Kofi Annan has supported since 2005. We saw this once in a UN resolution on Libya. If humanity is threatened with genocide or mass murder, such as in Benghazi, if the political opportunity can be found by, for example, forging a coalition and if a military effort is possible, then I am very much in favour of doing so. This is not only out of our own interest, but also in order to maintain certain standards. The Responsibility to Protect ensures that. I was the only one in this Chamber who dared to speak out for attacks in October 2013, if necessary on cruise missiles, on the arms arsenals of Assad, in order to guard the red line declared by the American President. A lot of MPs found the same thing, but waited a while to see what the American president would do. I am convinced that the fact that we have not done so has lowered the threshold for the use of chemical weapons. This weekend in Aleppo we have seen where that leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	The interruptions must be brief and the answers to them must be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	You will then have to pay particular attention to the latter, President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'm gonna keep an eye on everyone, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	I shall now give a very brief answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	I will first respond to the Responsibility to Protect, which Mr Ten Broeke is very much in favour of. I do wonder what he is going to do, because the Dutch army is not even able to properly defend the Dutch territory. That's not what my question is about, by the way. My question concerns the fact that Mr Ten Broeke shows himself as a realist and says that he likes to make dirty hands. The VVD succeeds very well, but the first one doesn't work. I refer to Turkey and the refugees. I note today that the VVD has allowed, has not hindered, that tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of people have come to the Netherlands who have no right to stay here. That's one. The second is that because of the so-called refugee deal with Turkey, the VVD has completely surrendered itself to every blackmail of the Netherlands that the authoritarian dictator...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	... in Ankara. So my question is: does Mr Ten Broeke recognise that he has not been a realist and that he has made dirty hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	That was indeed a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	Yeah, it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Ten Broeke has just taken the measure of every party in this Parliament quite extensively, except his own party. I still want to challenge him to reflect on the real political content of his party in recent years. I'll give him a few hints for that reflection. That could, for example, be the attitude of the VVD towards Russia. The VVD found it fantastic that the king went for a beer with Putin, even three weeks before he annexed Crimea. Nor did the VVD consider it necessary to campaign for the association agreement, which, according to the Prime Minister, was "a treaty," but is now of enormous geopolitical importance. So if Mr Ten Broeke is talking about correct geopolitical assessments and about things, and certainly threats, I would ask him to reflect on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	I believe that our approach to Russia is a great foreign policy of realism. For a year or three ago, we introduced the principle, which I believe is now also a firm notion in government policy, that you should not only act with diplomacy, i.e. with an open hand, towards Russia. Unlike Mr Sjoerdsma, I am convinced that we had to show that in Russia too. We have also shown this, and that has at least led us to keep the lines with Russia open. Russia is where it lies. It's a big country we can't think away from. We could wish it away, but wish politics is something other than realpolitik. So we're showing realpolitik there. In addition, we occasionally show a fist and even muscle, for example by military means such as the 4,000 men we're putting in the Baltic States from February onwards. It also applies to the economic sanctions, which I have supported from the outset. Unlike Mr Van Bommel, I am not in favour of alleviating these sanctions at the moment. When it comes to Russia, I certainly don't recognize it. And when it comes to Ukraine and that campaign, I think I made more miles in that campaign than Mr Sjoerdsma. His colleague, who also made those kilometres, has praised me not once, but several times for the number of debates we have had together. I am therefore not interested in the comment on this point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	The latter is a bit sad, isn't it? This was a somewhat sad answer at all. When you ask for reflection, you ask for a real reflection. Even when the greatest Putinadepts had long lost sight and they also saw what that man had in mind with his state, how he dealt with his own country, what threat he posed to peace and security in the European Union, the VVD was still here talking about the importance of Russian tourists for the Bijenkorf. That is where things already went wrong, Mr Ten Broeke. And let us be realistic: it also went wrong with the Ukraine Treaty. I will warmly commend Mr Ten Broeke for having been the only VVD campaigner for the Ukraine Treaty, but his party has not done anything about it. So if you want to take the measure of all the parties here, Mr Ten Broeke, take the measure. And then be realistic: you weren't a realpolitiker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	That is an interesting conclusion, but for Russia you cannot keep it up. Really, in the year of friendship that lack of realpolitik came from the parties who often felt that we should stop that year of friendship. I wonder how such a thing would have worked out for our ability, for example, to get the arrested people of Greenpeace out again. I wonder how that would have helped us get some cooperation on the MH17 file. Look, countries can sometimes show very unpleasant sides. Unfortunately, we no longer live in a world that we can decorate in our self-image, and certainly not in the self-image of Mr Sjoerdsma. Yet they are there and we will have to deal with them. Russia is a factor of enormous significance. If we want to alleviate the situation in Syria, we will have to sit down with Russia, whether we like it or not. Mr Sjoerdsma knows that very well. Mr Sjoerdsma is an educated diplomat, so he knows very well when to use what resources and what resources to keep from. Denying that countries have interests, denying that countries lie where they lie, avoiding your responsibility for, for example, participating in sporting events, the fact that these countries are also investing in the Netherlands or that consumers are actually visiting the Bijenkorf, all of this has nothing to do with a realistic foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	In my view, Mr Ten Broeke presents a remarkable contradiction here. He calls parties who want a moral compass in foreign policy unrealistic and he calls it a realpolitik, but without a moral compass. What is the meaning of foreign policy at all if there is no moral compass? Is the sum total of all that foreign policy, of all those countries without a moral compass, not an important cause of the misery in the world that is now there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	What you need is a compass. You need to know what you're aiming for. You need to know what interests you have and what interests you have to serve. A moral compass is a compass that is basically never calibrated. If you put everything along a moral measuring bar........................................................................................................................................................... I just mentioned my commitment to RtP, the Responsibility to Protect. I remember very well here the debate on the use of Dutch military forces not only to prevent a potential mass murder in Libya, but also to block the import of weapons into that country. The moral compass of GroenLinks, for example, led the entire Chamber to be dragged in to do something there. It was GroenLinks, when, after long consideration, we eventually exempted soldiers, who withdrew this support themselves in a debate in which GroenLinks threatened to be crushed between amoral ambitions and simply the dirty hands that you have to make for it and for which you must also dare to broadcast soldiers. Then GroenLinks came exactly into the situation between the hammer and the anvil, which I tried to describe here. So a moral compass... you need a compass. Moral considerations can always play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	In any case, Mr Ten Broeke is moving a bit towards the rabbit theorem he took earlier, also in that book of his. That's really denying a moral compass. The word doesn't even appear in it. But he's moving up in that sense, so it's getting a little more realistic. He's trying to counterattack here. That's a nice metaphor here by saying that other parties are also making mistakes. I will always recognise them, especially when it comes to these kinds of issues where there can be a tension between realpolitik and moral issues. However, I do not wish to do so, and that is the case for several groups in the Chamber, in order to have me lectured here. It is not true that the right to property is based on realpolitik in the VVD. I would also point out that Mr Ten Broeke still has a lot to learn. There must also be a moral compass, because otherwise foreign policy is not about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	In any case, I am pleased that the realpolitik debate is back in the Chamber. I will continue my speech with the ring of instability. At the beginning of my speech I mentioned the spectacular results of the deal with Turkey. It's called an immoral deal by some. Realism is also needed here. Not the refugees, but the smugglers have now shifted their routes. For them, the offer, especially from Africa, is inexhaustible. And so now people are looking at Libya. I could only agree when I heard Commissioner Timmermans say this week in his own documentary that he is shocked that the European Union has still not made similar agreements with other countries. He's absolutely right. We must make multilateral or, if necessary, bilateral migration agreements with third countries as well as with countries of origin. Those aren't clean deals. I realize that. Those are deals that we make in our own interests and that also have effects. Our first responsibility is to ensure that the ring of instability does not become a strangle ring. I'd like to hear from the Minister what's going on with these deals. I therefore refer to other migration deals, dealing with third countries but also with countries of origin. These are countries in the "Club Med" but also countries such as Sudan and other countries where many refugees can come from. The coalition has already made a significant contribution to the previous budget debate. The VVD, together with the Labour Party, then moved 30 million for regional reception and stability. I would like to hear from the Minister about these efforts. I would like to mention a few countries in this ring of instability in particular. First of all, Syria, perhaps the most visible result of the new world order, of tired Americans and powerless Europeans who are fighting against the Russians, the Iranians and possibly also the Turks who are eager to fill the power vacuum. I cannot help but notice that leaving the red line in 2013 was the beginning of a process which led to a profound undermining of the international legal order, catalyzed, and lowering the threshold for the use of chemical weapons. I, too, watched the footage of Aleppo this weekend, horrible images. I, too, feel that we should do something. I see toxic gases have been re-used. So let us do something. I made a proposal two years ago to raise the threshold for the use of chemical weapons. I voted in favour of the French plan to veto the P5 when it comes to a resolution on mass atrocities, particularly with regard to chemical weapons, because almost all the countries in the world that have signed it have ratified it. With the Netherlands joining the Security Council, there is a unique opportunity to work on this proposal together with Italy. The seat's inside. Unlike our membership of the UN Human Rights Council, I would like to see membership of the UN Security Council bring concrete results. I'd like a response from the Minister to my proposal. His predecessor was already flirting with the idea. I would like the Minister to embrace this proposal. Then I come to Lebanon. Last year I called for trade preferences, soft loans and other privileges to help the country achieve the reception of refugees and preferably work. I'd like to hear from the Minister about that. We know that there is movement in this area. The World Bank has an important role to play in this. Several countries, the more progressive donors, including the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and Japan, have committed concrete amounts. Can the Minister say more about this? Have loans actually been issued? If so, for which projects? The real litmus test of our foreign policy and, above all, of our foreign policy on our southern flank lies in Libya, the most fragile part of our European backyard. At a time when it is often unclear what the European Union's external action actually is, I would like to see all the focus put on Libya, with the use of all the foreign policy instruments: military, diplomatic, aid, trade, everything. All strategic and military means should be targeted at Libya, simply because this failed state poses a direct threat to stability in Europe. An adjacent building is on fire. We must put that fire out and not irrigate the rest of the world. If we can give the failed state that Libya is a little more backbone now, for example in the form of building a security and justice chain, then I think it is very necessary but also in our own interests. What's the Minister gonna do? What will he do with Italy, with whom we will be on the Security Council? Italy will be chairing the G7. Of course, we do not know whether Renzi will win his referendum at the beginning of December, but if he does, he will be given a huge mandate. I understand, when we were recently in Italy with the NATO Assembly, that Italy is willing to go very far when it comes to supporting Libya, including military. Neighboring country Tunisia also deserves our attention. The country must not fall into the hands of Islamists. It is as the cradle of the failed Arab Spring the most attractive loot for our enemy and radical Islam. We can help develop the port, combat youth unemployment, which is now well above 30%, and build solid institutions. Before everyone on my left starts waving: I don't mean OS jobs, but real jobs, trade jobs and training security services and the military. It is precisely Tunisia that has proven to have a certain resilience to resist the Islamic rebellion itself. We need to strengthen that. I would like Tunisia to be given much more attention, not only with the Matra amendment unfortunately forgotten by the Minister this year. Last year Mr Servaes and I made this structural, but unfortunately something went wrong in the elaboration. There is no doubt that Mr Servaes will come back to that, but as far as I am concerned it will be done with tough policies. As a third part of this litmus test, I call Egypt. Mr Van Bommel has already spoken about it. I've got a slightly different angle. Egypt is intrinsically vulnerable and actually too big to fail. In 2011, after the revolution of Tahrir Square, I expressed the fear that a boat was taken there as well. That is what we are seeing now in Egypt. It is now particularly important that the Sinai be purified from terror groups, that refugees be received and that Egypt be encouraged to continue to cooperate with the West. The country must not become the next toy of the Russians, which can be used as a weapon and then once again destabilise our continent. After Sykes and Picot lifted their heels, Nasser soon chose the Russians. With the Americans doing the same thing and not giving the Saudis home, an Egyptian reorientation could just come out in Moscow again. We can't have that. So it's time for an outstretched hand and not a cold shoulder. How does the Minister intend to shape this? Although not a litmus test of our foreign policy, but an evergreen that calls for the right approach, Israel is the canary in the mines of radicalisation and terrorism. Many still find it too difficult to look at Israel from a different perspective than the prism of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but this country is not a liability to us in that ring of instability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr Ten Broeke talked about investing in countries such as Tunisia and Egypt. My question is: does he agree that this minister is funding millions of cultural projects in such countries? Does he think that's a good investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u55	No, I think that's drunk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u56	Obviously. Finally a clear answer from the VVD, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u57	My colleague who does culture has tabled a motion on this earlier this week. Unfortunately, he did not make it, because there are a lot of parties with a moral compass that I think are fantastic that we are doing stage projects in Mali. I am very much in favour of theatre and Dutch culture, but I do not see the added value of this type of project in Mali, nor in Morocco. I was talking about Israel. As far as I am concerned, it is time to normalize our entry into Israel, especially as the country becomes an important partner in the fight against Islamist extremism. As far as I am concerned, any press release that the European Union is now spending on Israel's gratuite condemnation is a waste of time and effort. They don't go to things that really deserve our attention. The VVD prefers concrete improvements in the lives of Palestinians rather than meaningless declarations of solidarity. In this respect, it deserves a compliment that this minister, who once made a name for himself with a photo on the front page of the Volkskrant on which he played football with boys on the beach in Gaza, is now committed to concrete and realistic improvements. Thus he convinced Israel to supply gas to Gaza and to place a second scanner at Kerem Shalom. 1.5 million Gazans also have electricity and heat after 2020. This minister also made it possible to grow up to 1,000 trucks a day that Gaza can reach. I would say 'let 1,000 lorries drive'; that is the Middle East policy of this minister in a nutshell. We support that. It is concrete results that bring stability to the region and give real air to the Palestinians. If his European colleagues were to do so more often, Europe would be able to play a significant role on which my left-wing colleagues have so often tabled motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u58	It is good that Mr Ten Broeke is committed to these cooperation projects with Israel. Mr Ten Broeke has also tabled another motion to stop the labelling of Israeli products from Westbank. Is he now satisfied with the implementation of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u59	I don't think the performance of that labeling motion is that bad. Mr Voordewind did not quite correctly present the motion. What I have great concerns about is the funding of organisations that explicitly or implicitly support BDS. Government policy, and certainly my group's policy, is not to support BDS, i.e. Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. It is not a question of direct funding, but of indirect financing. I have not yet been able to determine whether we are doing enough. I think I'm still waiting for the answer... you're now indicating that it just came in. Of course, just before the budget is discussed. I think that Mr Van der Staaij and I will return to that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u60	The answers did come in last night. A little late, but you can see that in other budgets. Mr Ten Broeke quickly ignored his own motion and thus did not do justice to the intention of his own motion. I am now helping Mr Ten Broeke, Mr President. In that motion, Mr Ten Broeke said to the government: if you already allow this type of labelling, look at Northern Cyprus, Western Sahara and so on. We then had a reaction from the cabinet: it is very difficult and sensitive and it is not going to work with others. In doing so, the cabinet does create the appearance of discrimination against Israel. What is Mr Ten Broeke going to do to do justice to that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u61	I stand by the answer I have just given. The implementation and explanation given by the Minister to the motion is largely in our agreement. I would prefer that distinction to lapse completely. I believe that labelling should be a form of competition, a form of internal market policy. You label because you want to give consumers clarity and not to let consumers vote with their feet politically. The latter often seems to be the motivation of many. I cannot deny that I sometimes suspect the Dutch policy to have that motivation. But it is difficult for me to criticize the Minister's response to sec.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u62	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Ten Broeke also denounced the BDS movement. Of course, we should give him the space to read the answer, but the VVD has also spoken firm words about funding that movement. Now we read in the answer that indirect funding is still going on, possibly via the Dutch embassy, while that goes against our own cabinet policy. How's the VVD gonna react to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u64	I think I said that in my first answer. I haven't seen that answer yet. Of course, it arrived very late for the budget debate. So I would like to take a moment to look at the questions which the Minister has answered a little late. I can easily imagine that with the co-initiators, at least with Mr Van der Staaij if I do not want Mr Voordewind, I will look at my excuses and see whether we are satisfied and whether we feel that this motion, tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind, is now being implemented and supported by Mr Knops of the CDA. So that's what we're gonna take a very sharp look at. Finally, I'm going into the east flank. Russia is the greatest geopolitical challenge for us, for the EU and for NATO. Russia wants respect. Respect is perhaps the cheapest instrument we have to offer in the instruments of our foreign policy. Respect is of course achieved with serious diplomacy, even by not turning down a beer occasionally, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma, but above all with muscle and with the fist of economic sanctions. We have had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Bommel on this. As in the case of the defence budget debate last week, I am here on behalf of the VVD in favour of a strong NATO and I would like to put an end to all the suggestions that NATO's security umbrella could be replaced, collapsed or that there should be a small EU mini umbrella underneath it, which merely duplicates it. We certainly cannot do it for the time being without the nuclear deterrent within NATO. I would like to see it different, but reality commands us to make a different assessment on this point. No, strengthening the alliance is not provocative. Just showing weakness, that's provocative. The lack of willingness to defend our own values is provocative. Russia provokes to Transnistria. It provokes to South Ossetia. It provokes to Abkhazia. It provokes to Crimea. It provokes the Donbass. It also provokes Aleppo. Our behaviour doesn't suit us, not against the caliphate, but also against a new Tsar empire. This will cost security, prosperity and ultimately freedom. I wish to defend this freedom, within our borders, at our borders, but also across our borders. We must therefore stand up for Dutch values, because without freedom no values. I would like to see this ministry, which is all too often abused by the Chamber as a ministry of global improvement and good intentions, show itself even more strongly as a ministry of advocacy, a vehicle to stand up for Dutch and Dutch values. I am proposing something concrete today, as a result of my colleague Jeroen van Wijngaarden's note. It is something tangible with which we can improve the lives of Dutch women and girls in this case. Not by sprinkling hard security missions even further with a gender sauce, no matter how big the compass is, but by standing up for them in concrete terms. Hundreds of girls in the Netherlands, often abroad, are the victims of forced marriages. These are the so-called "force brides." Girls with at least a Dutch passport are married against their will in countries like Iran, Egypt and Sudan. This will deprive them of their freedom in the most profound way possible. My group would like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do more for these girls, more before they stand up, more than it already does with a centre of expertise, which in itself is useful. We want the Ministry to use government officials to get Dutch victims of marriage coercion abroad quickly and safely back in the Netherlands. By pooling diplomatic, consular and legal knowledge and actively helping to bring victims back to the Netherlands, much more can be achieved than is already the case. In the UK, it's called a Forced Marriage Unit. In Norway too, they are now going that way; there is much further than in the Netherlands. I would like to see such a unit following British and Norwegian example, which deals with tracking, accommodating and repatriating victims. These girls deserve more protection than we're offering them now. Our values deserve more protection than we currently offer. I have prepared an amendment, together with Mr Sjoerdsma; we will see exactly how we are going to do it. That amendment could lay the foundations for that unity. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is open to that proposal and how he looks at it himself. This is the last budget of this ministry in this regular cabinet period. I would like to give the Minister a fair and sincere compliment on the fact that, contrary to the expectations of many, it has to do with realistic considerations with a parliament which I have said sometimes has excessive expectations of the feasibility of all the ideals that are expressed here. That deserves praise. But we are not yet here: this ministry can focus even more on representing and defending our interests, rather than what this Chamber would very much like and very often see, displaying good intentions and acquiring a beautiful reputation in the corridors of New York and Geneva. That is what the Netherlands demands from the Ministry, and that is what I expect from this Minister during the last months of his term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u65	I expected Mr Ten Broeke to come back to the issue of migration, but apparently it was still a bit of a Turkey deal. I will try to find that connection: where the VVD and D66 do find each other, when it comes to the importance of care in the region, is to ensure that people who flee the most terrible things, in the region, preferably as close to home, have as good as possible. That is in their interest, but also in our interest. But I am sorry to see in the VVD programme that there are substantial cuts in resources to fight that for each other, development cooperation. How realistic is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u66	Last year, the coalition shifted 30 million to regional shelter. 30 million! That is, when I look at the final budgetary discussions, I have already experienced a few on average speaking between eight and ten times more than this Chamber is able to move on to that budget every year. I think that's a lot. As is well known, not everything on the OS budget goes to regional reception or to the refugee problem. You can have a lot of criticism, like Mr Azmani's plan with which the VVD came last year, criticism that D66 has on the table, but if I simply look at what this cabinet is doing in regional reception, I see that we are at half a billion when it comes to regional reception in the countries around Syria: Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. There are few countries that do more than the Netherlands, absolutely and relative. In the UNHCR, the Netherlands ranks three times in the top fifteen: through the government, through private spending and through the institutions. No country mimics us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u67	I too am proud of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u68	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u69	But I am not asking Mr Ten Broeke about the policy of this cabinet, because that is well known. My party has also contributed to this, especially in the case of emergency aid: the fivefold increase in what Mr Ten Broeke has brought together. That too is not enough. I ask Mr Ten Broeke about his party's policy. For now the cabinet is doing a great deal of reception in the region, but Mr Ten Broeke's electoral programme does the opposite: it removes the necessary funds. I therefore ask you once again: is your party realistic when it comes to the problem of migration? I'd say not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u70	The difference between D66 and the VVD, and therefore Mr Sjoerdsma and myself, is that he sees OS as the perfect means of achieving regional reception, while I am standing here arguing for all the means of foreign policy to be deployed, to use all the instruments of foreign policy. Let us take Lebanon as an example. Mr Sjoerdsma and I have, I believe, visited twice the camps where the refugees are being received. I find it impossible for a country, simply because it is a middle income country according to the definitions for ODA Official Development Assistance, to qualify development aid for soft loans simply because it does not meet the requirements. That is why I would like to change those definitions. That's not a question of money. That money comes right after that. With $10 million you can realize an infrastructure project there, if you could just get around those horrible definitions. Fortunately, the Netherlands is doing so now, at least with a number of progressive donors. I think this is a contribution, a real, concrete contribution to the needs of refugees in a country such as Lebanon, where 25% of the population is already refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u71	Of course, we must use all the instruments to keep countries such as Lebanon and Jordan on their feet. I have been arguing for four years to make these countries partner countries, but your party is not in the mood to do so. You didn't think there was any need for trade preferences...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u72	There are for that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u74	You didn't agree with all that at the time. Now you say: I want that as broad as possible. Yes, but at the same time, in that wide pallet of instruments, you will unpack one, important, instrument, development cooperation, let us be honest about that too, Mr Ten Broeke, that remains an important instrument, despite those trade problems that exist and you will simply remove that instrument from the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u75	We are not removing development aid from the toolbox at all. I'm just making that toolbox less blunt. I just indicated where development aid is an obstacle, simply because you are not prepared to change the definitions. If you say: I want more partner countries, then that's all nice and at your service, but you don't delete anything white. It is very easy to walk to the microphone here and not carry any responsibility and to say more, more, more, more, but then you should also tell us where it all comes from. I have often challenged you during this kind of debate to indicate whether you are also prepared to delete a country. Then D66 doesn't give home. That's the problem. We must do it with the limited resources available. Within these limited resources, the VVD makes choices and we opt for regional reception and security. We first got this country back in the hooves. Fortunately, your party has supported us in this regard at a number of crucial moments. Then, when we are ready and we have some extra euros to spend, they go to regional reception, but also to defence, to name but a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u76	I can still see you, Mr Sjoerdsma, but I think you have asked all the questions you wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u77	I know that, Madam President, but I would appreciate it, perhaps I should quote Mr Van Bommel now, if I am quoted correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u78	Well, you might want to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u79	I am prepared to look at where the money for this kind of partner country should come from. That's what I've always said. However, I am not prepared to simply delete something, as Mr Ten Broeke would like. I said that there are partner countries which are now being phased out, and that aid could well be redirected to Lebanon and Jordan. Then Mr Ten Broeke must also be real about this and then he must also acknowledge that his party has always voted against all my party's motions until he himself had an amendment containing exactly this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u80	You've made your point. Mr Grashoff may now intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u81	I would like to make a comment about the VVD and development cooperation. I have heard Mr Taverne, a colleague of Mr Ten Broeke, here on development cooperation. He could take a seat in the benches at the PVV. It was just a story about: let's stop tomorrow. That is in stark contrast to the, fortunately, more nuanced story of Mr Ten Broeke. That was not my question, however. My question is about realpolitik. Does Mr Ten Broeke not agree with me that it is not realpolitik if we want to adopt a firm stance towards Russia, which he has very strongly advocated here, and at the same time we are in the process of exporting incredible quantities of Russian oil through our port of Rotterdam and we are a gas roundabout, in which the supply of Russian gas in particular is crucial and that we are therefore actually trying to finance the cruise missiles at our eastern border and the fighter jets above Aleppo along a detour route?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u82	No, as bad as that is, that's the definition of "realpolitik." That definition is precisely that you face the fact that you should not sacrifice your trade relations with Russia a) directly and b) can also use it. That's exactly what happened. I wasn't in favour of ending the year of friendship with Russia in between. I think this has contributed to the release of all of our friends from Greenpeace. You have to deal with countries like this the way you deal with them. That may be unpleasant from time to time, but in foreign politics you cannot afford to take everyone to your own standards. You can try. Then you must first look for a lever, for leverage and influence. If you have it, you can achieve other things. I'm in favour of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u83	This is the most absurd answer to a non-asked question I believe I have ever heard. You mentioned the year of friendship. I didn't mention the year of friendship. I'm really starting to get angry, and I'm not getting mad at Mr. Ten Broeke, but I am now. He shouldn't bring up a year of friendship, because I didn't mention that at all! On the subject of influence, I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. You do need leverage. That leverage is on energy policy. So if we want to get something done and take a position, we should be the first to get rid of this dependence and therefore abandon that crazy gas roundabout strategy, so that we can actually influence it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u84	I did not mention the year of friendship because it was in Mr Grashoff's question, but because it was a fine illustration of how to deal with it. Mr Grashoff seems to blame me for still allowing the port of Rotterdam to be used to carry out oil and gas. I don't see any objection to doing that. Russia is as dependent on us as it is on us. I would almost say that these gas pipelines are heading in one direction and the flow of electricity is generating the other. What do we do? With economic sanctions, for example in the oil and gas industries, we are gradually putting pressure on Russia. That also has effects. In my interrupting debate with Mr Van Bommel, I also indicated that, as soon as you do something more, you suddenly see minor changes in behaviour. The idea that we should stop with the gas roundabout today or that we should close the port of Rotterdam for Russian gas is not only an approach that you are going to shoot in one's foot, but will not change anything, and really nothing, to the Russian attitude in world politics, which we would like to see, whether it is the Iran deal, Aleppo or our relations at the eastern border. You have to do it with three things. Firstly, economic sanctions. That's what we've got, and that's what I've been arguing for. I am not in favour of alleviating sanctions. Secondly, with clarity about your military cooperation and, if necessary, with more troops at the border, in order to maintain the security guarantees we have agreed with each other within NATO. Thirdly, you do so with the open hand of diplomacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u85	I think Mr Ten Broeke knows very well what I am talking about. I even suspect that if I woke him up in the middle of the night, he'd agree with me. If you have a weapon in your hands, they are not troops in Poland, but then that is energy independence in the Netherlands and Europe. We must promote this as soon as possible, so that we get Mr Putin out of his hands a very important geopolitical instrument. It would be a credit to Mr Ten Broeke if he were simply to say that publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think it is an interesting debate, but let us take Mr Grashoff's and his party's attitude as a guiding principle. They don't want Groningen gas, they don't want shale gas, they don't want Russian gas. All people want is alternative sources of energy. We're not gonna make it. You do want the whole population to shower for ten minutes every morning. I love it all, but it's not very realistic. We will have to do everything and we will have to make the battle for energy independence. This cannot be done by closing the port of Rotterdam for transit today. This can't be because of the gas roundabout that the Netherlands has a lot of use for and which we all benefit from every day, but to close for a while. You have no alternatives at all, you must be realistic about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u87	To my surprise, the VVD supports the migration deals that must be made with the African countries in order to combat economic immigration. If we take the beginning of the 1960s, when a lot of those countries became independent, then we know two things. We know hundreds of billions of development money have gone there. The conclusion that the World Bank draws on this in its own report is: one thing we know for sure, namely that we do not know what helps. At that time it was mainly and still is mainly about states and governments that are corrupt or have no control over their own countries and that for many reasons they are not able to guard their own borders either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u88	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u89	Where does the VVD's confidence come from that we are going to stop economic immigration if we are going to pump more billions into it from within the European Union? The consequence of the policies of recent years is that people could get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u90	I do not know if Mr Monasch was already present when in my first term I put together the facts of the deal we have, the deal with Turkey, but there are rather spectacular results in that. It may even be 80%, 90% less refugees, and that is purely due to the Turkey deal. I would say: I rest my case, Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr Ten Broeke has missed an important point. We put hundreds of billions in there. They're states that can't control their own territory. The Turkish Government can do that, but the governments of many of these African countries cannot do that, because, as some say, the state cannot even make the traffic lights in Accra work, as some say. Mr Ten Broeke has confidence in that. We're putting a lot of money in there. Why do we not impose conditions on the money flows that are already going there? Why would you send any more money there? Would it not be better to say to the World Bank or to our own policies: I'm sorry, we'll just cut that short if they go through with this and if they don't stop them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u92	I very much appreciate that Mr Monasch is taking part in this debate, but it would be nice if he could listen once in a while, because I have just mentioned the World Bank issue in detail. There was a proposal last year which, fortunately, was also supported by the group that Mr Monasch was still part of at the time. As a result, in countries like Lebanon, we can work together with the World Bank to ensure that money does work and that it really works as a lever. That's a little different than all the bins of money we've spent since the 1960s. They have had very little or probably no effect or result; I fully agree with Mr Monasch. I hope that in recent years he has also made that sound in the group he was in at the time. Mr Monasch asked about the effectiveness of this deal. This is the only deal we have. I have just argued in favour of making more deals like this, with Lebanon, with Egypt, with Tunisia, but also with countries of origin. So I am actually advocating exactly the same thing as Mr Monasch just did. So we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u93	I am afraid not, because Mr Ten Broeke trusts the government of Mali, the government of Chad and the governments of many countries there that have no control over their own territory. In general, the regimes there are corrupt and have no control over their territory and Mr Ten Broeke is therefore going to put money in a bottomless pit because those countries have proven to be able to stop economic immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's bullshit. Mr Monasch has come here to speed up the interrupting microphone. Baking with OS money didn't work. That is why I have just said in my interrupting debate with Mr Sjoerdsma that we are very critical of OS. We see development cooperation as a means, but you have to do it differently. I think it is much better to do so through low-interest loans, because you are using them very specifically. In northern Lebanon there are three or four UNHCR camps. I believe that about 430,000 refugees have been gathered there. None of them can work, so they have no perspective. They'll take a boat soon. Then they call a Turkish trafficker to transfer them. If these people can get to work, if, for example, they could build an infrastructure project, it would be good for Lebanon and for those refugees. We can do this very easily with a few donors by putting that lever in motion. That does not support Lebanon's budget, and we should not, because budget support is precisely what Mr Monasch rightly pointed out. These are the proposals we are making. I count on your support, Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend I was with a number of colleagues at the six-monthly Assembly of NATO, in Turkey. There in Turkey, the country of many faces and many positions, it became clear again what challenges the transatlantic alliance faces. The instability around us is increasing: in North Africa, in the Middle East, in Eastern Europe and in the Balkans. With the Ukraine crisis, geopolitics came back from never before and a struggle for spheres of influence arose again. The Arab Spring, as it was once described, is degenerate into chaos and an advance of radical Islam. Al-Qaeda and ISIS control parts of Syria, Iraq, Sinai, Yemen and Africa. Thousands of jihadists travel back and forth. From Raqqa IS organizes attacks in Europe. And what if a country like Egypt implodes now? Do we have our own house in order? Power is shifting rapidly from Europe to other parts of the world. As was evident in Turkey, there is an authoritarian trend and human rights and democracy are under pressure. The influence of the West is simply decreasing. Repressive regimes take over each other's practices and the rule-based order shakes. Also in the West itself, with us, there are political upheavals: first the Brexit and then the election of Trump. The consequences of this are of course not yet known, but are possibly far-reaching; think also of the relationship with Russia, the atomic deal with Iran, the Syria war, the climate treaty and TTIP. As far as we are concerned, the reflection on Trump and the Brexit should not be a flight forward towards a federal Europe. We are not in favour of a European army, a European OM or a European CIA or FBI. There is a huge challenge to control the migratory flows that will continue in the coming years, but we must not stand up to the US and the United Kingdom. Let's judge President Trump by his actions. Our group remains in favour of the transatlantic link. We need each other. Secretary General Stoltenberg said last Sunday: "We need strong defence, coupled with meaningful dialogue." One simply cannot do without the other. The Americans are quite right when they say that Europe needs to stop its own pants more. That's what I've been arguing here for years. Europe has no lack of soft power and no lack of ideals. We must increase our capacity to act and dare to be more assertive when necessary. Otherwise, we will only stand by and watch from the moral heights how potentials and terrorists will determine the course of history and thereby threaten Europe and sometimes blackmail it. With the return of geopolitics, there is also a classic role for the armed forces: deterrent, power development and behavioral influence of potential opponents. It is also important to reduce dependence, particularly in the field of energy, which has just been discussed in an interrupting debate. The import of Russian gas has increased enormously. Our group therefore calls for greater self-sufficiency, anchored in a broader cabinet policy, and for cooperation with industry to make the most of offshore gas fields in the Netherlands. I would like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that he himself, I would almost say, has finally expressed himself quite explicitly in favour of much more investment in security. That is what is urgently needed at the moment. Last week we discussed this in the discussion of the defence budget. The deficits have risen to 1 billion. The Netherlands simply does not honour its commitments from Wales and dangles in terms of spending on the seventeenth place. What does the Minister think of this calving reputation of the Netherlands? Last year, the Prime Minister said that we are at war, but the armed forces are barely deployable and cannot defend us and our allies sufficiently. The cabinet and this Minister for Foreign Affairs, too, have allocated five years to restore basic capacity. We're contributing less to NATO operations. The question is how the Minister sees this from a foreign perspective. Strikingly, the Minister also pleads for task specialization. That suggests you're not gonna do a few things anymore. What tasks should the Dutch defence sector no longer do, according to the Minister? The Minister also called for a European FBI and CIA. He thus de facto opts for an EU as a federal state. That goes far too far for us, while at the beginning of this cabinet period this cabinet wanted to cut the foreign branch of the AIVD. According to the Commander of the Armed Forces, developments in Eastern Europe and the Middle East have surprised the Netherlands by the cuts in intelligence. The entire predictive capacity of NATO and the EU would have been reduced. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on this point. Intelligence services can work very well together without transferring power to Brussels. We need more eyes and ears in the ring of instability, also diplomatically. At the time, the Chamber took initiatives to this end; I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma has set it in motion. The Minister rightly advocates extending the postal network, but why is he cutting back on security, stability and the rule of law in the international context (Article 2.4), consular services to Dutch people (Article 4.1), the regulation of movement of persons (Article 4.2) and the use of public diplomacy (Article 4.4)? What will be the impact of these measures? I will continue with radical Islam. The French Prime Minister Valls called Islamic totalitarianism enemy number one. Last year my group said that what communism was in the Cold War is now radical Islam. In reply to our question whether it shares the position of the French Prime Minister, the cabinet is the answer: 'Complicated problems have no simple solutions'. That's a very open door. It is, of course, a totalitarian ideology that clashes fundamentally with Western society and civilisation, which is expansionist and wants to dominate others, and is actually the root cause of jihadism. The Minister doesn't want to see it. In fact, the cabinet refrains from judging the Salafist ideology. The Minister does pay for cultural projects for young people in Mali, Egypt and Morocco to make music, movies and games together; it has been said before. He does, however, spend money on tackling youth unemployment. This testifies to a high degree of creatability. On behalf of my group, I would like to draw attention to the difficult fight against IS and radical Islam in the area of, for example, women in the Arab world in the Karama network. They are committed to women's rights and thus, in fact, to the rights of all in a democracy in Libya, Syria, Egypt, Iran and other countries. Unfortunately, there is now a risk of bankruptcy due to a lack of money. The Minister doesn't contribute to this. Is he prepared to look at this, because this is a nice concrete example of fighting against IS from the bottom up? We have already talked about the import of salafism. A lot is being done about this in Germany. There are major police and judicial actions going on at 200 different locations. In the Netherlands, we have the example of Amsterdam-West, where salafists are threatening to take over mosques by force. It is proof that that threat is more evident than ever in the Netherlands. So the question is, what is the government going to do about this? The war in Syria is raging. It's a terrible drama that seems hopeless. We have no choice but to seek a political solution. Hopefully, the election of the American President will contribute to this. We will have to wait and see, but in the meantime we must continue to fight IS hard. The consequences of IS are immense. We have been with a number of people in Turkey last weekend. We spoke there with representatives of different political parties. We have heard President Erdogan and the Minister of Justice. The situation is extremely precarious: parliamentarians have been detained and mayors have been arrested. We must speak out against this more strongly and, like the Danish Parliament, condemn the case and press for the release of those parliamentarians. I tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter during the human rights memorandum meeting last week. The Minister did not advise them, but I hope that the motion will reach a majority. The position of Christians and churches is also extremely precarious in Turkey. The Minister must give his opinion on this matter. He must plead for them to return to the position where they belong. If we can believe Human Rights Watch, the Turkish authorities have issued a blank cheque for torture and abuse of prisoners. A CPT inspection team visited Turkish detainees in the period after the coup. It is very important that his report is made public. The European Commission should have access to this in the context of the update of the Visa Roadmap or for the next progress report. Is the Minister prepared to argue this? It is also a worrying development that this country, in which we see all sorts of worrying developments, has close ties with Putin and Russia. Contacts are currently being established for the purchase of weapons systems. The Minister of Defence was very clear: she felt it was an undesirable development that the Turks now wanted to buy Russian weapons systems after they first wanted to buy Chinese weapons systems. Is the Foreign Minister prepared to make this possible within NATO? After all, it touches on the core of the community of values and the confidence that allies must be able to have together, and this only makes things more complex. Together with other parties, we have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the situation of Christians in the Middle East. Christians are the worst persecuted believers in the world. The Minister does not want a UN investigation and explicitly refuses to appoint the greatest threat of Islamic fundamentalism. We are very disappointed that our motion has not been carried out. It called for specific policies to be developed with regard to Christians in Iraq and Syria, exploring the possibilities for specific aid programmes for displaced Christians. Germany has done so for Armenian Christians. Is the Minister still willing to look into that? I am looking at my time, Mr President, and I see that I cannot say everything else I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u96	Fine. It's also about quality. I see that Mr Ten Broeke wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u97	I was hoping for an interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u98	It was not quite clear to me what Mr Knops thought he was arguing. Maybe he can shed some light on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u99	This is a very open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yes. Was this inserted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u101	No, it wasn't inserted. That was absolutely spontaneous and that is why I do not understand the question. Perhaps Mr Ten Broeke could be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u102	I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u103	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Sjoerdsma, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr Ten Broeke has already tried it very collegially. I'm gonna try it sometime. If you had a few minutes left, what would you say, Mr Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Sjoerdsma. Extremely useful, this interruption. I would like to say a few words about the Middle East peace process. I understand that the announcement prompts immediate reactions. Frankly, that process is extremely uncertain. Every year, the prospect of a two-state solution, which our group still supports, is reduced. It's farther away now than ever. Now that the Kerry initiative has failed and Trump comes to the wheel, the question is what will happen and what will become his policy on the Middle East. The announced French initiative to bring parties to the table would be cancelled. France might want to make way for other initiatives, from Egypt and Russia. Could the Minister, on the basis of his information, give the latest state of play? I realize that there is a great deal of uncertainty on this point, but since we in the Chamber are talking so much about this initiative, I think that question is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u108	I thought this was a clear answer to my question. I still have a follow-up question, this time a substantive one. The concerns that Mr Knops raises are, in my opinion, legitimate concerns. This Minister said earlier: I am not ready to go for recognition now, but at a strategic moment I am prepared to go for recognition of Palestine. When I look at the United States, I see that the window of opportunity, the chance that we are going to do something meaningful, is getting smaller. I suspect that once President Trump is in power, freedom of movement will be zero. You can already see this from the French, who are likely to abandon their peace initiative. I would also like to ask Mr Knops: is this the strategic moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u109	That's a very complicated question. In retrospect you can conclude that there have been a number of moments in recent years, but that they have not been used. On the question of whether this is the most strategic moment, I am inclined to say no. Why not? Trump's arrival is surrounded by a lot of questions. In the past things were also said about Reagan, but in the end he concluded a whole series of agreements with the Russians, many of whom had thought impossible. Depending on the direction he chooses, it is perhaps possible for this new president-elect, with this background, to force a breakthrough. This would not be a strategic moment for the recognition of the Palestinian State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr. Chairman. "If we want to act effectively, we must start from the world as it is." That is the essence of realpolitik in one sentence, pronounced by Robert Kennedy in 1966, so 50 years ago. But of the world as it is now, in 2016, you're not exactly getting optimistic. Was 2014 the year in which Europe sprang up from geopolitical hibernation, the year in which we realized that we once again had a serious threat at our external borders and the year in which we suddenly felt the threats in our inner cities, 2016 is perhaps the year in which we realized that the foundations on which our own Western societies and our mutual cooperation have proved less solid than we had hoped or thought. An EU Member State willingly seeking the exit. A NATO alliance in which a coup attempt was thwarted, but in which democracy still threatens to go head-on. Next, a new resident in the White House who doesn't want to bring down walls like one of his predecessors, but who wants to build new walls. And in all western countries, even here, the right feeling in groups of people that progress has passed them by, and populists who conveniently go along with their fact-free rhetoric and their "together for our own" agenda. The shock after the Summer of War in 2014 may have been greater, but personally I find the developments in our own circle, which we see today, even more so if possible. However, if we are to act effectively, we must start from the world as it is. How effective is the Netherlands in the world? Quite effective, at least the creators of the European Foreign Policy Scorecard say. This year they called the Netherlands "leader" in no less than five categories, which resulted in a shared second place, only behind Germany. These categories included shaping European policy towards Russia, the way in which we operate in humanitarian emergencies and also, an important point in last year's debate, our support for the countries in the ring around Europe. You could even say that that policy is extremely effective when we consider the impressive array of positions in the international arena, which the Netherlands and the Dutch have regained in the past.I call it just two years of Timmermans and Koenders. We have had a successful EU presidency. We have leading positions, not only in the Commission, but also in the euro group. We're members of the International Syria Support Group. We're co-chair of the Global Counterterrorism Forum. We're members of the Human Rights Council. Our UN top lady Sigrid Kaag occupies a key post. And we're going to be members of the Security Council. Put that list down against the previous reign, with Rosenthal on behalf of the doogekabinet-Rutte I, when the Netherlands stood out at most when the Eastern Europeans were fighting against them or chose the all entrance to the Middle East. But even then, the question remains what to do with that regained position in a rapidly changing world. Going out of the world as it is, as Robert Kennedy said in 1966 and also put some speakers here today? Of course we must do so, because we must face the enormous challenges of our time without any naivety or daydreaming. We must be open and honest about the real dilemmas and the inevitable compromises in international politics. But assuming the world as it is, as far as I'm concerned, never means that you have to accept the world as it is. It never means the relativisation or subjugation of human rights, nor does it mean ridiculing our human rights policy or Human Rights Fund as a collection of obscure and ineffective subsidy projects, as the esteemed coalition colleague did in the notary consultation last week. Nor does it mean hugging dictators and therefore falling into the trap that the growing group of authoritarian leaders are setting up for us. They say they stand for stability, but they actually ensure future instability by excluding or prosecuting large groups in their society. Although simple solutions to complex problems in these uncertain times have a certain attraction, it does not become much more than symptom control. That is also why my party is proposing to invest in all three D's of foreign policy: diplomacy, development cooperation and defence. Unfortunately, there are very few in this Chamber who can repeat that to me. Going out of the world as it is, but never getting down to it. That is essentially what we are asking of this minister and the cabinet, and indeed also of a subsequent cabinet, but that is a matter of concern later. At least this PvdA Minister has shown that that is his commitment. He did this by saying that there is no pause button for human rights. By putting the protection of the civilian population at the heart of the missions we undertake and making them part of the review framework. By strengthening arms exports policy and showing courage in the negotiations on nuclear disarmament. By opening the way for new research into the colonial war in Indonesia and thus doing justice to this black page in Dutch history. By taking a stand against 50 years of occupation of the West Bank and at least promising recognition of the Palestinian State. By continuing to break the cliffs for diplomacy as a way out for the Syrian nightmare and to assist rare heroes such as those of the White Helmets financially and morally. But can you make it a little sharper? Absolutely! The PvdA Group would like to see the Netherlands as a sharp driver of EU discussions and other international discussions, for example with regard to the Russian action in Aleppo or the need to drastically reduce our own energy dependence on Putin's gas. I would also like to mention the current situation in Turkey, where another border has been crossed in recent weeks. The arrest of fellow people's representatives and democratically elected mayors calls for a clear response from Europe. That is what is being discussed in the European Parliament this week. We would also like to see the Netherlands taking the lead in the fight against ISIS not only focusing on the military rail but also on the reconstruction of recaptured areas in Iraq and hopefully later in Syria. If we do not do this with the utmost urgency, we will create the conflicts of the future and, I am afraid, create a new ISIS. We would also like other cabinet members, in particular the Prime Minister, to work across the border not only on the value of our export interests but also on the importance of exporting our values. It went wrong with the beer with Putin, it was painful in his Heineken-promoprate for the AVVN and it was missing in his call with Trump. At all events, the Prime Minister rarely speaks in normative terms about the major international issues and dilemmas of today, with the exception perhaps of that one press conference a few weeks ago. I would like to ask the Minister a few specific questions. I would like to begin with the support for progressive forces, particularly in the ring around Europe. Last year, in a motion by PvdA and VVD, the Chamber asked for strong support for civil society organisations in the countries at the European eastern and southern borders. We initially looked at the budget somewhat disappointed, but I have seen a supplementary letter in the meantime. I believe that Mr Ten Broeke still needs to see that letter, which adds 4.5 million to the Dutch Regional Partnership Fund. That is both the Matra and the program at the southern border. Thank you for that! However, I have also understood that the programme broadcast managers (PUM), which sends experienced Dutch entrepreneurs to support SMEs in the same region, would no longer be open to Eastern Europe, the Western Balkans and countries in the MENA region. Is that correct and, if so, is the Minister prepared to reconsider this decision? This support is also important in the ring around Europe. Furthermore, following an increase in 2016, the amount now earmarked in the budget for the promotion of human rights is slightly reduced. I have seen that two colleagues have tabled an amendment to substantially increase that amount. In any case, I would like to bring it back to the level it was at last year. Perhaps we can discuss this together to see how we can work together. Then something about ourselves. Last week, we discussed how important it is for your credibility in the world to appeal not only to others but also to themselves, for example, to take the lead in ratifying human rights treaties. The main outstanding issue in the 2013 Human Rights Note in this area is the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which provides for an individual complaint right. Why has the cabinet still not ratified this protocol? When can the House expect a proposal? Then I come to talk about the values of culture. This has already been mentioned today. It is a subject that we, as foreign speakers, hardly speak of, but of which some parties seem to suggest, in my view even suggest, that cultural policy is purely a national matter. I do not share that view. Can the Minister share with us how cultural policy can make an important contribution to the various aspects of our foreign policy? I am talking not only about diplomacy, but also about very specific issues such as trade and security. I'm rounding up. "If we want to act effectively, then we must start from the world as it is."," said Robert Kennedy in 1966 during a speech in Cape Town; a great speech. He didn't leave it in that speech. In the key passage he cites the beliefs of his brother murdered three years before: "If there is one thing President Kennedy stood for, it was the belief that idealism, high expectations and deep beliefs are not incompatible with the most practical and efficient programs, that there is no fundamental contradiction between ideals and realistic possibilities. It is unrealistic to solve problems and take action that are not guided by moral objectives and values, although we all know people who claim they are. In my opinion, this is ill-thought foolishness, for it ignores the reality of human faith and of passion and conviction." With these almost Catholic triads, fans of Kennedy and his work might need to rethink their vision of foreign policy. That is a plea for a values-driven foreign policy that has not lost any strength or topicality 50 years after that. It is for that foreign policy that the PvdA has fought with other parties and with many civil society organisations from the Chamber over the past four years, but fortunately also from trade union K. It is for this value-driven foreign policy that we will have to continue to fight at a time of increasing uncertainty at our external borders and in our own society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. "The Netherlands is almost constantly panicking about everything." Those aren't my words. Those are the words of Maarten van Rossum. We also saw panic over the patriotic spring last week. By this, I mean that more and more citizens want to regain their national sovereignty over supranational organisations, such as the European Union, and citizens can correct politicians who do not represent them well with a referendum. If those words by Van Rossum "The Netherlands is almost permanently in panic" are true, then the panic in the past few weeks of the established political and journalistic order about that patriotic spring does not mean anything new under the sun; really nothing special and unusual. Certainly, there are major changes in Europe and also in the Netherlands. Those are hard to digest for politicians who think they know everything better than the voters. Politicians like Frans Timmermans, who recently said that it is time to start listening to the citizens. But the fact that politicians say they're going to listen to citizens doesn't mean they're going to. It certainly does not mean that they will follow up on what those voters want. I refer to the Ukraine referendum. Above all, it does not mean that politicians who think they know everything better than the voters abandon their policies of non-viable ideals, which lead mainly to costly wars and other forms of money wasting. Voters who, for example, do not want an EU army and waste money on corrupt African countries and other failed states, know that they are being cheated in the face of the elections by politicians who are now suddenly reporting that they are going to listen to the citizens and also by politicians who are now suddenly coming close to the PVV under the guise of realism. It is time for the Netherlands to separate itself from the foreign policy of foolish left-wing hobbies, such as subsidising the Palestinian failure state. On 11 November 2013, I already asked questions about the evaporation of EUR 2 billion in development aid to the Palestinians and the subsidising of salaries for convicted Palestinian terrorists. This led to a two-year investigation by the IOB, after which the government needed seven months to bless that investigation in a letter. But tough conclusions didn't work out. NGO Monitor only took two weeks to show that this entire IOB research was based mainly on self-evaluation by the grant recipient and ignoring important issues such as the stealing of aid funds by terrorist organisations and the celebration of pseudo-peace NGOs, which mainly support campaigns against Israel. But it's worse. In her letter, the government wrote that the Netherlands does not finance organisations that support Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel, but NGO Monitor took two weeks to prove that the opposite is the case. Moreover, the government believes that Israel is sensitive to pressure from a friendly nation like the Netherlands. Government-subsidised organizations nurture this and justify their existence. No wonder they receive subsidies from the government. That own Palestinian state on the West Bank and in Gaza is exactly one of those non-viable ideals. The reason for this is the behaviour of the Palestinian leaders themselves. Corruption, oppression, glorification of terrorism; that is their trademark. Our government and the European Union are still happy to contribute to this. As a result, the Netherlands also makes it possible for the Palestinian Authority to pay salaries to convicted terrorists and their families. It accounts for 6% of the Palestinian budget. "This pay-to-slay scheme has got to stop." I'm impersonating an American Democratic People's Representative. As far as PVV is concerned, all Dutch ties with the Palestinian Authority are being broken today and all subsidy cranes to that authority and the NGOs supporting it are being shut down today. I ask the government to do so as soon as possible. And wipe out that blemish from 1974 when the Netherlands was forced to remove its embassy from Jerusalem. The embassy belongs in the capital of the country of Israel, thus Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u112	Is Mr De Roon aware that his request to stop all forms of subsidy to the Palestinian Authority immediately will probably count on the greatest resistance from Israel, the Israeli Government, and certainly from all the parties on the right, who can generally count on the sympathy of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u113	What other people think of it, it doesn't send me a message. Our group believes that these Palestinians do not deserve that money and that they should not get it. We believe that we should not keep that nonsense Palestinian project alive with a subsidy and that we should simply stop doing so. What others think is irrelevant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u114	My appreciation for the sovereign attitude of the PVV in that regard. We will remember that for the future, but I say the following. The efforts of the international community to keep the Palestinian Authority on its feet are not only supported by ourselves, but also very much encouraged by Israel, precisely for the reason that it is directly and personally important in Israel's security. The legitimacy of the State of Israel, the maintenance of the State of Israel, is one-on-one dependent on the cooperation and functioning of the Palestinian Authority. Not only do I say that, but the Israelis themselves say that, and that is something that I think the PVV really cares about. If you take this argument seriously and embrace it, Mr De Roon, and do not have to jump on the luggage carrier of Netanyahu or anyone else, I cannot put your plea to stop immediately supporting the Palestinian Authority in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u115	The continuing funding of that Palestinian Authority, of that Palestinian State and of all the terrorism that it entails is to keep an embryo alive through the breathing apparatus. You can do that for another 20 years, but it won't lead to anything. You need to quit, and you need to stop now. This will lead to problems, and I am aware of that, but these problems will be resolved. I am going to say a few words about Turkey, because that country is increasingly moving in the direction of an Islamic dictatorship. Since the failed coup in July, more than 550 institutions, newspapers and press offices have been closed; more than 130,000 people, including civil servants, soldiers and policemen, have been cleared away and more than 36,000 have been detained. There are parliamentarians, scientists, artists, writers and hundreds of journalists in Turkish prisons and thousands of judges and prosecutors have been expelled from office. "The judiciary is simply dismantled," spoke the blanket of the Turkish counter last week, when he was visiting our country. "The cleansing in Turkey is reminiscent of Nazi methods," said the Luxembourg Foreign Minister, Asselborn, at the beginning of this month, and he is just right. This whole culture of Turkey simply does not tolerate democracy and the rule of law. Turkey is an ally to which the VVD handed us over by approving that blackmail refugee treaty. This is a very regrettable matter and we are now seeing the consequences. It's an ally the PVV wants rid of. Under no circumstances can Turkey become a member of the European Union. Even the European Parliament has said: stop the negotiations on this accession, but the European Union, being extradited by that damn treaty, continues and wants to continue. What is happening in Turkey does not seem to matter. One wonders how many journalists and MPs Erdogan still has to arrest and how many officials and teachers still have to be fired before there is another view. In the coming years, EUR 4.5 billion will be spent on development aid to Turkey, if it is up to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u116	Last weekend, Mr De Roon, myself and a number of colleagues in Istanbul attended the NATO Assembly. That is where I spoke on behalf of the Dutch delegation against the purges carried out by the Turkish Government. There I have spoken out for the journalists who have now been imprisoned in greater numbers than in China. I have also spoken very clearly on behalf of the Dutch delegation about the ten Kurdish MEPs who have been detained, but that does not relieve us of the obligation to look at what can be done most effectively to receive refugees regionally, for example in Turkey. Then I have to say once again that I have heard one, Mr De Roon, not distance myself from what I said there and two, that he cannot indicate what his solution is to keep refugees outside Europe, if he wishes to do so with me. In any case, the current deal is spectacularly successful, which I was able to demonstrate in my first term with figures and percentages. With Mr De Roon I have heard nothing but demagogy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u117	Those were very nice words from Mr Ten Broeke, but there are no VVDs and Mr Ten Broeke's actions to contradict, refute and counter what Erdogan is doing in that country. The only thing the PVV is interested in is preventing people who do not belong in the Netherlands from coming in here. At that point, the VVD has failed miserably. The VVD has unfortunately concluded a treaty with which it has surrendered itself to blackmail by Erdogan. After all, what will the VVD do if Erdogan simply unplugs the refugee crane again? The VVD doesn't have an answer to that. That's how the VVD became blackmailable. She made dirty hands and basically didn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u118	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u119	Of course we made dirty hands. You always do that when you make a deal with someone else. You're gonna hang for that deal. The same goes for the other side. The contract may be terminated by either party at any time. But we have all been able to see that Erdogan is sticking to that deal for the time being, although we know that he's not in favour of that deal; he's even fired a Prime Minister for it. I say to Mr De Roon that he keeps the deal, which means that in the Netherlands mayors have been able to close azc's and emergency shelters. We have effectively done something about the enormous influx of refugees. Mr De Roon has done nothing but stand here a little roaring behind the cathedral. He has no solution at all, and he is now blaming those who have achieved spectacular results for having taken the wrong attitude. Mr. De Roon, your party is way off. Moreover, if you had been so concerned about the situation in Turkey, you could have expressed yourself better last weekend in the NATO Assembly. I was the only one who spoke out against it. I hope that was still on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u120	There is no doubt that the VVD is partly responsible for the presence of about 100,000 people who have no right to stay here. They have come into our country thanks to the failure of the VVD. The second thing the VVD realized is that it was blackmailed by that treaty. That's failure. The only thing that would have really helped is closing the Dutch borders. That is something the VVD simply does not want from an idealistic point of view. Mr Erdogan has said that he is going to turn his eyes to the east, to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. I have to say, he's just right. Erdogan is right about that! He must look that way, because that is the people he belongs to: Putin, the leaders of China, Kyrgyzstan and such countries. He's one of them. He's not part of Europe, he's not part of NATO. The PVV wants the negotiations with Turkey on accession to Europe to be stopped. Nor does the PVV need Turkey as a NATO ally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's tough language from the PVV. It's okay. The debate in the House of Representatives is in favour of sharing these views. I ask Mr De Roon what he thought of President Erdogan's speech last weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u122	I thought that was a lousy speech, because in it he asked the NATO allies, to my regret, we are still his NATO ally, to help him in the fight against the PKK. Well, the PVV says very clearly: we're not going to do that. He's responsible for his problems with the PKK. He caused it himself. He himself invaded Iraq to attack the PKK there as well. He himself invaded Syria to attack the PKK there. Everywhere he wants to expand Turkish-Ottoman power. He's got this whole mess to blame for himself. Then we'd be crazy if we said, as a NATO ally, that he's suffering from the PKK, so we have to help him? No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u123	That is an answer, but not the answer to my question. Mr De Roon cannot give that either, because Mr De Roon was not present at anything last weekend. He went to Turkey at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. He did not attend any meetings there, not with the HDP delegates, not with the AKP and not the speeches in the Assembly. So Mr De Roon is just talking out of his neck, I'm sorry to say it. Because he wasn't there anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think Mr Knops is mistaken. I have been able to follow these speeches very well, even though he has not seen me. I have said what I have to say. The fact that I have not been to meetings with Kurdish politicians has nothing to do with the fact that, although we do not support Erdogan at all, we have nothing to do with these Kurds. I have nothing to discuss with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u125	We all went there, paid for Dutch tax money, because we can do good things there in that Assembly. A number of other Members have been there. I do not like to do it, but if Mr De Roon uses such big words, I note that he has not been present. I do not know what he has done, he can explain that to himself, but he has not been anywhere: he has flown there, he has flown back, which I do not think is the way we maintain interparliamentary contacts. That is what we are going to do with the debate with supporters and opponents. Mr Ten Broeke made a detailed statement on this matter in the Assembly. I note that Mr De Roon has kept his head down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u126	That is really nonsense, because I attended Mr Knops' speech at one of those meetings myself. He may not have seen that, but I was there. I'm not gonna go through with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u127	Something may be corrected if it is not true, but I would like to conclude this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr De Roon just spoke of blackmail. I assume he means you're gonna turn yourself over to someone that's gonna get you out of control. You then have no influence on your own point of view, because you depend on that person to solve certain problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u129	That's exactly what the VVD did, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u130	In the meantime, that's what you mean by blackmail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u131	That's exactly what the VVD did, is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u132	Apart from what I think of the Turkey deal, you could also argue that the PVV is being blackmailed. The PVV is financed by David Horowitz, an anti-Muslim man, someone who is very strong for Israel. By the way, an old Marxist. That doesn't quite fit your party, but well, you're going with the weirdest parties in the sea. Aren't you blackmailable? Don't you turn yourself into exactly the same blackmail? Do you actually have control over your own views if you get a ton a year from this man and his center?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u133	What a bunch of bullshit this is all. The PVV Group is not funded by anyone, and I certainly am not. So there is no question of blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u134	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u135	Bit of a bunch of bullshit? The party finances are public. That is a great asset in the Netherlands. If you look at the gifts received by the various political parties, you will see at the SP that the directors pay for everything. You can also find something about that, which is, of course, half tax evasion, but you know where the money comes from. But in your case, the PVV has €100,000 at the Horowitz Center. Then you can say that's not true, but it's just there, so it's true. Your party made that statement on its own. So again the question: aren't you just as blackmailable as you blame the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, it is not, because the PVV Group is not subsidised by anyone, nor by Mr Horowitz. The PVV Group is driven solely by the funds it receives from the organisation of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u137	I think Mr Van Bommel wants to make something right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Sjoerdsma, my esteemed colleague of Democrats 66........................................................................................................................................................... I would like to take that as a personal fact, so that it is not included in the Acts. In my view, it is not the way in which we are debating each other here through criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u139	You've made your point. I ask Mr De Roon to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u140	In general about the Islamic world: it is a mess, and cleaning up that mess in the Arab world, from Mali to Yemen and Afghanistan...................................................................................................... We must stop making senseless missions, it is the job of the Dutch Government to prevent the mess there from having any consequences for us. The PVV has made very good proposals for this. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. Radio World Broadcasting was no longer subsidised by the government, at least this year's deadline, but to our stupid surprise they were now receiving subsidies from the Human Rights Fund because of the promotion of the free speech. Radio World Broadcasting calls itself a social chance organization, but their media reports show that it is a Islamic and left-wing organisation. I have never noticed anything about the promotion of freedom of speech by World Broadcasting. I therefore ask the government to simply stop this subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr. Chairman. The world has never been as prosperous and developed as it is today. Extreme poverty and hunger are slowly being reduced and we are getting older than ever. A historical number of children go to school. This progress was not self-evident, thanks to far-reaching cooperation, free trade and scientific progress. But, as previous speakers have said, this progress is under very great pressure. Freedom is on its way around the world. A torn Middle East, threats from Islamic State, a refugee crisis, pressure on the European Union and a climate disaster. In addition, a president has been elected in the United States who disputes the foundations on which this cooperation, free trade and progress are based. Trump is questioning the Atlantic Alliance, wants to get rid of the Climate Agreement, wants to tear up the nuclear agreement with Iran and want to stop free trade agreements, while he is insulting Russia. If this man really says what he does and does what he says, then it has big consequences for the world order. We cannot accept these developments. We must not stand still, but look forward, just now. Looking forward also means looking realistic at the challenges ahead. I do not think that the track record of this cabinet and also of certain political parties in this Chamber is very impressive in that respect. Under the guise of realpolitik, which is now being co-opted, dubious deals are being made about refugees, for example with Turkey, which gives Erdogan more power than ever. In the area of migration, the European Union is now working with the President of Sudan, Al-Bashir. And the Netherlands is okay with that. The cabinet also opposes a full arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, while Saudi Arabia commits war crimes in Yemen and silences critical noises, sometimes even literally. I am not talking about how the facts are being followed up with regard to Putin's Russia. In early 2014, the Prime Minister had the King toast with Putin and less than three weeks later Putin annexed Crimea. Or take the association agreement with Ukraine. At first, that was a simple trade agreement, which did not require a campaign. But after the 'no' vote, the Prime Minister will finally start the 'yes' campaign, because the'geopolitics' treaty appears to be of enormous importance. Or take the waiver of additional sanctions on Russia, while that country bombs hospitals and aid convoys in Syria. There is enough questionable cooperation with dubious figures, but in the meantime, when one of our main allies, the United States, knocks on our door and asks for help with the closure of Guantanamo Bay, we do not give at home. Under the guise of realpolitik, this cabinet, led by Rutte, seems to think that the Netherlands fits modesty and restraint, that it is not in our best interest and perhaps even belligerent or brutal, to stand up for our own values. But with such short-term opportunism, only temporary stability and false security is bought, while the basis for long-term stability is undermined. Moreover, if we do not try to move countries using cluster munitions or leaders who are helping human rights defenders or journalists or democracy to change their behavior, then what are our principles worth? How seriously do we take our values? And, more importantly, what incentive is there for these countries to adapt their behaviour? That is why we must invest in our diplomatic service, in development cooperation and in defence. That is also why we at last have to achieve a serious energy policy at European level, a serious security policy and a serious asylum policy. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. For a moment I thought I saw Mr Van Bommel come forward to interrupt, but I still owe him his interruption. Mr. Chairman. As I said, one of the greatest threats at the moment is on the east side of the European Union: Russia. Putin wants to weaken and break up the European Union. In addition, no means are shunned. Military harassment in airspace and at sea. Impacting elections, offline and online, as we saw during the election campaign in the United States, for example with the leaking of WikiLeaks. Russia was able to tell what WikiLeaks was going to announce before WikiLeaks' official announcement. The Kremlin admitted to having been in contact with Trump's campaign team. Merkel now fears that such Russian influence will also take place during the elections in Germany. The CIA already investigated the role of Russia during the Ukraine referendum. Does the Minister know what this investigation has resulted in? Financially, Russia supports political parties and movements that turn against the European Union, such as the French National Front of Marine Le Pen. Russian nationalists would also have planned an attack against the Macedonian Prime Minister. I think it is crucial that we arm ourselves better against this. Does the Minister have knowledge or any signals that Russia is trying to influence political parties, movements or organisations associated with political parties? I would like the Minister to seriously examine whether Russian funding flows to Dutch organisations can be linked to political parties or civil society institutions, as long as there are sanctions against Russia. Is he willing to investigate that? I come now to the issue of human rights. Mr Van Bommel and Mr Servaes also mentioned it. The Minister writes that this year he is putting more money on human rights as a result of Mr Servaes's and myself's motion, but that extra money is, of course, a shift of resources and comes from the same article of the budget. Isn't that even misleading? Is that extra money for human rights, or is that rather a different stamp on it? In fact, instead of extra money, the Foreign Office currently needs to cut 6 million, including human rights. What's the Minister cutting back on? What programmes or activities are being deleted? To counter this trend, my group, together with the SP Group, has tabled an amendment. If you find that human rights are falling dramatically worldwide, then you must also do everything you can to stop and combat this decline. That is why we are proposing a substantial increase of EUR 10 million in the Human Rights Fund. We are thinking in particular of prioritising the freedom of the press. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Much has already been said about the Middle East by several colleagues. For the sake of time, I want to join some of them. I'll start with Syria. In Aleppo, one of the last remaining doctors said, seems to be playing a horror movie, a horror movie unfortunately without end. There are more besieged people there than ever. Poison gas is still being used there. It is an exception to this budgetary procedure, but I would like to repeat to Mr Ten Broeke: let us see if we can ensure that this P5 can give up its veto in the Security Council when it comes to such matters. I think that is a sensible initiative and a good proposal. With regard to Iraq, I would like to join Mr Van Bommel's questions on the elimination of the root cause of the ethnic conflicts on the ground. Mr Knops spoke extensively about women's organisations and Karaman. I like to join him. These women's organisations do a courageous job, but at the same time they must operate on the brink of bankruptcy. Then I will deal with Israel and Palestine, including in the Middle East. I would say: we will have to see how Trump's election works out for some things, but for Israel and Palestine I find it difficult to be optimistic. France seems to want to withdraw the initiative for a peace conference, the United States might move the embassy to Jerusalem and the chance of real peace seems almost lost. In that respect, I would say save what is to be saved. Earlier, the Minister said he would consider recognising Palestine at a strategic moment. There will probably not be a more strategic moment than now. Now the Netherlands and Europe should send out the signal: negotiations are more necessary than ever and, in order to ensure that negotiations can take place equally, we recognise Palestine. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. It is a core task of Foreign Affairs to ensure that Dutch people living abroad are well served, in a positive way, but also when things go wrong. Almost a million Dutch people live, work or study abroad, but that's a child that's underwhelmed. There should be more attention to their interests and their involvement with the Netherlands; as far as I am concerned, that is the core task of Dutch diplomacy. Services provided by foreign and online posts should be faster and more accessible. This applies, for example, to the application for a passport or a DigiD or to the participation in elections by these Dutch people. Additional capacity and expertise should also be available in order to deliver customised services, e.g. on long-term services in complex cases. Romano van der Dussen's case was mentioned in that context, but one can also think of more recent cases such as those of Singh in California or those of Peter de Bruijn in India. However, the Minister cut back on this service. This year, too, there will be cuts in the consular services. Why is that? What exactly is the Minister cutting back on? D66 wants to reverse this austerity and invest in it. I have therefore tabled an amendment to the budget to ensure that the budget for this consular service is increased by 2.5 million in structural terms for next year's services for Dutch people abroad, including those for people who are really in trouble and who have complex problems. This serves Dutch people abroad and strengthens our diplomatic posts. This amendment is currently supported by a good number of parties: the VVD, the SP and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u142	I have already seen the amendment. I think it looks very good, if the coverage is right, but I have no reason to believe that that is not the case. As far as I am concerned, as Mr Sjoerdsma also knows, there is something about the idea of bringing that forced Marriage unit into our consular efforts, because it is a very concrete interpretation of what Mr Sjoerdsma just referred to as the core of our foreign policy: standing up for Dutch citizens. The same applies to Dutch girls and young women who are married out against their will. In Britain and Norway, this approach has produced enormous results in order to bring these girls and women back. Mr Sjoerdsma just mentioned my support for his consular commitment. It would be nice if he could speak out for this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u143	On this point, and perhaps only on this point, Mr Ten Broeke could have been my lyricist, because that is exactly what my next block is about. I would have liked to say that I find Mr Ten Broeke's proposal very sympathetic and that it is very important to do more to tackle this kind of abuse, this kind of forced marriage. Mr Ten Broeke referred to Britain's and Norway's approach as an example, and I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u144	When I heard Mr Servaes' first term, I thought I was his lyricist. In it all kinds of beautiful things came along. I am very willing to make some suggestions for Mr Sjoerdsma in future, especially when he is so keen to get broad support for that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u145	My colleague Stijn van Hooff will thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u146	Such warm words. I'm getting really hot myself. I have a pretty dry, financial question, actually. For the rest I also feel a lot of warmth; that's not the point. I have also been able to see the amendment. Mr Sjoerdsma says that there is simply good cover for this, but I am a little confused, because it is suggested that this amendment is not yet public to cover this by, above all, saving costs by placing professional attachés in posts under the State Department regime. I am very much in favour of this measure from the point of view of 'equal monks, equal hoods', but it is then proposed that this be dealt with in the spring paper. Now I am confused, because either, we have an amendment to remove money from one post within the State budget and put it at another post, or we are tabling a motion to see if anything can be settled in the spring paper. How am I supposed to read this? Which way are we going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u147	That seems to me to be a fair question. First of all, I would like to say something about the background to the coverage and I would also like to clarify a little. The 4 million which will be used partly on the basis of my amendment and partly on the basis of Mr Ten Broeke's amendment comes from cutting fees from professional attachés to the level of foreign foreign diplomats. I actually think that's a very elegant solution. In other words, professional attachés receive more compensation in structural terms than their BMI colleagues, considerably more, because this amounts to EUR 4 million a year. That seems undesirable to me, because I believe that 'one Empire, one Arrangement' applies. So you just have to equalize that to the level for most people. That's 4 million euros. Mr Servaes is right to ask what this is about. I refer, indeed, to the Spring Note, but this is due to the fact that officials from the Ministry of Finance have put this option on a possible menu choice card for a future formation. They didn't deliver there either. I don't have access to the exact size of the ministry. I would have preferred to have made some seven amendments to get each part of those 4 million neatly to the Foreign Office at each ministry. Since I do not have access to it myself, and because this Minister and the Ministry of Finance have to give access to it, I can only really do so in the Spring paper, unless this Minister thinks this is such a good idea that he is going to deal with it himself with his colleague Dijsselbloem. Saves me time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you for the comprehensive explanation, but frankly this confirms a little my fear. There are three sympathetic thoughts on the table. I remember that in the past the President of the Chamber also argued for something to be done against the marriage of young girls, when she was still a "simple" MP. There is also the idea that we should have "one Empire, one settlement." I think that too is a good idea. There is also a proposal to take our consular services to an even higher level. I think that all three proposals are very good, but before we go into the second period, I would recommend that we make sure that these three good intentions are covered in real terms and in this budget. I may be sympathetic to it, but I know my financial spokesman in the PvdA Group, who likes less sympathetic intentions and more decent funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u149	You don't want to fight with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u150	I am not worried about that at all, because while the PvdA's financial spokesman may have some stringency, ours is renowned for its severity. I couldn't stand here without proper cover. I do not see Mr Koolmees standing in the wings to whistle me back. I would also like to say to Mr Servaes that this option has been explicitly put forward by the accountants of Finance as a viable map in future formation negotiations. That is a sound cover. I understand that Mr Servaes blames me for not having devised ten amendments and not having been able to find out exactly how much money is involved in each ministry, but that is not feasible for me as a Member of Parliament. That is why I tried this way to solve this elegantly and intelligibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u151	We do not experience very often that you are actually trying to do business directly during the first period of the budgetary act. This should ultimately lead to results after the debate. Following on from what Mr Sjoerdsma has just said, and also because I take Servae's considerations quite seriously, I too have a very strict spokesman for Finance. The coverage seems to me to be very sound and also sound. I still have an alternative cover up my sleeve, but not everyone is equally excited about that. So let us at least have some time in the debate. That's what I'm telling you, Mr. Chairman. I know that you are sympathetic to some of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u152	Proceed, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u153	If you even enjoy the President's sympathy, you'll be fine. I had stayed with the Dutch abroad. I was talking about consular services in general, but I would also like to mention a number of specific cases. Unfortunately, this debate is not always scheduled. In the past we have had the case of Romano van der Dussen, who is now happily free, after a hellish adventure in Spain. In Thailand there is a Dutch coffee shop owner, Mr Van Laarhoven, who has been sentenced to 103 years in prison for a crime that is punishable in Thailand, but which is certainly not punishable in the Netherlands. He was convicted there because the request was made from the Netherlands to start a criminal investigation against him in Thailand. I'm getting the feeling that there's been injustice here. Has the Minister done everything in his diplomatic power to give this man a chance at a fair trial in Thailand? Will he do everything he can to ensure that Mr Van Laarhoven in the Netherlands and in a Dutch cell waits for the verdict in the course of a criminal investigation conducted in the Netherlands? Then there is the case of Peter de Bruijn, someone who has been grounded in India for over a year now. You can say all kinds of things and I cannot anticipate whether he is guilty or not, that is not my job, but I note that the time taken by that process and the way it is going leave to be desired. That is why I ask the Minister if he can ask his Indian colleague to at least ensure that the criminal proceedings are handled as quickly as possible. Whether the outcome will be guilty or innocent is up to the judges in India. Of course, we should not go into this, but I believe that the Minister can send a signal about the speed with which this happens. Finally, I have four questions to the Minister concerning Mr Singh who is in prison in California. 1. Has Governor Brown read the letters from the Netherlands? 2. What are the answers from the California authorities to these letters? 3. Did Prime Minister Rutte plead for Singh? 4. Who is lobbying Governor Brown or his cabinet for this matter right now? Then my final point: it is a small point, but it is not insignificant. The ports of the Netherlands are crucial for employment. This applies to Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Delfzijl and a number of other smaller ports. Rotterdam is still in the top ten worldwide: 90,000 people work for Rotterdam. At the same time, however, you can see that competition is increasing. For this reason, I propose that this cabinet should not wait for the next formation to designate a port ambassador, an international figurehead, a diplomatic heavyweight who is in breach of European rules or acts of unfair competition. With his diplomatic status, he can also try to open doors to opening up new growth markets, because in Africa and Asia in particular, these port companies are often in the hands of the government. In this way, the interests of Rotterdam in particular can be guaranteed. Antwerp already has such an official and I would like the Netherlands to have one. I'd like to get the Minister's response to this. The Netherlands and the European Union are challenged on various fronts. The answer to that is not standstill. Freedom and international law were never just abstractions for the Netherlands. They had nothing to do with the lifted finger; they were simply good for our own interests in the long term in the moral, political and economic sense. Too rarely is the point made that precisely the values underlying the international system are at the same time our interests at a much more fundamental level than an occasional export deal. They must look ahead to the world as it is, but strive for a world as it could be. Or, if Robert Kennedy is the leitmotiv of all contributions, another quote from him, or rather from his favorite Greek poet. Our goal must be "to tame the savageness of man and make gentle the life of this world."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u154	Since I can imagine that Mr Sjoerdsma has the same challenges as I have just had, I have another question for him. I didn't hear him talk about the Foreign Minister's speech on a European CIA. I actually expected this to be welcomed in a jubilant manner by the D66 Group. Does Mr Sjoerdsma still want to reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u155	That's a good question. Mr Knops knows that my group, especially after the attacks in Paris and Brussels, has passionately advocated that good information should finally be shared between the European intelligence services and, as far as my group is concerned, compulsory information sharing. So it is no longer on its own initiative or when it is convenient, because then people can slip into Europe through the loopholes of the network and under the eyes of our intelligence services. The cabinet never really wanted to support that. My group was very disappointed. In this respect, Minister Koenders' renewed understanding is commendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u156	Our group thinks otherwise. I even wonder if the effort D66 has previously made to impose all kinds of restrictions on intelligence services because of privacy does not have much more negative effects on capacity. I share Mr Sjoerdsma's view that much more investment is needed and that much more cooperation is needed. Does Mr Sjoerdsma not agree with me that we should do much more to build national intelligence services that work well together and that the idea of a European CIA really does not fit in with Europe as we know it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u157	A brief response, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u158	A brief reaction. As far as the importance of the national intelligence services is concerned, I believe that the CDA and D66 groups agree. It is not for nothing that my group, following the presentation of the coalition agreement, acted hard against the planned cuts: the entire foreign branch of the AIVD would be removed. In the context of that time I understand that a bit, but if you look back on that, of course that has been an extremely unwise move. I am glad that at the time I was able to ensure that that money was not taken away rücksichtslos. So 'yes' when it comes to the importance of our security services and the need to invest in them, but also 'yes' when it comes to European cooperation, which is crucial. You see what happens if you don't. Maybe we can still cook over the shape. You do not want a European CIA, but you undoubtedly want a very good cooperation. I do not think these things are as far apart as you are suggesting at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-23-tweedekamer-3.u159	I suggest we suspend.
