ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u1	Mr Bashir is about to address us. He has a five-minute speaking time. Mr Madlener will then speak briefly. Of course, a warm welcome to the Minister; sorry we had to keep you waiting for so long, but thanks to the spokesmen of the previous debate we can take a break. I call Mr Bashir. Conciseness is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is not just a debate, it is also the discussion of a legislative proposal before us. According to the Cabinet, tenants have no right to privacy. For years the Tax Administration has therefore provided information about tenants' income to landlords. Last month, however, a special ruling was made by the highest administrative judge. The Council of State has considered that there is no legal basis for income-dependent rent increases. This means a lot. For years, income data from nearly 2 million tenants have been unlawfully provided to landlords by the Tax Administration. Then these tenants saw their rent explode, even without a legal basis. So far, we have lacked responsibility for this. How is this possible? How can the Tax Administration provide illegal information about taxpayers? The cabinet says all the time: the privacy of taxpayers is sacred. For example, my group has asked for information on IKEA's tax structures, but it is not just shared. In the news, there has been a lot to do about billions of euros in taxes that IKEA does not pay off, through constructions. Members of parliament have to control the government. They also need to check tax structures. Therefore, as a SP Group, we asked for further explanations on this issue. How can IKEA pay so little tax? Today, however, we received a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance. He doesn't want to inform the Chamber about this because IKEA is entitled to privacy. The Secretary of State doesn't even want to inform the Chamber behind closed doors. But when it comes to tenants, suddenly there's no privacy. Apparently, landlords get to know all about them all of a sudden. How can the Minister justify, on behalf of the cabinet, putting these 1.9 million tenants in their shirt? Why does IKEA have the right to privacy and tenants don't have that right? I'd like to get an explanation on that. As far as we're concerned, the Minister has to go through the dust. You can't just do this, can you? Give tenants a rent reduction as compensation for the failing policy and do not allow this to arrive at years of procedures but settle with tenants. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Now the Minister has filed a repair law to legalize the privacy violations of tenants and the massive rent increases. This bill will have to pass the First Chamber, then it will have to be signed by the King and finally it will have to be published in the State News. This is going to take some time, and the announcement of the new income-dependent rent increases must be made before 15 March. So there's not much time. My party therefore believes that this year's income-dependent rent increase cannot and should not continue. On 15 March, the Tax Administration web portal must be open. We're not gonna make it. How does the Minister intend to deal with this in concrete terms? How's he gonna do this? It still has to pass the First Chamber, it has to be signed in the State News and it still has to be signed, but we don't have time for that anymore. My specific question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to stop the 2016 income-dependent rent increase. It shouldn't go on because we're late. The minister's late. The judge's been clear. Let us respect that statement and therefore not provide those income data. In concrete terms, therefore, I have two things. Stop all preparatory actions to continue the income-dependent rent increase. Stop it. Don't do it. Before 2016, let rents of 1.9 million tenants only increase with inflation. I like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. The income data of all Dutch residents living in one of the 2 million affordable rentals is almost a third of all residences in our country. It's not just about the main tenant's records, it's about all the roommates. That is bizarre and highly susceptible to fraud. This law makes it possible to make the income data that the Tax Administration has available to third parties. This is done in order to impose additional rent increases on families who earn a little more than a lousy €36.000. These rental revenues are then taken from the housing corporations by the landlord levy of 1.7 billion per year. That's a vulgar tax increase. People who do their best and make a little more money are taken back into the wallet by this leveling cabinet. I will tell you the truth about why the cabinet is doing so much to deal with so-called crooked housing right now. Why does the Cabinet do that so quickly? What happens to all those homes that have been released when those hardworking Dutch have been bullied out of them? They are given to asylum seekers for a very low rent. That's a disgrace. The PVV will continue to fight this cabinet with all its wrong choices. We will vote against this wrong law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. From this point of view, thank you to the President and Members of Parliament for the debate on mining, which allowed us to deal with this law in between. Mr Kamp has just come in, so I can thank him personally. Mr Kamp, thank you. The treatment of this law is actually a repetition of moves, because what is happening in this law is added an explicit order to the Tax Administration to provide income data to landlords............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The reason that the Court has to deal with this at two different times is that I could not judge which law would be dealt with the fastest. Because there is urgency in this repair, I found it very important that the repair be simple. Fortunately, the Law on the flow of rentals has been dealt with before. The Chamber will hear from me today the same arguments as were used a month ago. Mr Bashir asks whether the provision of income data at all is correct and not contrary to the right to privacy. In my opinion, recourse to a social housing unit should only be possible for people who are dependent on it, i.e. people with a small wallet. In this respect, the social housing does not differ from other services in our welfare state. We can only hold them up when only those people who are really forced to do so are appealing to them. In this respect, I am also somewhat confused about the position of the SP, because the SP has tabled an amendment in the debate on the lease market Act, which is also based on an income test. The SP puts the income limit at a different level than the cabinet, at €65.000, but also for the implementation of that amendment an income test is needed. If you don't let the Tax Administration do that, then the only other route that all tenants themselves provide data to the landlord, and that would be a huge challenge. I find it surprising to have the support of the SP for an income test on the one hand, and we only disagree on the level of income at which there is a right to a rental house and, on the other hand, to hear that an income test would be incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u5	The Minister is avoiding the question that arises, namely that for years the Tax Administration has unlawfully provided information. Now the Minister has put forward a bill to fix the law so that the Tax Administration can do so lawfully, but the Tax Administration has done so illegally for years. When it comes to privacy, I have put forward the example of IKEA, and the cabinet says that the right to privacy is sacred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u6	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u7	Why does the cabinet measure with double standards? Why has the cabinet unlawfully provided this information in recent years, and why have we not heard any justification for it so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u8	I will answer those questions, but I had hoped that Mr Bashir would also comment on my point. I have submitted that the SP, according to its amendment, is for an income test. Apparently, there's no difference of opinion. In fact, there are only two methods. One is that the Tax Administration provides those income data. That is the choice made by the cabinet, supported by a majority in the Chamber. The other would be that all tenants should go to the landlord every year to show their income. That seems very real to me. I think that is a fundamental political question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u9	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u10	I still haven't received any answers to my questions. I believe that Members of Parliament are asking the Ministers questions. Members of parliament must check the ministers. We are now in a different situation, namely that the Minister is asking questions to the Member of Parliament. That doesn't exactly make sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u11	Well, I was hoping we could cross right away. A political debate is always an exchange of views. I fully agree with Mr Bashir on the right to privacy. The details of the IRS are not placed on the street. Mr Madlener used those words. The data of the Tax Administration are used frequently in assessing the right to all kinds of social benefits. It is also very common for income data from the Tax Administration to be used even if the rent allowance is used to stay in our residential sector, on the care allowance, on the child-related budget. They are not on the streets and are used under strict conditions. It is logical, however, that if a society makes scarce social services available to people with a small wallet, then you check whether people have small wallets. I don't find anything weird about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u12	What good is the flow of this cabinet now? What good is it for people with a little bit better income to be bullied out of their social housing if the cabinet puts an asylum-seekers' family into it almost immediately? What good is that gonna do us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u13	The fact that the large but always limited stock of social housing should be allocated to low-income people is a demand that is completely separate from the housing needs of status holders. Even if there were no status holders, a starter on the housing market in an area with a shortage of social housing, especially in large cities, should be able to find a social housing within a reasonable time. Because in the Netherlands more than half a million social rental homes are inhabited by people who now have a good income, there is an unnecessary congestion. That would be the case if there were no status holders. As Mr Madlener knows, the Cabinet for Statusholders has set up a separate arrangement to quickly create sober, shared housing. The subsidy scheme has just started. The first signs are that it is being used intensively. We will ensure that extra supplies are added. Again, even if there were no influx of status holders, the incentives for flow would be of great importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u14	I'll tell you what it's gonna do for us: no blow at all! The cabinet keeps the boundaries open and is busy chasing tenants with a little bit more income than €36.000 family income out of their homes and then immediately putting in status holders who are often in crime or dependent on a benefit.We all know it and the living environment deteriorates. That's what the Cabinet does. What do the Dutch who do their best to make something of their lives to this cabinet? Nothing! They get fines to get out of their homes and then that same house is given cheaply to an asylum seeker. That is the true nature of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr President, I have not heard a new question. Mr Bashir has asked me a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u16	Shall we go first to Mr De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u17	I would have liked to ask Mr Bashir, but perhaps the Minister can confirm it to me. Mr Bashir says that an income test is unlawful, but I think the Minister is actually saying that an income test is also necessary for the SP amendment. If so, is there a need for an income test for the rent payment and appropriate allocation? The latter will reduce the rent for a lot of people, something the SP also very much wants. Can I see that Mr Bashir is fighting things he wants to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr De Vries illustrated with other examples that an income test is also needed to carry out the SP's requirements for the rental market. If you do not want to do so via the Tax Office, you only have the alternative that the tenants themselves go to the landlord every year with their tax return. That seems to me to be a much less desirable situation. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bashir asked me not to allow the income-dependent rent increase to continue in 2016. I find that undesirable, because I think it is a good instrument. Nor is it the case that high-income people are forced to leave their homes. They are asked to pay the rent they can pay with their income. Indeed, that will be reason for a number of people to look for a home elsewhere. As a result, social housing is then released for people who really need these homes. Mr Bashir indicated that the introduction of the income-dependent rent increase would no longer be possible this year. He pointed out that the income portals of the Tax Administration were open on 15 March. As Mr Bashir knows, the law is already in the First Chamber and that law also contains the repair of the passage on the provision of income data by the Tax Administration. It is, of course, up to the First Chamber to decide at what point she is dealing with that law, but there is already a written questioning going on. My commitment is to get the law dealt with as soon as possible, if possible in the course of March, also in the Upper Chamber. If a majority is found there, it is therefore possible to provide income to landlords in 2016 and thus also to apply the income-dependent rent increase. Another advantage of this is that the new law, the law, stipulates that the proceeds of the income-dependent rent increase must be used for investments in the social rental stock. That is new, but from the point of view of the SP this must certainly be a profit, because I know that Mr Bashir believes it is very important that we invest in social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u19	I'd like to finish up so we can get back to mining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u20	Investing is certainly good, but use the landlord's tax. I asked the minister about the date. He says the bill is in the First Chamber, but I understand that this bill will not pass the First Chamber until mid-April at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u21	Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u22	This means that there is no legal basis for these income-dependent rent increases before 15 March. My question to the Minister is therefore what his timeline is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u23	Clear, clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u24	How does the Minister see it? Housing corporations must inform the tenants in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u25	The only date that is hard at the moment is March 8, because then the contribution of the First Chamber must be provided for the round of questions. The House of Representatives knows that my officials are able to reply quickly and thoroughly and I see no reason why the law should not be dealt with until April.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u26	All right, so far. Is there a need for a second term? Mr Bashir has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u27	But the bill still has to be published in the Official Journal. It's gonna take a while. It also takes a while before it is a law and therefore my question remains what the timeline is for the income-dependent rent increase. We've already had a very sloppy procedure and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u28	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u29	...that's why the Supreme Court has also said it was all illegal. And now we have another procedure that we don't know how it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u30	I am, of course, grateful to Mr Bashir for his concern about publishing in the Official Journal and the signature of the King. However, once the date of entry has been fixed on 8 March, there is no reason to believe that this law cannot be dealt with in good time in March, I repeat. My full commitment is also focused on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. So far, I understand. I thank the participants. No, I see that Mr Bashir wishes to table another motion. Then he'll have to come forward and pronounce it. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. I'm in no hurry. It is a legislative proposal, and we simply need to treat it properly. I regret that the spokesmen of the coalition parties remain seated, because I would have liked to ask them questions. Apparently, that's not possible. I do not, in fact, hear any responsibility for what has happened in recent years. The government has unlawfully provided income data for 1.9 million people through the Tax Office, and we do not hear at all how the Minister and the Cabinet are going to meet these people. I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the income data of 1.9 million tenants have been accessed by landlords through the Tax Office;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Council of State that there is no legal basis for income-dependent rent increases;]] [[Whereas, for the announcement of a new income-dependent rent increase as of 1 July 2016, it is impossible to establish a legal basis for access by landlords to tenants' income data;]] [[Calls on the Government to cease the tax administration's preparatory actions for access to income data and to refrain from income-dependent rent increases in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34374-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u33	Finally, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of tenants have had an income-dependent rent increase in the last three years;]] [[noting that the Council of State considered that there was no legal basis for the income-dependent rent increases;]] [[calls on the Government to accommodate tenants unlawfully affected by the income-dependent rent increase with a rent reduction and to cover them from the landlord levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34374-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. In the first motion, tabled by Mr Bashir, which was rejected by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9, is requested to cease preparations for the income-dependent rent increase for 2016. As I explained in the debate just now, the instrument of the income-dependent rent increase is still a good means of making people on good incomes pay real rents and creating incentives to flow. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. In the second motion by Mr Bashir, which was tabled in part No. 10, a rent reduction is requested for people who have had an income-dependent rent increase in recent years. For the same reason as I indicated in the first motion, I think the instrument of the income-dependent rent increase is right. As far as I am concerned, the technical imperfection pointed out by the Council of State does not reduce the accuracy of the instrument. For this reason, I choose to repair the technical imperfection and I do not think it is logical to give compensation, as this motion calls for. Moreover, I have to point out once again that there is a contradiction between the amendment tabled earlier by Mr Bashir, which supports an income-dependent increase in rents, and the wish expressed in this motion. On balance, I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you. So much for this debate. We shall vote tomorrow on both Mr Bashir's motions and the legislative proposal. I repeat that this will be tomorrow. I thank the spokesmen for their specialist input and thank the Minister for his presence.
