ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Since 2010, Bonaire has been part of the Netherlands and education at Bonaire has become a national task. We have already had a lot of discussions with Secretary of State Dekker on the quality of secondary education at Bonaire. The SGB on Bonaire was badly run and there are still questions about how well it's going. However, we never had so many questions about the MBO. The educational inspection reports also mention only one sentence about the quality of the MBO and above all that it is better than the quality of the other training courses. In March 2015, it is once stated in a sub-criteria that the quality of the examinations is insufficient. As a thunderbolt came the message that the parents and the students were informed last Friday that the MBO on Bonaire should no longer take exams. For all MBO training courses, no more exams are allowed and no more diplomas should therefore be awarded. The letter in which it is written actually raises more questions than it answers. The letter doesn't say why it is. What requirements doesn't the school meet? What is to be done so that these exams can be taken again? The question is also why parents and students are only now informed by this letter and not before. Why didn't the Ministry or the inspection say earlier that it was going in the wrong direction with the exams of the MBO courses and that, if it were to continue like this, there would be no more exams at some point? The most important question is, of course, when has this situation been resolved? When can the students take their exams again? A study delay of a week or a few weeks is perhaps still to be seen. However, it will be a very different story if students will not be able to come to the Netherlands next year for further education and they cannot complete their education and cannot get to work. So when is this gonna be resolved? The question is also whether there are training courses that do not have accreditation. In the media it is stated that there are students who do training courses that they do not know are not accredited. What effect does that have on students? It has also been said that diplomas would be withdrawn. That should not be the case in our view, because the fault lies not with the pupils but with the school. In what way will that problem be solved? My final question is whether this problem also applies to FORMA, the school for adult education at Bonaire, which is said to be affected by this stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Laar pointed out, problems have previously been identified in the SGB. The Chamber has already received a letter from the Secretary of State on this matter. The SGB provides secondary education and mbo. At first it seemed that the problems were concentrated, also because of the size, in secondary education. Since we have acted and given clues and a new governance has come that since September last. However, we have found that there are also problems with the MBO. The nature, relative extent and severity of these problems have only recently become very visible. Since then, the inspection has found that it is no longer justified to issue diplomas. That is very sad, first and foremost for the students. At the same time, the value of a diploma must always be beyond any doubt. So something had to happen. Here's what happened. A letter has been sent to the parents, as Mr Van Laar says. This letter was sent by the principal of the school. I'm not talking about the writing and wording of a director. I note, however, that few solutions have been presented. That's too bad, because that could have reassured parents and students. Then what are these solutions? There's no graduation. You can't. However, students who have already received a diploma may be given the opportunity to eliminate deficiencies. These students will also be invited in the very near future. What needs to be done further is that a new plan, a work plan, must be made. That plan will be reviewed by the inspection this week. If that's enough, the SGB can take exams again from next week. If that is not enough, I expect it to be in order this spring. I also expect management and board students to be able to clarify that they can take their exams this spring. I also expect management and board graduates to be informed about catching up this week. FORMA, the foundation providing adult education and entrance training on Bonaire, will be used to improve the examination of MBO training at the SGB. At the same time, this means that it is wrongly assumed that FORMA would not have her affairs in order. The non-accredited training courses are in fact training courses for which no licence was issued. These include photography. The institution is therefore not authorised to offer these training courses. That is what we found out last year, and it was addressed in the December letter of inspection. This too will have to be addressed by the SGB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	It is good to hear that the problems can be tackled and that this should also lead to a rapid solution. However, the question is why this has not happened before behind the scenes. Why suspend all exams now when they could start again next week? Would it not have been better if the SGB had not succeeded in drawing up a good work plan, to suspend the exams? Perhaps that would have been a less radical way of dealing with this problem. We are pleased to hear that FORMA is being used for these improvements and is not affected by these problems either. We hope with the Minister that all students can take the exams in the spring. If you went to a non-accredited institution like that and you have such a diploma in your pocket, what's that worth? Can students with this diploma, for example, pass to the HBO? Are they able to work on the labour market, even in the European Netherlands? Or are there major problems to be expected for these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	On the first point: yes, of course it would have been desirable, particularly in the interests of students and their parents, to inform them at once about everything, not only about the problems but also about the steps that can be taken to find a solution. But again, I'm not talking about the wording of the letters sent by a director. I know that the inspection said: "Wait a minute, then we can also propose a number of solutions." The board didn't do that. Following the steps already taken last year with a completely new board, a new director will also be appointed on 1 April. I hope that all this will help to improve the situation. The training courses which do not have a licence were also mentioned last year. I need to find out more precisely what training is involved and what its consequences are. In any case, I think it is right to give a letter to the Chamber shortly in which I can also give the state of play about today's actions, the rest of the week and perhaps the next few weeks, if more work is to be done before we can take exams again. I will also take this problem into account, of the training courses that have a licence and their possible impact on students and the way in which they are accurately informed. I'd be happy to admit that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thanks for that letter. I would like to receive it so soon after approving or not approving the work plan, so that parents and teachers can see what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	Of course.
