ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'm sure we all had a glass of water or a cup of mint tea this afternoon. Water is the essence of life; no one can live without it. Today, GroenLinks advocates giving water absolute priority in everything we do with our soil, our subsurface and our deep subsurface. In the Netherlands at the moment good water comes out of the tap in all houses, but for some of these houses the water company already has to get the water from Germany because of pollution in the Netherlands itself. Back in the day, we were sucking trash into the canal, then we threw it on a dump, then the sewer went right into the rivers and the sea. That's what we all stopped doing, because it gave disease and polluted water. However, we continue to dump waste in our soil. There are plans for COdie to enter the soil, nuclear waste should enter the soil, fly ash from waste incineration plants goes into the soil and toxic waste water from mining as well. GroenLinks advocates giving the precautionary principle a prominent role in our subsurface and giving water absolute priority. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks? The Structure Vision Underground must have the water supply of today, but also for our great-grandchildren, clear on one. Water is there for people, agriculture and our nature. The sustainable use of the subsurface should, as far as we are concerned, be on two levels. At the time, I had a commitment from Minister Verhagen that this would be incorporated into the Structure Vision Underground. I would like this Minister to confirm that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u2	What Mrs Van Tongeren says is true, of course. In fact, we are 80% water ourselves. But I have a question. In 2006 there is an m.e.r. I would like to make a few comments on the way in which this waste water is being treated. It was then concluded that the most environmentally friendly method was to inject it into the soil in this way. If that is the most environmentally friendly way, it seems to me that we should do so. Does Mrs Van Tongeren have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u3	An m.e.r. is an environmental impact assessment, I say for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u4	If you want to inject toxic waste water into the soil, you need an incredible amount of energy. This environmental impact assessment assumes that fossil energy is used for this purpose. As we all know, fossil energy produces an enormous amount of pollution. It's counted how much coal flow you're gonna need to get all that water that's gonna have to be put under the ground. If you count all that, it is indeed better to inject it untreated into the soil, under the assumption that it stays there forever. So there are two assumptions. The first assumption is that that water never goes anywhere else. We've all been to work together in America. You can see that the water there is hugely polluted. The cost of this is not shown in our Dutch m.e.r. The second assumption involves counting on the dirtiest kind of current you can have. I would very much like us to have a new m.e.r. to be executed. We didn't know this in 2006. I had never heard of wastewater injection in the Netherlands. We did not know these results from America either in the Netherlands. I think that we did not know that at the time, but we are now ten years away. So I want a new m.e.r. looking at the kind of power used for that. When we calculate with clean power, it is no longer wise to do this. We could also look at our neighbour Germany. That is where the requirement is imposed on all the rest of the industry, namely that it should be purified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u5	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u6	I must continue my speech, I understand from your "clear', Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u7	If that's what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'd love to. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, water stands on one and sustainable use of the subsurface on two. Minister Verhagen made a commitment to me on this at the time. I would like this Minister to confirm that we are going to see this for the current subsoil. I have a concept plan-m.e.r. Seen underneath. I'm very surprised at that. In three of the four scenarios very large parts of the Netherlands are reserved for shale gas. How does that combine with the previous Minister's previous commitments? And how does that combine with a responsibility for decent water? After all, abroad shows that clean water and shale gas extraction is an unfortunate combination. It also makes plan-m.e.r. In no way is it clear where all that water should come from for shale gas extraction. The plan-m.e.r. makes it clear where that toxic waste water is going, namely the province of Groningen. As if Groningen is not already suffering enough from mining, the proposal is that all that toxic waste water goes underground there. I also wonder where the space reserve for nuclear waste is, because we have agreed on all sides that this should also be done in our subsurface. Last year, the NAM stopped the wastewater injection in Overijssel after a farmer reported that he had a marshy field that smelled very chemical. Until then, we were always sedated by the SodM and the NAM. They indicated that they had such monitoring that they would know immediately, if there was any pressure difference or leakage. This level of soothing is still there. They say they'd notice by now. I would like to hear from the Minister how we can know that the NAM and the SodM now know that something is leaking somewhere. It is always said that there has not been any earthquake during wastewater injection. If we say that this was indeed the case in Friesland, it is said: no, there are no earthquakes in fracking and waste water injection. If you ask through, it turns out there haven't been any geophones that can measure earthquakes. My next question to the Minister is whether we are in all the places where we have toxic waste water in sprayed geophones, so that we can also measure lighter earthquakes. Does the Minister not agree with GroenLinks that long-term use of heat is preferable to the removal of fossil fuels for short-term use? I have another question on the subject of water. In Overijssel, Vitens is busy looking for new water locations, because a lot of sites are losing weight due to the fact that toxic waste water is being sprayed underground in Overijssel. That's one of the reasons. Can the Minister tell me how long it is in his vision before somewhere really stands for a new water pump station for drinking water needs? The water companies tell me this will take at least 20 years. That is a very long period, so that too must really be taken into account in these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u9	Of course, it would be foolish if we were to introduce toxic waste water into the Groningen field, just as the situation seems to be somewhat stabilised there. I have also read those messages on the Internet and in the newspapers, but I have not found anywhere in the underlying documents where that plan is actually expressed in that way. I would like to hear from Mrs Van Tongeren where this is, because then I can read it. I believe that the Minister will also respond to this in his reply. I really couldn't find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u10	The province of Overijssel has responded to it. There's a draft plan for the m.e.r. In orbit. If that thing is going to be effective, according to the province of Overijssel, views can be submitted until June 2016 and so there is apparently nothing going on. If Mr Vos is looking for the document himself, he can find it on the website of RTV Oost and I think on other websites as well. In that piece you see four different cards with a legend. You can see that in shale gas extraction there is also a tan for wastewater and that is on the Groningen field. So the idea is indeed to use the field, once the army is in place, to store toxic waste water. That's some three of the four scenarios in the elaboration of the plan for the m.e.r. Show me. I think that is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u11	If that is the case, I can assure Mrs Van Tongeren that she will find the Labour Party by her side to ensure that this scenario is not implemented. I have also studied the reports, but I have not been able to read them back as clearly as Mrs Van Tongeren puts it. I am curious to hear what the Minister is going to say, but I can say that we will not allow toxic waste water to be injected into the Groningen field. That is what we agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u12	I am very happy to hear that the PvdA and GroenLinks are pulling up together to ensure that no toxic waste water will be injected into the Groningen field. Perhaps the Minister can shed some light on this. Maybe he can do the plan for the m.e.r. I'm gonna have to make some adjustments before it goes into the public sector. I had already asked whether the Minister also thinks that the long-term use of heat from the subsurface is preferable to the short-term removal of shale gas for a number of years. I've heard a rumor here and there. If you want to put a geothermal drilling somewhere, it is a condition that you first have to make it suitable for shale gas. Is that right? Or is that a rumor that's not based on anything? The effects of extracting anything and everything from the soil can be large: earthquakes, soil decline and soil and water pollution. I assume that the CDA will discuss the decline in the soil in Limburg due to coal mining. We went to work there together. At the suggestion of the government, the Wadden Sea was given the title of World Heritage. However, the bottom of the Wadden Sea also falls faster than the models indicated in advance. Nevertheless, the Minister does not exclude gas and salt extraction in the Wadden Sea near Terschelling. Why is that? Millions of litres of diesel are also brought into the Wadden Sea in the places where there is salt extraction. That's the goal of sealing those spots at the top. In technical terms, this is called "sealing with a higher specific weight than water." The oil continues to float there in principle. However, I would like to know from the Minister whether there is a contingency plan, in case this diesel still reaches the World Heritage Site. AkzoNobel must try to keep unstable salt caverns whole. The company wants to do that with fly ash, a pretty toxic stuff. Can the Minister indicate the risks involved? Can we get a little more clarity on those salt caverns? In Germany there are sinkholes, because such a salt cavern collapsed. Can we ever get the fly ash out again? The same applies to our strategic oil. It is currently stored in salt caverns, because it saves a few pennies. Why do we not do this in the safest way for people and the environment, so above ground? I have a few more questions about fracking. As a result of fracking there was a major earthquake in Canada of 2.6 on the Richter scale. In the Netherlands it has always been said that this can only produce small earth finches. Is this a matter of moving insight? Finally, can the Minister explain how, according to him, the Structure Vision Underground, the Mining Act and the Environment Act together ensure that we have a minimum standard in terms of public health, a clean environment and sufficient water in the Netherlands, for now and in the distant future? How can we ensure that, in these three pieces of legislation, sustainable use and renewable energy together are given more than enough space?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order first. Frank Wassenberg is gonna do this debate, but he's in another meeting right now. He will be coming to the plenary room shortly, but I have the honour to make the contribution on behalf of the Party for Animals. The 21st century must become the century of sun, wind and hydropower and of "renewable." Then why are we still talking about future mining activities? Instead of working seriously on green energy, this cabinet continues to focus on fossil economy. Mining: how old-fashioned that is, and how dangerous. It is dangerous for the climate, dangerous for nature and dangerous for humans and animals. Under Groningen, the gas fields are pumped so quickly that people are constantly living in fear or their homes are still standing. For years, the risks have been downplayed. For years, people have been burdened with damage, which they only get paid after cumbersome and dissuasive procedures. In Groningen much more is still pumped up than is justified. Reduction of gas production in Loppersum leads to additional gas production at the edges of the Groningenveld, west of the city of Groningen and towards Drenthe and Friesland. The people there now fear the fate that struck the Loppersummers before. And in Twente, the NAM exploits empty gas wells for the storage of toxic waste water, not hindered by any knowledge about the consequences for the environment and public health. The people there say: we fit to be the drain of industry again. That's right. The Minister not only abandons the Groningen, but also the Twentens. The petition against injection of wastewater into their soil was signed by 30,000 people. Is it true that the Minister refused to accept these signatures? Why would that be? Under the municipality of Bergen an empty gas field is used for the storage of Russian gas, to later sell it again with profit to the British. Whether pumping this gas can lead to earthquakes has never been seriously investigated. Doesn't seem to matter. The municipality has been silenced by the government because gas storage has been brought under the very undemocratic Crisis and Recovery Act. So there's hardly anything legally you can do about it. The inhabitants of Woerden fear, also rightly, new gas drilling, just 100 meters from their homes. The Minister's fossil policy destroys more than you like. Is the Minister prepared to allow the Woerdenen to rest, and is he therefore prepared to say now that he will not give a decision of consent? I'm considering tabling a motion on this point. I would now like to comment on the Minister's leaked plans to break open the stone floor layers of the Netherlands after 2020 to extract shale gas, resulting in a view on thousands of drilling towers in our country. The concept of environmental impact assessment seen by RTV Oost shows that the government wants to focus on shale gas in full after 2020. It appears that even the safety of our drinking water is at stake. Drinking water companies are very concerned. During the VAO Energy, the Minister tried to reassure the Chamber just now by saying that winning shale gas depends on our commitment to energy saving and renewable energy. Unfortunately, the fact that this cabinet is not making enough efforts to do so leads to the conclusion that the Minister is moving towards shale gas extraction rather than preventing it. If the Minister wants an independent, sustainable energy supply and energy efficiency, he will have to let go of fossil thinking. We know that, despite the moratorium on shale gas, the government is already creating room for so-called 'test drilling for scientific purposes'. I couldn't help thinking about what Japan does to whales. Whale hunting is also a moratorium, but one still kills whales under the guise of scientific research. Not only does the Minister want to exhaust the supplies under land, but also the gas and salt fields under the sea need to be emptied as quickly as possible in this cabinet. Our world heritage, the Wadden Sea, is threatened by new applications for gas drilling. Through our motion, the Chamber has clearly said no to gas drilling on Terschelling. The Minister has ruled out short-term drilling, but in the longer term uncertainty remains. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to implement the wishes of the Chamber and put an end to the uncertainty for all the people on Terschelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u14	We were the first to sign this motion on gas extraction at Terschelling. So you will find me on your side and we will just maintain that, but I would like to comment on the story you just told us. I very much agree with you when you say that we need to get rid of fossil energy and move towards a more sustainable future. I actually agree with you when you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u15	You agree with Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u16	... that you think that this cabinet might occasionally be allowed to take a more assertive line in that. But the Minister says that we need to generate this 84% energy and get it from somewhere. Then I wonder where you'd like to get it from. That seems to me to be a legitimate question if you say that we should switch completely to sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u17	How is it possible that we still choose energy-slurping air scrubbers in the bio-industry? They cost an enormous amount of energy. How is it possible that we are going to encourage fertilisers, who also cost an enormous amount of energy, with millions of euros of subsidy? How is it possible that we still do not have energy-neutral homes and that we have not yet started solar fields? For example, solar panels can be placed around Schiphol, making Schiphol energy neutral. We can cover almost all the roofs of the Netherlands with solar panels, but we don't. And why not? Because we leave it to the market, to the voluntary. That is a very wrong way of doing things. Liberty is no longer an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u18	I would ask Mr Vos to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u19	I said, "President, here..." But the microphone wasn't on yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u20	I was talking about your previous contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u21	Okay. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u22	We're gonna practice it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr President, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mrs Mulder did it, too, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr President, you are getting the momentum out of the story, because Mrs Thieme's facts are in no way accurate. The number of solar panels doubled this year in the Netherlands, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yeah, if you don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u27	The amount of installed wind increased by 20% compared to last year. That is the result of the policy of this cabinet. If you say this is not enough, I agree with you. But if you say nothing happens, I say that is absolutely not true. In fact, with great leaps forward, we are investing in renewable energy. It also saves 1.5% of energy per year. If you're saying there's some extra work to be done with those air drains in livestock farming, fine, then we can look at that. But of course that is not going to replace the 84% fossil energy that we still need in 2023 with all the efforts we are making today. I would ask for a little more realism: how are you going to provide this 84% energy in 2023? The Minister certainly had a point there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u28	You don't mean me, but perhaps you mean Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u29	Through the President, I would ask you to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u30	No, because you're speaking to the chairman. If you say so, you're talking to me. I understand what you mean: the question has been put to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u31	Yeah, I got it, too. With these urgent climate problems, idealism is the new realism, I would like to say to the PvdA. I therefore hope that Mr Vos, if he is serious that there should be a little more ambition, will wholeheartedly support the motion I have just tabled in order not to take 2020 as a time when all new buildings should be energy neutral, but just 2018. Then Mr Vos shows that it is not just his words, but also the actions that show that much more needs to be done for an energy-neutral and sustainable Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u32	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u33	A point of order is a point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u34	I would like to take a lesson with you outside this Chamber in speaking via the President, but I am very sorry that a number of facts are being debated here that are not correct. I'm trying to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u35	A very brief response from Mrs Thieme to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u36	The way in which you think you are correcting me is driving the whole thing out of the debate. I regret that, because it is an important debate on important points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Thieme has answered this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u38	If you assume nothing, it seems to double very quickly. That is just like the discussion with the fisheries sector. If you have only ten provisions left, and the next year you have twenty, you say very quickly: look, it's doubled. While you still talk about a species threatened with extinction. Of course, that's how it is with energy. You do think you're doing well by getting a little more subsidy for solar panels, but in the end it's peanuts. Look at how much more we need. We need nine times more solar panels in the world if we are to achieve the climate targets. We have a lot of work to do. Then I would like to go to the bottom descent through gas and salt extraction that takes place in the area around Wijnaldum. It's going much faster than it's expected so far. Can the Minister confirm that? What consequences does that have? What conclusions does the Minister draw from this? The Minister should stop issuing new licences and at least stop extending existing licences. Does he agree with me? I'm considering a motion on that point. Last summer, when the Minister was asked about the possibility of reducing gas extraction in Groningen, his answer was clear: to get more gas out of the North Sea. We can now request a debate on the loss of species due to the release of oil and chemicals, discharges of production water and collision risks and leakage risks due to the presence of gas pipes. The bizarre thing is that the exploitation of these gas fields at sea is so expensive that this VVD minister wants to persuade companies with subsidies to start winning gas there. Instead of investing in sustainable alternatives and energy-saving measures, the cabinet is subsidising the fossil industry. How much has the incentive scheme cost the taxpayer exactly since 2010? Will the Minister renew that arrangement by the end of this year? I am also considering a motion on this. We will be discussing the Mining Act in detail in the coming weeks. The House wants to adopt a Mining Act in which people, the environment and safety are better protected and also better protected. The Minister has so far shown little recognition of this wish for a Chamber. He doesn't seem to want everything to be the same. Is that the political legacy that the Minister is going to leave behind: stick to the old? So far he seems really deaf and blind to all the warnings coming from the Security Research Council, to the justified concerns and fears and resistance of the people from the areas where gas drilling takes place or threatens to take place. Also the ruling of the judge in the climate case, that the Netherlands is doing far too little to protect its inhabitants from climate change, is not heard by the cabinet nor by this minister. In fact, no additional measures have yet been announced. The government has still not begun to execute the verdict. In fact, the government has appealed against the judgment and is now delaying that trial by reporting half a day before the deadline for submitting the documents that the State needs another two months. Can the Minister tell me why the documents are not handed over to the court in time? The 21st century must become the century of solar, wind and hydropower. These inexhaustible energy sources provide as much energy every hour as the whole world uses in one year. Mining and fossil energy are so passing. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the word'mining' calls mainly for associations with the industrial revolution, with coal and lignite extraction and with comels in South Limburg. In short, mining is part of the economy of the last century. However, in 2016 mining has not disappeared from our economy. In fact, gas is extracted in Groningen and in the Wadden region. In Woerden there are plans to tap a gas field in a residential area. In Overijssel wastewater is injected into the soil and in Saaksum and elsewhere the NAM wants to frack: spraying chemicals in the soil to produce the last scraps of gas. According to the Minister, we may be winning shale gas in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u40	Fortunately a good message for Saaksum: there is no fracking. The NAM has decided not to do so because of the sum of activities there. For the fact that the NAM has attracted itself, the company may deserve a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u41	According to my information, there was a delay, but if delay has now been postponed, I am very pleased with it. That doesn't change the fact that there are still frackings in other places. We'd rather not see that happen at all. How much longer do we hold on to the old fossil economy? How long do we accept the damage to the safety and health of citizens affected by earthquakes, soil degradation and soil and air pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u42	I would like to ask Mrs Dik whether she no longer trusts the Inspector-General of State Monitoring of Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u43	I find it annoying to talk about people in the debate. State supervision of the Mines as an institute is an independent institution that advises the government and us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u44	It's about the function of Inspector General, not the person. The institute SodM has just published a report investigating the frequency of fracking in conventional gas in the Netherlands over the last 60 years and the impact that this has had. It appears to have taken place between 300 and 350 times and there appears to have been no leakage and no impact on the population that could be negatively assessed in any way. Why does Mrs Dik make the statement that we should not frack and how does that statement relate to the function of Inspector General, which we have set up to conduct these kinds of investigations and make these considerations for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u45	I have looked at the conclusions of that report and read that there have been no negative effects on the environment on the basis of facts so far and as far as we can see. Those are a few disclaimers in the conclusion I certainly care about. However, it is nice to read that there have probably been no negative effects so far. My group is concerned that this report is going to be the basis for allowing fracking to continue in the Netherlands and who knows how to provide ample space for shale gas extraction in the near future. I wouldn't want that. I can't wait to see what the PvdA's got in there. We'll find out from the PvdA. The risk of fracking damage is small, but if there is damage, it is large-scale and irreversible. I'm very curious about the PvdA's vision. I'm going on. How long do we accept the damage to houses in Groningen? Why are citizens still seen as a final part of the decision-making process? Have we not long gone beyond the limits of the permissible? Moreover, the climate agreement has just been concluded. If we want a temperature increase of up to 1.5 °C to 2 °C, we must leave fossil resources in the ground as much as possible. That is also economically sensible. Investors are increasingly withdrawing from fossil investment. Our public investors, the pension funds, should also do so much more urgently. Is that how the Minister sees it? Soon we will deal with the new Mining Act. It is good that we are going to anchor the recommendations of the Safety Research Council in the law. There will be more control for the provincial government, but municipalities, water boards and drinking water companies will not be given direct advisory rights. It has to be different, says the Christian Union. The reversal of the burden of proof should also apply to the whole of the Netherlands and not just to the contours in Groningen. It is not economic reasons but the security of citizens that is most important. However, the Mining Act and the Environmental Act continue to focus on economic principles. The whole process has been attributed to licensing and nature and safety are at most marginal. Should we not do this quite differently, especially after the climate agreement? The Christian Union advocates a "no, unless" approach to fossil energy production. The switch to a clean economy becomes the starting point, not the licence application by a company. That is the situation in the Mining Act. If citizens are affected by mining activities, we should no longer allow them. Vulnerable areas with valuable nature, such as the Wadden region, and drinking water areas should be legally excluded in advance. Directly prohibit fracking and shale gas extraction and leave the stocks in the ground as much as possible. Does the Minister also intend to reduce the extraction of fossil fuels in the short term? The Christian Union also calls for legal priority to be given to sustainable subsoiling. Geothermals must always be used for fossil energy extraction. Wind energy at sea must always take precedence over oil or gas extraction in the seabed. Does the Minister also intend to legally anchor this? Does he want to further reduce the gas roundabout by reducing gas demand? I've just tabled a motion on it. The energy report says we're net exporter of gas until 2029, but at whose expense? The people in Groningen, Drenthe and Woerden? And why is there no plan ready to bring gas extraction in Groningen as soon as possible to 12 billion cubic metres per year and lower? I would like to mention a number of locations in the Netherlands where there are legitimate concerns about mining activities. In Woerden there are plans to win gas under a residential area with 10,000 inhabitants. There is great uncertainty about the consequences, for example for the weak peat soil in the Green Heart. What's the risk of soil decline worth to us? There will be drilling installations close to homes, but the Minister reports that the decline in housing value is not part of the extraction plan. Where is the citizen's interest in this whole story? Why is a company's permit application more important? The Christian Union calls on the Minister not to start this. The National Coordinator Groningen will also interfere with the damage cases in the province of Drenthe, in particular the gas storage in Langelo near Norg. Until recently, the link with gas extraction was denied, but I hope that mining damage will simply be recognised and compensated. I also ask about the felt quakes at Assen and Blijham. Does this also mean that mining damage is taken seriously? I proposed setting up a damages agreement, just like Bergermeer. Does the Minister agree with this? In Overijssel, the NAM is in the process of injecting wastewater into the soil. Drinking water company Vitens advises against this. Why is NAM at risk of polluting drinking water? Why didn't this come up in the environmental impact assessment? The Christian Union does not want polluted water in our soil. The NAM doesn't frack at Saaksum. I understand now that it is not only a delay, but also a setback, and that is good to hear. Why, however, do we allow fracking in other places? Is the Minister prepared to ban substances for which the REACH assessment has not yet been completed for fracking the deep subsurface?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u46	The Christian Union spokesman says that mining damage must always be compensated. I share that and the PVV shares that; let that be clear. But what does the case want? As a result of our visit to mining damage areas in Limburg, the province where I live, I have tabled three motions. But none of them have been supported by the Christian Union. I think that's really weird. What Mrs Dik is doing now is just for the stage. The CDA has supported these motions and has therefore shown that they have the right to speak. Why does Mrs Dik now say that she is in favour of compensating for mining damage, but does she fail to do so when we come to a point and we need to vote? For ten years, moreover, I have noticed that the Christian Union does not give at home at such times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u47	I don't know those motions. I am pleased to note that we agree on the principle that mining damage should be compensated. I believe that this has been agreed by law, but we still need to improve implementation. I'd be happy to look up those motions. If I have enough time, I'll come back to it in second term. If not, I'll do it in conversation afterwards. At the moment, I really cannot recall exactly the wording of the motions or the reasons why we could not support them, but I am sure there is a good reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u48	As far as the resolutions are concerned, they concern the motion for a resolution, Nos 32849 and 32849. 23, 24 and 25. The Christian Union will then know which motions are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u49	I see Mrs Dik-Faber wrote along.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u50	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'm sure her associate did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u52	We'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr President, there is nodding in the back of the Chamber. There are several plans ready to extract oil and gas in the Wadden Sea. Terschelling is the best known example. However, the Christian Union wants to spare the vulnerable Wadden region. I therefore call on the Minister not to engage in gas extraction at Terschelling. In Friesland, bottom descent takes place through a combination of gas and salt extraction. The result: everyone points to each other as ordinary citizens and entrepreneurs claim compensation. Will the Minister press for a solution for these citizens, for example a one-stop shop for claims? For the Noordoostpolder and Boxtel the extraction of shale gas is still not excluded. The winning of shale gas in, among others, Overijssel, South Holland and Zeeland after 2020 is simply kept open in the internal plans at the Ministry. Emeritus professor Theo Olsthoorn says it strikingly: "Scalegas winning may bring us six years of benefits, but it seems to have been forgotten that in 300 years we will still be completely dependent on drinking water." So stop all preparations for shale gas extraction, I say to the Minister. People in the province of Groningen have not asked for damage, insecurity and loss of value to their homes. Their material and intangible damage must therefore be generously compensated. The opposite has happened. The increase in value, which the Court would like to continue, was closed on 1 February. Will the Minister soon open these up again? We have recently received a number of commitments from the Minister. Thus the National Coordinator would quickly take over the complex damage from the NAM. I can't wait to see what's going on here. We still get emails that there is opposition by the NAM, among others at monumental farms. However, I am counting on a generous attitude by the National Coordinator. What about buying out people with unsellable properties? We were given the example of an old lady who moved to a nursing home. The house is now available for sale for four years and has fallen enormously in value. The uninhabited house must also be counted in box 3. This means: less surcharges and more power load. I ask the Minister to come up quickly with solutions to these distressing cases. Finally. I started with the Mining Act, actually a law of the 20th century. I therefore hope that the Mining Act will soon become an archive document in the Centre for Parliamentary History.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for bringing together a lot of the debates that were on the list. That's very efficient. It is also convenient in terms of timing, because this debate is actually a kind of prelude to dealing with an amendment to the Mining Act, and that is all well and good. So thank you for that. It is also good that we can have this prelude, because the treatment of a law is quite soon to sit in the discussion of the legal text and amendments and so on. So it's good to take a little time for this. My group believes that, in recent years, we in the Netherlands have increasingly seen some sort of background fear among the citizens. That has to do with Groningen, but before things got out of hand in Groningen, we also had Barendrecht, where the question was whether or not we would store CO. There is fear among residents that they suffer damage to their property, or that their lives or their pets are at risk. That fear extends from Groningen, which we often talk about here, to Twente and the Achterhoek, to areas, in North Brabant and the Noordoostpolder, where there is salt extraction and even sand extraction and to areas where shale gas extraction was seen arriving. Furthermore, we have a number of places in this country where soil cleaning has to be carried out, where asbestos has to be disposed of. Recently I was in Goor, I don't think so far away from the Minister's residence. There is still a great deal of work to be done to solve the asbestos problems there. So this is happening all over the country. Limburg was also mentioned, Eygelshoven, the last street before you disappear into Germany. All the homes there actually vibrate with the nails that the mine shafts do there because at some point no water has been pumped away. So my question is: how do you deal with that? The fact is that there are concerns among many citizens. Experts, whether we, or the minister, can say, "People, don't worry because it's all right. I am referring, for example, to the fracking story, which has just been discussed in an interrupting debate. The SodM has said: fracking is safe "as far as known." But then you immediately come across that clause "as far as known" and you come to the question of whether we know what we don't know and how we offer the citizen confidence. Given the high population density in this country and the high pressure on the ground and the subsurface, can this still be achieved? Moreover, this pressure is only getting stronger. It is therefore good that we are now in the process of the Structural Vision Underground. I very much agree with the question with which Mrs Van Tongeren concluded her speech, how we can make the Environmental and New Mining Act, with the Structure Vision Underground as a kind of connecting framework, so that we can achieve the best results and continue in a way where we can get the population as much as possible. After all, we still have some time left to do with the extraction of all kinds of things. It seems like a hellish job, but there's also a lot of psychology from the subsurface, to get people involved in things that we thought were pretty normal for years, but which have been affecting people to an increasing extent in recent years. Just so we're clear, I'm gonna ask the Minister if it's all nimby. Is there any mention of nimby among the people of Terschelling, Oppenhuizen, Woudsend, Woerden and Eygelshoven, or do they have real problems in a small country with 17 million inhabitants? And in that small country we not only use every square meter of the surface, which always stands out when you land in the Netherlands and it isn't cloudy, but also makes the subsurface very competitive. Two weeks ago, we had a debate on this subject with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. What is the optimal scenario you should wish for in the framework of the Structure Vision Underground? After all, you are now going for an economic scenario or an ecological scenario. The word "drinking water" has often been mentioned, also in the debate with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. What should be at the top? Do you need to have a displacement sequence on the subsurface, where you really put drinking water at the top and therefore take the intake areas with you? This way you guarantee Vitens and all the vitenses of this country that the drinking water supply will be okay in the future. Or are you going for the extraction of shale gas, for example, which is now parked but not off the agenda? This may only yield something for about six to eight years, but drinking water is still needed in 300 years, and once polluted, it is always polluted. These are some questions from a perhaps higher level of abstraction than we normally have here, but we can do that today. I'm looking forward to an exit strategy on gas. That doesn't mean we have to stop tomorrow, but we do have to get to a moment in time that may well be 2050 on which we leave the fossil age behind. I would like the Minister to make it clear how he is going to reduce the gas from today to that moment. We still have about 600 billion cube and on an annual basis we win something like 80 billion. So you can figure out it'll be out in about eight years. We need to see that we're running out. Then you better be economical, now that the prices are so low, than you're going to try to throw the rest out at an increased rate. If the Minister would like to do so, you can at the same time reassure the people who live in a potential gas extraction area, for example in Woerden, where it is even under a residential area. That's very necessary. Do that, I'll tell the minister. Write down that exit strategy. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees small-field policy. That fits in with my greater demand for the exit strategy. If there is to be drilling in small fields, can the Minister promise the residents that there will be a reverse burden of proof, including for those areas, not just for Groningen? Will he also undertake that a zero measurement can be made of house quality, so that people do not get into trouble afterwards because it is unclear whether the damage was already there? What can he offer the residents in the area of compensation in case of damage? I just wanted to talk to you about Twente. How exactly did it go? I see a report from the NAM stating that it can all be safe, but I also see that Vitens has great concerns. I see that the NRC has again appealed to the Public Administration Act to review how State surveillance of the Mines advised the NAM. I read that, among other things, it has been recommended to delete the term "waste water" and replace it with "production water." Is that right? How useful would it be for an independent institution to give such advice? When I see that 30,000 citizens were here yesterday with a petition, I think: please let us be careful. What is the Minister going to do about Twente and wastewater? Isn't he going to take irreversible steps until all the investigation is complete? Is he still looking at alternatives to wastewater injection? Does he share the great concerns of the municipality of Tubbergen, the region of Twente and Vitens? The last few seconds of my speaking time are ticking away, so this is a good time to quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u55	It's a pleasure for you! We are now going to listen to Mr Graus of the Party for Freedom. In the meantime, let me tell you that after the first term, I'm going to suspend from the Chamber for a dinner break. After that, we are going to listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing my colleague Klever. I am delighted to be present today at a debate by this committee, because I used to be an energy spokesman. But now I'm here as a replacement. I may not be able to stay here all evening, but at least I am going to make the contribution on behalf of my party. The Party for Freedom stands for a reliable and affordable, but above all independent energy supply, supported by popular support, social support. Mining has always served as an engine for our economy. The reconstruction after the Second World War was driven by the Limburg coal mines, where my grandfather and many of my family worked, just like many people I still know. Some of them are still alive. I'm still in touch with those people, too. Limburg really got on the map. Often people still miss the camaraderie that was there at the time, and the mutual decency, which is now far to be desired everywhere. I'm always jealous of the camaraderie in the mines. The wrinkles, they called each other: boyfriends, buddies. The PVV therefore has nothing against mining and knows more than anyone how important it is for our economy and for employment. As I said earlier, it is also important for our energy independence. That is why the PVV, with the only other party the SP, fought against our energy companies being sold out and going into foreign hands. This is a primary need for life. This story can be used strategically against us one day. So that was a very stupid move. We're gonna find out. There will be a parliamentary inquiry about it. Then I'm one of the few people who doesn't have to sit there with a wet buttock. Due to the earthquake problem in Groningen, there is also a lot of things going on in Limburg. Concerns about mining activities have increased among the population. The unrest is also increased by the way the cabinet deals with the Groningers and now with the Limburgers. This cabinet chooses to keep people trapped in unsaleable, damaged houses. That can sometimes run in the barrels, even in Limburg. There's no way to do that. If you've taken so much money out of it as a state, can't you just tell those people to look at it now? That's not how it works! That's undesirable. In addition, people with more serious damage in particular must fight for years to be compensated for this damage. Why don't you go pay for that? I could have won a lot of trial if I had the courage and the money to deal with it. It costs a lot of money. This is not the way in which the PVV wants to deal with victims of mining damage, but unfortunately it is the practice of this cabinet policy. With this practice, it is logical that the population's resistance to new drilling is increasing in more and more locations. We share that and we support those people in it. We will also be there for them now and in the future. They fear the value of their homes, for their safety, which is very important to them and for the damage caused by mining activities. Nobody is waiting for Groningen or Limburg scenes. Therefore, as far as PVV is concerned, it is important to deal with mining activities differently, starting with clarity in advance about the impact of the activities on the living environment of the residents. Not everything is predictable, too. When the Germans shut down the pumps in 1994, we all could never suspect, even the Minister, that the rising mining water caused a lot of problems in the following years. Unfortunately, the limitation period has expired, but the problems have been caused by mining activities which the State has made a lot of money from. What is the situation with regard to the risks and the handling of damages, should there be unexpected damage? All this needs to be looked at in advance. It may also be possible to preset pots. Now in Limburg there is a million dollars from the minister and 1 million comes from the region, but what can you do with 2 million? How many reports are there now? It started with 50 and at some point it was 80. I don't know how many there are right now. Maybe there's over 100 of them. I would have liked to have heard that from the Minister. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this is current practice and whether otherwise it will simply be included in the new Mining Act? In addition to regular mining activities, there are also two activities which are particularly resistant, namely shale gas and waste water injection. Of course, the name "waste water injection" alone raises a lot of resistance, even at the PVV. Can the Minister explain the usefulness and necessity of this technique? Are there any alternatives that meet less resistance from the population? Can the Minister also outline the consequences for the allegedly 6,000 people working in the gas and oil cluster in South-East Drenthe if we were to ban waste water injections? We want to leave the church in the middle and know what's going to happen. As far as shale gas is concerned, the PVV already knows that it is not in favour of this in the Netherlands. We have already said this on several occasions. Even in the relatively sparsely populated Noordoostpolder, the image damage of shale gas extraction to agriculture and horticulture is potentially high. Even without incident or damage, shale gas extraction can be harmful to the export of agricultural and horticultural products. Does the Minister recognise these risks and still intend to investigate shale gas? Mining has brought much prosperity and employment to our country. I've already mentioned what I've been through myself, even from my family in the south. However, the downside of mining is becoming increasingly clear, especially thanks to the gas extraction in Groningen and what is happening now in Limburg. The subsidy-driven sustainable energy transition pursued by this cabinet will not change anything. Without innovations, we will always be dependent on coal and gas and everything we can get from our own subsurface. That increases our energy independence. We want, as I have just said, to leave the church in the middle. However, there should never and never be a danger to those living around. That's what's at the top of our list. I know the Minister can't always provide for everything, but if something happens, he will have to intervene. The PVV wants Groningen scenes to be avoided in future mining activities and to provide maximum clarity about the consequences and risks of damage handling. I have a few more questions about the visit of the Permanent Committee for Economic Affairs to South Limburg. This showed that not only the mining water is rising.. especially now that the Germans have also turned off the pumps... but also the mine gas is rising. If that mine gas ends up in a basement, there could be a very serious explosion if someone puts a lamp on there. This is not linked to the consequences of all kinds of weakening. Why should the investigation take two years? That is what the Minister talked about, but, of course, a long time has passed. How long before the investigation is complete? Why did that take years? After all, it is known that it is because of mine damage. Otherwise, the minister will have to consult the Germans. Every expert says that the uneven rise in soil caused by rising mining water leads to new mining damage in large parts of Limburg. There may be much more damage, while the limitation period of 30 years has indeed expired. Of course you can't. In Heerlen, an entire mall is failing. Fortunately, we've had a good guardian angel, but much worse things will happen. There will also be a parliamentary survey. How's it going? What is the Minister going to do in the short term to prevent the deaths from happening immediately? I've said it here many times. I have warned about deaths in various debates, including in breeding and food scandals. At some point, they fell dead, but they didn't intervene. I really want a commitment from the Minister on this. I will also consider retableing the three rejected motions for Limburg, but we shall first await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u57	I just looked up those motions about Limburg. A motion was about synchronization of legislation. That's not what the Christian Union stands for. Two motions were interesting, namely the one on the guarantee fund and the one on the emergency fund. I would very much like Mr Graus to ask the Minister what the state of affairs is. If indeed people still have damage that has not been compensated, the PVV will find us by her side. From the debates of that time I remember that things were going on and that the Minister had made promises. That is why we did not support the motions at the time, but of course it is not intended that people are still in harm's way at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u58	I think that is very fair and sincere of the Christian Union. At that time we had the motion on the synchronisation of legislation (22849, No. 23) because the area is a euregion. If the Germans turn off the pumps at some point, the Limburgers on the Dutch side will also suffer. That's the story. It is about the motions that the Christian Union makes possible and on which I will ask for another response. In the first motion referred to by the Christian Union (22849, No. 24) I asked the government to reconsider its position on the limitation period for claims, so that the injured parties could rely on the Guarantee Fund for mining damage. In the second motion referred to by the Christian Union (22849, No. 25) I asked the government, should the Minister of Economic Affairs insist on his position on limitation periods, to provide more clarity on the application of the emergency fund, including the Minister's support on the size of the fund. On behalf of my colleague from the Christian Union, I am asking for a response to this. Just maybe we can file those two motions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u59	Very good. Maybe until tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u60	I also wanted to sing the Limburg national anthem, but I see that I don't have time for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u61	We'll keep that for the second term. Then we'll have the orchestra. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven from the D66 Group. I wonder what she's gonna sing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. For today's debate, we have again received some 30 centimeters of reports on shale gas exploitation and we already had a lot of them. If you read all this, the conclusion for the D66 group is clear: shale gas in the Netherlands, that is not going to fly. It is an activity with a lot of impact, uncertainties and risks in a densely populated country without any clear evidence of usefulness and necessity. We don't know much yet. We do know, however, that there is a risk of the formation of soil movement in areas where cracks are found in the subsurface. We know that there is no really good solution for waste water and that there is a chance of failing wells. This could lead to environmental damage, which in turn could lead to problems with groundwater. We know that it can lead to falling house prices or falling sales from agriculture and horticulture and that there will be a nuisance for residents. Then we have not even discussed the practical problem of probably not being able to import shale gas into the gas network, so it must be set up on the spot. What impulse, what incentive is that for isolating homes? The costs of building a network were not included. In contrast to all these hooks and eyes, an average extraction scenario shows only a limited yield per year: 170 million per year. We don't get it all credited to our bank account, but the CPB hardly really puts the calculator on it. We do not allow ourselves to be poor in such an average extraction scenario, but we are also unlikely to be able to calculate quite a lot after 2050. As far as D66 is concerned, the future is green and not fossil, and in 2050 the Netherlands mainly focuses on green energy, green gas, rather than shale gas. My group is not a fundamental opponent of gas as a transition fuel. We will indeed need gas for a number of years for that transition, but we know that shale gas has too many hooks and eyes now that we have read all the reports. And it can compete with the development of green gas. We really shouldn't want that. But the Minister continues to keep the exploitation of shale gas firmly open. Although the decision has been postponed for a few years, spatial claims for shale gas are already being proposed. This could potentially compete with other applications in the subsurface. Moreover, many people remain so uncertain, both companies and residents, both those who want to exploit it and those who want to produce it, for example the horticultural producers. All those municipalities and provinces that called for clarity, we can give clarity. As far as my group is concerned, there is now a clear statement: we are not going to develop shale gas in the Netherlands. Then we do not have to reserve any spatial claims for shale gas in the Structure Vision Substrate. The moratorium can simply be transformed into a ban. Then the Minister also has a title on which he can reject company licence applications. Is the Minister prepared to modify the Concept of Structure Vision Underground, remove shale gas reservations and exclude shale gas extraction from the Mining Act by means of a letter of amendment? If not, we will perhaps come up with an amendment on this point. Gas extraction in Groningen is also on the agenda. I would like to thank the Minister for his feedback on the motions adopted in that debate. I am pleased that he is working with the National Coordinator Groningen to solve the problem of pre-financing in schools, so that there are no more obstacles to making schools future-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mrs Van Veldhoven referred to the amendment. I didn't miss anything, did I? We're not dealing with a law we can amend today, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u64	I hope Mr Vos has not missed the fact that we will soon be discussing the Mining Act. Of course, we will table that amendment on that occasion, but we await the Minister's response first. Maybe he's willing to give himself that clarity. In the Van Veldhoven/Jan Vos motion, we ask the government to set up an independent research programme in such a way that a mining decision can also be made on this basis. Of course, mining companies hold their own responsibility for their mining activities and have to continue to comply with the research obligation attached to them, but that does not mean that the Minister and the Chamber should only use the research of an interested party for their social responsibility to assess the extraction plan for safety. Can the independent knowledge network proposed by the Minister also carry out the full-fledged alternative research that enables such monitoring? My group is concerned about the injection of waste water in Twente, as there are leaks there. The CDA and the Christian Union groups have also referred to this. Risks of groundwater pollution and soil movements cannot be excluded. We have already discussed the way in which the choice of injection was made at the time. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider water cleaning or water injection? The Stop Wastewater Twente action group offered no less than 30,000 signatures yesterday. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. At Woerden, oil and gas may be recovered from 2017. The old mining plan has expired. If the mining company wants to win, a new plan must be submitted. How is the assessment of the new extraction plan going? How is waste water handled there? Can the Minister guarantee that at least the option of cleaning will also be explicitly examined? In its annual report, the SodM (State Monitoring of Mines) makes a number of recommendations, including the recommendation that geothermal energy producers should be given a clear framework of policy rules so that they have more guidance on how to organise and maintain their projects. In what way is the amendment of the Mining Act going to give them that clarity? The SodM also notes that an analysis should be made of the role and position of the Minister and the SodM in the follow-up after coal mining in Limburg. What is the Minister's view on this? I have a brief question about the appeal in the Urgenda case. My group is curious about the indicative planning of this appeal. When can we look forward to a verdict? Finally, I look forward to the treatment of the Mining Act. Hopefully it will take place soon. Then we will continue to talk about State surveillance of the mines, the possibility of withdrawing or changing permits and the grounds for doing so, and the participation of provinces and municipalities in the mining plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. To come straight to the door: last Friday it became very painfully clear that the increase in value to compensate for the long-term misery of the Groningen people is overdrawn by gas extraction. The first inhabitants have now been told that they are no longer getting money from their application. The CDA finds this totally unacceptable, because all parties here in the House of Representatives have made a commitment to the continuation of this arrangement. At the end of last year, the Minister himself extended this scheme to municipalities which were not yet covered. So how can these people be sold no at random? The Groningers don't trust the government. If the Minister doesn't change his attitude, he won't. This cannot be the intention of this Minister of Economic Affairs. During the debate on the extraction of gas in Groningen, I tabled a motion with colleagues on the contours and the settlement of damages. The Minister's letter says he's gonna take a look at the motion. During the work visit of the Committee for Economic Affairs to Groningen, it became clear that many residents outside the contours have to do with so-called weak land. The CDA would like the Minister to speed up the implementation of the motion. Residents, tenants and owners are in great uncertainty. My group is concerned about this. What's the minister gonna do for these people? When will they know where they are going and where they will be able to deal with their problems caused by gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u66	We agreed to talk today about mining activities unrelated to Groningen. My colleague Van Tongeren also briefly spoke about Groningen. I also understand it quite well when the increase in value regulation - on which my College Bosman has tabled a motion, which has been adopted by the Chamber - comes up for a moment, but I now hear eight, nine times the word 'Groningen' in the first three minutes. Mr President, would you ask the members of the Chamber to comply with the mutual agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u67	As far as I know, today's debate is on mining and on a whole range of subjects that have been raised here. I will go into that as well, but we also received a letter from the Minister last week explaining our motions. It is relevant whether or not these are carried out. Residents approach me about that. I'm in charge of my own input. I think it is important to make this point here today. A motion was tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren herself during a VAO, which also took the liberty of referring to Groningen. It is not appropriate then to lecture a member of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u68	I do not want to lecture any member of the Chamber, but I would like to reaffirm that we agreed that there would be three major debates with eight minutes' speaking time. We have already had the debate on Groningen. This is the debate on mining other than mining. Like Mr Vos, I understand a single remark or a single motion, but these are the arrangements. It is, of course, up to every Member of the European Parliament to decide how he or she intends to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u69	It is good that Mrs Van Tongeren confirms that we are talking about our own words. The House of Representatives will shortly be discussing the amendment of the Mining Act, in which, among other things, the safety of the Mining Act is better guaranteed and local authorities will also be involved in the decision-making process. What are the consequences for dealing with old permits and applications for environmental permits and for presenting extraction plans that are already in progress? In his letter on environmental management, the Minister states that governments are involved in these extraction plans. But what exactly does this mean? Should there not be a review of aspects of the new legislative proposal that give additional grounds for refusal in the case of permits of more than 10 years old? Do municipalities and provinces already have an advisory right to deal with applications for environmental permits? For example in Oppenhuizen, in the province of Friesland, it is a very old mining permit on which the inhabitants of the municipality are very concerned. They are afraid of soil decline, damage and decline in the value of their homes. Is the Minister also prepared to review this permit in the light of the new Mining Act? Will the new Mining Act be followed in the treatment of the Environmental Law and the extraction plan for the gas extraction in Oppenhuizen by giving advice to the province and the municipality? The NAM suspended the fracking at Saaksum. The minister said they could just keep doing this. However, the NAM considers that the sum of all activities is the reason not to go through with it. I'm assuming that, as long as that's true, they won't go through with it. The CDA hopes that the inclusion of fracking in the extraction plan under the new Mining Act and its review by the SodM will offer even better guarantees. We received a letter from the Minister last night about the 220 fracks that have been carried out so far. I will study that carefully in advance of the treatment of the new Mining Act. When examining the gas extraction decision in January, the Minister promised the CDA that he would come up with a single point of contact for mining damage. The CDA is very pleased with this commitment. The question is how the Minister intends to shape this further. So to what extent does the counter really have a role in the settlement of damages? This is very important for our group, also in relation to the reverse burden of proof, which we are talking about when dealing with the Mining Act. The new law therefore regulates this for Groningen, but our group considers it important to know how to deal with the rest of the country. This point of contact is essential. If this is not done professionally and is not delivered badly, our group can imagine that your reverse burden of proof will be passed on throughout the Netherlands. During the debate on gas extraction in January, my motion on the regulated use of conversion and storage was adopted, but the Minister does not carry out this motion without further justification. This while the Minister himself said that he thought it was important to go ahead and win. The CDA Group believes that both conversion and gas storage will be necessary in the summer period. But how can the Minister be so sure that the NAM, Gasunie and GasTerra are going to work together for a flat extraction? What agreements has the Minister made with the parties on this matter? Will the Minister send these appointments to the Chamber? Then the wastewater injection in Twente. The CDA has been working on this subject for a long time and the concerns that this raises in Twente's life. Last week it appeared that almost 30,000 people have indicated that they share those concerns and expect something from this Parliament and the Minister. Due to a leak and the discovery of several weak spots by bacteria in pipes between Schoonebeek and Twente, no wastewater is currently injected. The CDA Group also has concerns about the supply of drinking water. Is the Minister holding a finger on the wrist regarding the approval of State surveillance on the Mines about restarting? The CDA believes that waste water should be treated, as appears to be the case in Germany. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? Would he also like to make that his starting point for future policy? To what extent is the new Mining Act and in particular the environmental permit included in the measurement protocol the guarantee that measurements are made on seismicity, groundwater and well integrity? We are asking this because we believe that this is a point, given Question 67 and its answer, about shale gas. But how exactly is it going to frack or inject? Could that give rise to induced tremors? Is research on wastewater injection already being carried out in this way at the present time? If that's the case, I'm gonna ask you to make that investigation public. If not, why not? For example, in Twente, where water is injected, has there been research on the fault lines? According to the CDA Group, this should be done in any case and the results should also be public. I'm getting to the subject of shell gas. The CDA is still not convinced that shale gas extraction can be safe and clean. The usefulness and necessity of this have not yet been demonstrated. That is why we are satisfied with the Minister's decision not to renew the current search permits. The Minister will rule out commercial search and extraction over the next five years. Well, he'd like to do some research. But then what is the purpose of this investigation? Have there been any discussions on this with other European Member States? The CDA does not currently see the usefulness and need of investment by our government in such research. Why does the Minister want to do that investigation? We have had a working visit to Limburg with a number of colleagues from the Chamber. It's all about the mining damage that's left behind. The Minister has a very great responsibility in this regard. In the 2014 annual report, SodM states that the Ministry of EZ should analyse its own role and the role of SodM in the context of the subsequent damage caused by coal mining in Limburg. Where is this analysis? In dealing with the new Mining Act, the CDA would like complete clarity on limitation periods. We advise the Minister to send the investigations to the House of Representatives quickly. Otherwise, the Minister may see the same path as the route with the Court of Justice on the reverse burden of proof. I can imagine that the Minister would like to deal with this in a different way this time. In a letter on environmental management, the Minister also talks about the distribution of pleasures and burdens. It is a good thing that the Minister is finally getting more attention to this, not only in the case of wind energy but also in the case of mining. How can residents benefit from mining if this is safe? Or are they just looking at damage? We understand the hesitations and the great resistance of the inhabitants. If you don't feel heard and if you see how the people of Groningen are being treated, I would have my doubts, too. That is what the government really owes to itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u70	I thank the CDA. It has always assisted the Limburgers, especially in activities in the Chamber to support those people. Can the CDA also agree with the view that stopping the water pumps by the Germans just across the border near the mining damage zone in Limburg can be seen as a mining activity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think that has had a very big effect. The groundwater level there has risen and all this has caused tears and damage. So that is absolutely important. And of course that ground doesn't stop at the border; it all goes on and it's connected. That is why I asked the Minister at the time to investigate how things were going in Germany and how legislation could become more uniform. Does that mean there's a statute of limitations? Only since 1994, not since the 1970s.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u72	I'm very happy about that. The CDA spokesperson may still be able to ask the Minister if he sees the stopping of the water pumps by the Germans as a mining activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u73	This question has now been passed on to the Minister. The CDA wants us to have a CO-neutral energy supply in the coming decades, as agreed in Paris. For example, in the coming decades, municipalities and network operators will have to work together to get gas infrastructure up and running. The heat supply in the built environment and in the industry is mainly on gas in the Netherlands. Gas still plays a role in the transition over the next decades, perhaps decades. The balancing between own gas, if safely extracted, and Russian gas requires the deployment of the Ministry of EZ, also called for a facilitating and steering role. I can imagine that we will continue to extract gas from the North Sea. How does the Minister view this further? I see time goes very fast, so I'm about to finish. How can the Minister ensure that separate geothermal projects can "learn" more from each other so that the costs of geothermal projects may be further reduced? There are many separate projects and we believe that this is going to be a major growth in the future. However, we still see opportunities and opportunities in this area. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on CO storage under the North Sea. The Minister is working on that. Could he give an update on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u74	The CDA often insists on people who are concerned about something in their environment, whether it is double rows of windmills or wastewater injection. In the extraction of shale gas, farmers and gardeners are particularly concerned about what this extraction could mean for the saleability of their products. They've also been here with all their products. The moratorium referred to by the CDA runs until the end of this cabinet period. Next year around this time it will be over and this Minister will explicitly keep the option open for commercial shale gas extraction from 2020. He's even going to reserve areas for it. What is the CDA waiting for before it gives a clear answer to the questions relating to shale gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u75	I think the CDA has a very clear answer. We are not waiting for shale gas extraction in the Netherlands at the moment, certainly not for the next ten years. Let me be very clear about that here. However, I do not have a glass ball. For the very distant future, therefore, I cannot rule out the possibility of this extraction being clean and safe. Nor can I now know whether it will be useful and necessary. For future generations, at least now, I want to say that it cannot be safe and clean now. So we just shouldn't do it now, as far as the CDA is concerned, certainly not for the next ten years. This makes us absolutely clear to everyone in the Netherlands about how we stand in this regard. But what if in the distant future other extraction methods or something like that are found? Maybe D66 has a glass ball, but I don't have one. That is why I do not want to rule that out at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u76	No one has a glass ball and no one answers like-dan questions. But the question is, what are you doing? Now there is no legal basis for the Minister to ultimately reject licence applications. If an application for authorisation is made, it must be dealt with. He's even going to reserve areas for it. An important first step that we could take is to at least not reserve areas that we say should be won. A structural vision is reviewed every 10 years. So we could now say in the structural vision that we do not have room for it. And then we'll see again in ten years' time, as Mrs Mulder says. What's the CDA's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u77	I can't wait to see how the Minister reacts to this. Depending on that answer, we will look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. We are all very much for the environment and sustainability, but we all want a hot shower and always the possibility to charge our mobile phone. And, if you can, it should be as affordable as possible. This is the task of the government: to ensure a clean, reliable and affordable energy supply. At present, we are in a transition period from a central fossil energy system to a decentralised energy system with CO-neutral energy as its goal. This objective can be achieved in different ways and it is up to the government to set the frameworks. The Minister has great ambitions in the field of heat. That's what the cabinet issued the heat vision on. Geothermics can provide a lot of opportunities in some areas. Geothermics are also a broad-based part of sustainability in the Chamber. In geothermal energy, hot water is pumped up and cooled water is pumped back. A ban on pumping water back into the soil can mean the end of geothermal energy in the country. But what do we want? We do not want windmills on land, no nuclear power plant, no shale gas and no coal plants. Solar panels fail to achieve the objectives and shale gas is already rejected before it has been examined whether this can be commercially won. In fact, it's already being rejected before we even know if it's in the ground. We should not rule out choices for the future that are not now feasible. The Netherlands is an innovative country, a country of entrepreneurs that can make future opportunities possible. I told you before: the government has to set the frameworks. Especially in the field of safety, the Netherlands has learned a lot in recent years. The VVD is therefore pleased that we will soon be discussing the Mining Act. As a result, many improvements are being made in the field of safety in mining operations in our country. Although I don't see this as a debate on the Mining Act, I'm sure I'll take an advance on it. Many people have heard about the independence of the SodM following the OVV report. Can the Minister explain how he enshrined this independence in the new law? Finally. During the past period there have also been reports from Groningen about the fact that the increase in value would already be overdrawn. Is that right? My colleagues Van Tongeren and Mulder also spoke about this. I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u79	Did "finally" really mean "finally"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u80	It's done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u81	Okay, you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u82	I would like to ask about the injection of toxic waste water. My colleague from the VVD went over that a little lightly. Does the VVD think you should be able to pump toxic waste water back into the Groningen field?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u83	We have very important regulations in the Netherlands. We sometimes pretend that we are in complete naivety engaged in all kinds of activities in the Netherlands, but that has been preceded by thorough studies. There are responsibilities. There are environmental impact assessments. There are all kinds of responsibilities that help to ensure that there is a framework for that, if it is necessary or possible. I think that's very important. So again, I'm not ruling anything out. It's about security. We can rule out everything in advance, but then we must also conclude that energy is actually becoming priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr President, do you now give me the floor with a hand gesture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u85	Sometimes I nod too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u86	With most presidents, you have to wait until you're given the floor, so I'm trying to follow the rules as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u87	In many cases, a nod is enough, but from now on, I will give you your name and give you an explicit order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mr President, for the proper handling of the rules in the Chamber. I have a question for the VVD. We often hang out for Groningers. They have had a lot to do because of the mining industry. There's a lot hanging over their heads already. Does this group have to be patient to see whether or not large quantities of waste water go there? Is there any level at which the VVD also says that this population has now had enough to choose and that if we are ever going to extract shale gas, we are going to find a solution for the waste water outside the Groningenveld? Or is that moment never there for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u89	As MPs, we also have a responsibility to prevent us from creating all kinds of what-as-situations. We also have a responsibility to leave things as far as possible to the facts. I do not recall that there has been a discussion about the ticket with possible and perhaps, but this still means that there is a framework for where it can or cannot be done. Mrs Van Tongeren pretends it's all patient and it's going to happen to the Groningen and the people from the Twente. Care shall be taken in this regard. It's being investigated. Research is also carried out on the waste water injection in Twente. There's just another environmental impact assessment coming up. Evaluations are being carried out. People get to have a say and be heard. So it's not a robbery. It is not a patient watch, because people have a responsibility in it, both on the production side and on the part of governments and residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u90	We are now going to listen to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term, Mr Jan Vos of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about mining in the Netherlands. If I counted correctly, we have received four petitions in the last two days. Even in The Hague, that's a lot. Whether you're talking about Saaksum, Woerden, Schoonebeek or Terschelling, in the Netherlands there's the extraction of fossil minerals and they're also very concerned about this extraction. That probably has everything to do with the big problems that have arisen in Groningen. However, it also has a lot to do with the transition from fossil to sustainable. This has already been said by a number of spokesmen. People don't want fossil energy anymore. The fossil age is coming to an end and we are moving to a time with more renewable energy. I liked Mrs Dik's conclusion in her contribution. She mentioned the inclusion of the Mining Act in the archive, but we are of course far from there. Until then, we have some nuts to crack. In Woerden, in the Green Heart, Vermilion wants to gain gas under a residential area with 10,000 residents. In a letter, the Minister indicated, on the basis of the current Mining Act, that all applications for authorisation and extraction plans should be checked against current regulations. What's the latest on Woerden? I will take a look there myself on Monday with Mrs Dik van de ChristenUnion, whom I just recalled. With the support of the Labour Party, the Agnes Mulder motion was adopted not to frack at Saaksum for the time being. Mrs Mulder already knew that there will be no more fracking at all. Is that so? The Minister has indicated that it can be safe. I have taken note of the inspector-general's report and I think I can conclude from it that it is safe for conventional gas to be used. Can the Minister comment on the latest state of affairs? In Schoonebeek in Noordoost-Twente, a lot of commotion arose about the injection of chemically charged waste water by the NAM into empty gas fields. Since May 2015, the injection has stopped there due to calamities with the transport line. An evaluation study is currently being carried out by the NAM, carried out by Royal Haskoning. An important measurement point in this research is social support. How does the Minister feel about this social support? Would he care to comment on that? We understand that not everyone can decide for themselves what is happening in their environment because then nothing would happen at all in the Netherlands, but the elimination of social support for injecting wastewater might also have something to do with the spirit of time. Something that was considered quite normal in the 1970s................................................................................................................................................. As Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks said, the Germans have stricter regulations. She also thought of a new m.e.r. Could the Minister take a careful look at that? Maybe we just live in a different time, where we want to deal with wastewater in a different way. What does the Minister think about the exclusion for gas extraction of UNESCO's World Heritage areas? Of course, my group has this question with reference to the Wadden region and Terschelling. Why not opt for exclusion of all water abstraction areas in the Netherlands? And why does the exclusion only apply to a kilometre of depth and not below, according to a letter from the Minister dated 17 June last year? What about the motion by my group and other groups adopted on 27 October 2015? The Court is opposed to the extraction at Terschelling, because it has not been made plausible that it fits within the new framework for environmental and nature protection. Can the Minister promise that no new mining permits will be issued for Terschelling until the end of the cabinet period? During the examination of the Mining Act, the amendment to item No. 36 adopted by my party and GroenLinks. This meant broadening the grounds for refusing to grant search and extraction permits. At the moment, the law mainly lays down technical and financial requirements on the basis of which a licence should not be granted. At that time, we wanted the environment, nature, safety, public health, water extraction and the possibility of damage caused by soil movement to serve as grounds for refusal in the assessment of an application for authorisation. We also wanted all relevant aspects to be taken into account in relation to the environment, including landscape value, water quality, soil quality, air quality, noise and smell. The starting point should be that the living environment of people in the Netherlands should not deteriorate. Now the Minister has taken that out of last year's bill and added it to the amendment of the Mining Act (strengthening security interest mining and direction search and extraction permits) (34348). The Labour Party is concerned about the way in which the original amendment is now incorporated into the legislative proposal. In fact, as a number of other groups have already pointed out, there is a reference to policy documents that are still to come, namely the Strong (Structural Vision Underground) and the Decree on General Land use Planning Rules (Barro). Why is the original amendment no longer accepted? Why are only national interests included in Strong, and not local and regional interests such as landscape, nature, water and spatial quality? Finally. We make a big change in the Netherlands. The minister mentioned it in his earlier contribution today at the VAO/VSO about 2050 and a long path that we are going to follow. I think we're in a transition that's gonna go much faster than we realize so far. As is often the case, not so much the Lower House or the Cabinet is leading, but especially the sentiment in the Netherlands. The fact that Dutch people are so much concerned about the extraction of fossil resources and that they want us to pay more attention to renewable energy strengthens me once again in the belief that we need to continue with this shift. The great drama that has taken place in Groningen has, I think, been extremely catalysing in retrospect for the process we are going through here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u92	My question to Mr Vos is very much in line with the end of his speech. Let's accelerate that transition. I would like to refer to the motion tabled by Mr Samsom and Mr Van Ojik, which has taken a very good step, namely a moratorium on the extraction of shale gas until the end of this cabinet period. That end is in sight. Is Mr Vos of the opinion that the extraction of shale gas in the Netherlands is now of use and necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u93	I am a little surprised at the attention that the D66 group has suddenly paid to shale gas, because that is an issue that has been dealt with as far as I am concerned. We have de facto a moratorium, at least for this cabinet period. Today you come back to that point every time. I am not so much a member of other groups. So I don't understand it very well. As far as I am concerned, it is already settled, precisely at the motion of the Labour Party and GroenLinks. We often hang out on green themes. The moratorium is already in place. That the Minister still wants to do scientific drilling, I'd like to leave it to him. I'd make other choices myself when it comes to science, but you can't control everything as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u94	That's not an answer to the question. That moratorium will end next year. If the view of the Labour Party does not go any further than next year, it is a different sound than I usually hear from Mr Vos. Two years ago, Mr Vos' party leader also said that shale gas is not part of the future of the Dutch energy supply. Shouldn't we at least take a first step by not reserving areas specifically where it is explicitly made possible? Does Mr Vos think that would be a good step at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u95	Schaliegas is not part of the sustainable energy supply for the Netherlands in the future, but I cannot recognize myself in the great Stientje van Veldhovenschaliegasshow that is now being staged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u96	A personal fact: there are 30 centimeters of reports on shale gas on the agenda. The fact that Mr Vos does not choose to speak on this is up to him. The pieces are simply on the agenda, so I do not understand Mr Vos' s snare. Actually, I don't think it's very good for him either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u97	I didn't see those pieces on the agenda. That agenda, as far as I can tell, is just empty. So I'd like to receive those pieces again. I would like to say that I would like to take back those words about the Stientje van Veldhovenschaliegasshow if it happened personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u98	Shall I offer Mr. Fox the pieces? I'll let him read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr Vos has perhaps also made a mistake here, just as he thought that the documents on the motions on Groningen were not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u100	No, that was about the agreements we had informally made, Mrs Mulder. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u101	I think it's time we had dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u102	We shall continue with the debate on mining. I would point out that we are also having a debate tonight with the Minister for Housing and National Service, so I hope that we can keep it short and pointy. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr. Chairman. Mining has brought a lot of prosperity and employment to the Netherlands, and also a lot of energy independence, which has given our country a strong position over the past decades, in a world in which many countries are completely dependent on other countries for their energy supply. It started in the Netherlands with coal mining and the jaknikers in Schoonebeek, which I remember from my primary school days, and that was a long time ago. I mention the extraction of gas in Groningen, but also in many dozens of small fields elsewhere in the Netherlands, but also the extraction of gas and oil in the North Sea. In several places in our country and in the Dutch territorial part of the North Sea, we have been able to raise fossil fuels, fossil energy carriers through mining, and benefit from them. But if you bring something up, if you can take advantage of something, if you use something, then of course that also causes problems, negative effects and disadvantages. This has been very strong in Groningen in recent years. It can also be seen in Limburg, I hope on another scale. In Groningen, we have now tackled the problem very strongly in various ways. We have talked about this many times in this house. There's less gas coming out. We ensure that the damage is compensated and as much as possible prevented. In Groningen, every effort has been made to provide the problem with a good policy response. In Limburg we are also looking very closely at what can be done there as a result of the coal mining which has been going on there for hundreds of years, and up to 40 years ago very intensively. This can still have consequences, and we are now looking into them thoroughly. Above all these problems, all these disadvantages, all the negative effects we face in mining, oil, coal and gas extraction, there is actually one very big problem. This problem affects not only the Netherlands or Europe, but the whole world: the climate problem caused by excessive greenhouse gas emissions, especially CO. These CO2 emissions are again caused by the use of fossil energy sources. In the whole world and therefore also in the Netherlands, we are part of Europe, that part of the world where industrial development began very early on, the use of fossil energy sources has taken place on a large scale for many decades. We are dealing with this global problem and we are also responsible for it, for the problem and for the solution. That is why the transition to renewable energy must be made globally, at European level and in the Netherlands. Above everything that we have raised this afternoon and this evening, there is this great problem and the need to do something about it. This means that we must make the transition to renewable energy. That is a very big challenge. If you switch from fossil energy to sustainable renewable energy, you need a completely new infrastructure: all new cars, all new possibilities for electricity supply. There is also a need for very different work in industry. Across the board, the infrastructure needs to be refurbished. Unparalleled investment needs to be made. In calculations made worldwide, hundreds of billions of dollars are flying around your ears. In the Netherlands, we are talking about many tens of billions of dollars that we need to invest to build this new infrastructure and make the transition to renewable energy. In addition, the technology for renewable energy is still under development, and we are already building up a new infrastructure, and we are still getting experience with it. We are seeing new developments and new developments are being invented by us. We are still fully involved in this development process, but we are also in the middle of the investment process. That doesn't mean we're gonna wait and see. We have already seen, at the very beginning of the coalition agreement, that this had to be done. This has been further developed in the energy agreement and we are now fully engaged in this. Five out of ten coal plants are closing down. There is already a debate in the Chamber on scenarios for the remaining five coal plants. In those five remaining coal plants, part of the coal is replaced by renewable biomass. We are working on geothermals, with manure fermentation, with solar panels, with wind on land and wind at sea. In the latter case, we have the ambition to launch a new wind farm at sea five times in five years, any park with a capacity of 700 megawatts, which used to be the capacity of a very large power plant. Five years in a row, we set in motion a development that will lead to those five parks of 700 megawatts running in 2023. In Mrs Thieme's contribution, I noticed that she said that nothing was happening in the area of renewable energy and that the cabinet is focusing entirely on fossil energy. That statement really mattered to me. I find it pertinently incorrect and contrary to what the cabinet, myself, my staff and the Chamber are working hard on, namely to make the transition to renewable energy. Supposing nothing is done about it, it runs counter to reality. In 2020, which is in four years' time, 40% of the total electricity production in the Netherlands will be sustainable. In the year 2020, we have three times as much capacity available for windmills on land as we had in 2013. The windmills that are then on land together account for the electricity consumption of 3 million households. We have 9.5 times more available solar panels in 2020 than we had in 2013. And those solar panels are good for the electricity consumption of 1.3 million households. We have made available 5.5 times as much wind energy at sea in a period of ten years, rather than seven years. Together, this is good for the electricity consumption of 5 million households. So you can see that we are taking giant steps forward under great pressure: a triple, a fivefold increase, a humiliation of the production of different types of renewable energy. I am not talking about the fact that we are fully engaged in the transition to electric cars by building a grid and promoting the use of such cars by tax means. As a result, there are many more electric cars in the Netherlands, which can be charged anywhere. We are also taking great steps forward there. I am not even talking about the energy saving of 1.5% a year. Finally, there is the major task of the Energy Agreement. We are doing very, very much about the transition to renewable energy!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr President, I had almost made a point of order. The Minister is right to say that there are often untruths spoken here by members of the States-General. It's been bothering me for ten years. You're in the Bureau, and that's why I'm telling you to say something about it. It is the same parliamentarians every time who speak this nonsense and thus deceive the people. I think that the Minister has a point and that these people should gradually be tapped on their fingers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u105	If the Minister wants to respond to that, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u106	I would like to leave that to the parliamentarians themselves. They decide what is said and I have the opportunity to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u107	But if we can't say any more nonsense...! Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u108	I certainly won't be making any nonsense, Mr. Chairman. I'm responding a little later, because Mrs Thieme did the first term and I'm going to step in for her now. Mrs Thieme, of course, had no criticism of the realization of these wind farms, as the Party for Animals fully supports that. We are concerned that the Minister is still holding on to these fossil fuels far too much. For example, the shale gas door remains ajar. We said a while ago about the gas extraction in Groningen that 12 billion cubic metres is safe, but we are still way above that. Those are the things we are criticizing! We're still on the fossil infusion, and that's what the Party for Animals is critical of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u109	Soon the spokesman of the Party for the Animals will return home. I don't know how he does that. I don't know if he's taking the car, taking the train or driving his moped home. At least fossil energy will be used to get him home. When he gets home, that house is warm. That's thanks to fossil energy. He can push a button and then it's light. And that too is thanks to fossil energy. Indeed, at the moment, 94% of our energy fossil is still present. If that were to fall away or if I didn't pay attention to it, the consequences would be unprecedented. You understand that, don't you? The whole of society - all hospitals, all companies, traffic lights, transport, heating and electricity - is still 94% dependent on fossil energy. It would be foolish, then, if I were to focus solely on renewable energy and completely forgetting that we still have to keep the matter going for the time being. People still have to work! People still have to be able to live. The suggestion that we focus on fossil energy is completely wrong. We are focusing on renewable energy. It would also be very unwise if we did not pay attention to that fossil energy at all. In fact, it would be completely irresponsible. I also do not understand how you can argue that with dry eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u110	Maybe I can reassure the Minister: I'll take the leg car to my apartment in a minute. I don't use fossil energy. And when I get home, the temperature in my apartment is probably 13 oC or 14 oC, because the heating is turned off and doesn't turn on for that short period of time. I meant, of course, that we're still hanging way too much from the fossil infusion. We should have made that change years ago. It has to be faster now, otherwise we will be saying the same thing here in ten years' time. Good steps have indeed been taken, but it is not fast enough. On the other hand, we still leave the door open for shale gas and win too much gas. We are talking about the storage of Russian gas. We just really need to get rid of it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u111	I expect natural gas revenues on the state budget to be around EUR 12 billion less this year than in 2013. This is largely due to the reduced production. The fact that we continue to gamble on gas and keep working on gas is therefore not true at all. We are working on renewable energy. That's what we're focusing on. It is suggested that the steps we are taking are very few. If you realize that in four years' time we're gonna get 40% electricity from renewable energy, I've got the triple, the five-fold, the humiliation in a limited number of years called "sustainable," isn't it crazy to say it's not a big deal? That is absolutely a misrepresentation of things. Mr. Chairman. The transition is in full swing. In the meantime, we all have our responsibilities, not only to the government but also to the parliament, to society for electricity supply, heat supply, industry, employment and transport. It is simply necessary to use fossil energy for the time being, as short as possible, as little and as responsible as possible. The sooner we can bring that down, the better it is. Whether it is the objective of the coalition agreement or that of the energy agreement, the COP21 objective or the Urgenda objective, every time very ambitious targets are set for the relatively short term, for which we must do everything we can to achieve them. That's what we're doing with each other. Let us also acknowledge our own efforts and see that we are doing so in a very sensible, necessary and responsible way. Fortunately, for the period in which we still have to extract fossil energy, we have excellent rules and procedures for this extraction. We have well-functioning governments and public institutions, all of which try to do it as responsibly as possible and are constantly accountable in public. We have responsible companies, which comply with the rules and with which governments can work well together. I am well aware that all kinds of problems arise, which we will discuss again this evening. I also know very well that things can be done better and that things have to be done differently. That is what we are doing, and we are doing so, but we must realise that, when we work on all the current problems that are currently occurring in fossil energy, we must keep the focus on renewable energy. That is the need for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u112	As the Minister rightly points out, a very large part of our energy supply is still fossil. Now our group has indicated that it wants to have a better distribution of desires and burdens for this too. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mrs Mulder is asking about lusts and burdens. When I talk about EUR 12 billion less annual income on the national budget, we are talking mainly about burdens. How can you best distribute the pleasures and burdens when extracting oil and gas in the North Sea or when extracting gas in Groningen and the dozens of other small fields in the Netherlands? If we establish a direct relationship between the mining industry and the people in the vicinity, we shall abandon the principle that we have been applying for decades in the Netherlands, namely that what is in the subsurface, is ours, and that we are using it for our collective provision, for our prosperity, for our defence and to stimulate our export industry. We are now also using it for investment in renewable energy. That's what we do to each other. For new developments that we are working on, especially with regard to renewable energy, it is good to try to establish the link between incurred burdens and desired needs. However, in order to do so retroactively for the extraction of gas and oil, I do not think that this is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u114	Is it perhaps realistic for the Minister to include so much fossil energy in the energy dialogue for the next few years that this is going to be looked at with a view to the future? I can imagine that it is very difficult to do it retroactively, but if the Minister is looking at the future, he might as well take the question of how to divide it something else. Because of the appreciation scheme, we see how many problems there are in Groningen. We do not want to have these problems in other places in our country. Does the Minister therefore still want to consider looking at it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u115	Just the fact that Mrs Mulder raises this point and that we are discussing it this evening shows that it is an interesting point for the energy dialogue. That energy dialogue is meant to indicate what should happen between 2023 and 2050 in terms of energy. It is the transfer of information, but also listening to views. I can very well imagine that Mrs Mulder, other citizens and governments, are putting forward this sort of thing. We will then discuss this with each other and involve it at the end of this year in drawing up the energy agenda for future policy. Mrs Mulder has made a point that is real for the energy dialogue. Mr. Chairman. We have a good starting position with our energy. I have already said that we have been energy independent for decades; we did import oil, but we also exported gas and, on balance, we were an exporting country. We've made a lot of money out of it, too. I said earlier that we are now making much less money, but in the period between 1960 and 2015, Dutch society has made 282 billion euros of natural gas. We have built something with mining in the Netherlands, including a reliable energy supply. I think that the Dutch electricity supply is the most reliable in the world and the same applies to our gas supply. We have our own gas, from small and large fields, from the North Sea, from Russia and Norway and there is LNG supply via Rotterdam. As far as electricity and gas are concerned, we are very well connected to other countries, so we now have a reliable and affordable electricity supply. This is a good basis for the great challenge we face, namely to make a responsible transition to renewable energy. I am delighted with a lot of issues raised by the spokesmen. I will try to get some out of it at the beginning of my answer and to deal with it together. Then I will go into the various comments made by the spokesmen. However, I do not manage to keep it all together by theme, so I might jump a little from one spokesperson to another and from one subject to another. However, at the end of my reply, I hope that all the points raised by the spokesmen will have provided an appropriate response. Let me start with the Structure Vision Underground. This one is about mining, but not just about mining. The structural vision is also about water supply and about the storage of substances that we do not want to keep above ground but want to bring to the subsurface. There are a lot of claims on that subsurface. We have already arranged the spatial planning for the upper ground in the Netherlands in great detail, but it is good that we realize what lies ahead for claims on the subsurface, what is the importance of those claims and where you can do certain things and where you better not do certain things at all. That's what we're all figuring out right now. The committee that supervises this, the Commission for M.E.R., has told us that you must always look up the boundaries for this. If there is any possibility that anything will happen with shale gas in the future, you need to see where that might occur. If you don't know where this can be done, you should take very large places where it can be done. Then that is one of the claims that are possible and which you may have to take into account. Of course, you also have other claims, including the very important claim of the water we need. For example, there are a lot of other things that are all brought into view in those investigations. Then we look at where they conflict with each other, where in such a case preference should be given to where and where a combination is possible, so that you do one at a certain depth in a responsible way and at another depth, with an impenetrable layer between them, the other. Such things are all portrayed in the Structure Vision Underground. We are doing very useful preliminary work. Once this Structure Vision Underground is being designed, we are going to talk about it with the drivers in the country who are involved in different ways. That's gonna be pretty much the middle of the year. The whole will then be presented and discussed in the Chamber at the end of this year. Then we can talk about all these things: how did we handle it? Did it go well? Can the Court agree with the conclusions which the government intends to draw from them? All these things will be dealt with, but for now it seems very sensible to me to do thorough preliminary work for the Structural Vision Underground, so that responsible decision-making will be necessary in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u116	Of course, I agree with the latter, but if you go into a particular investigation, it is useful to give it a certain direction. Is the Minister now saying that all interests are at the same level? Or does he agree with GroenLinks that water is so fundamental that you cannot exchange it for more nuclear waste storage, more strategic oil storage or waste water injection? The minister just said, if you go home, you can't do anything without getting involved with fossil fuel. Water is much more fundamental for the Netherlands, isn't it? Doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yeah, but there's a lot going on. In Limburg there are hundreds of years of coal mining. So there you have all kinds of horizontal and vertical holes in the ground, which can have certain consequences. In Twente for many decades, perhaps 50 or 60 years, there has been talk of salt extraction. There, water has been constantly pumped into the ground in which the salt was dissolved. Then it was pumped up and the salt was taken out. There are huge cavities left in the ground. We must also take account of this fact. I'll be back on production water later, but if you win gas, water will come up. That goes back to the bottom. That's a claim, too. Once you've cleared out gas fields, you don't have large cavities, but porous rocks with very high pressure of gas at first. If that pressure goes away, it also has consequences for the inkling. We have places where oil extraction takes place and stops again. Perhaps there will be another shale gas extraction in the future. I'm not comparing that with drinking water as far as priority is concerned. Of course drinking water is very important, but it may well be that you can win responsible drinking water while underneath you store production water with a good impenetrable layer via injection. For example, you could combine different claims on the subsurface in a responsible way. I don't know if it's actually true, but I think it needs to be figured out. It's being picked out at the moment. When it's sorted out, we're gonna decide on that. I think it would be very wrong to anticipate research results and decide what we are going to do and what should always be at the forefront. Let us just wait and see what comes out of the investigation and then discuss it with each other. That's responsible decision-making, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u118	This minister clearly sees things quite differently from CDA Minister Verhagen for him. It did say that the water needs for human life are about the most important thing and that this need must therefore be covered as a first priority, not just for this generation but for all generations after us. Once we have polluted it, such a source of water will not come back. I understand the rest of the argument. Whether you're trying to save a caverne with fly ash or try to maintain it in another way, doesn't matter. I understand that there are different ways of doing this, but I am getting distressed signals from many water-winners who are already saying that they are seriously concerned about drinking water in 30, 40 or 50 years' time. They do not hear and see a lot of space for shale gas in three of the four scenarios, but far too little attention is paid to the protection of drinking water. It is not just about drinking water protection areas, but also about the areas of abstraction and the areas where these companies are gaining surface water. That has to do with the question of what you do on the surface, because that subsurface is not there without the upper surface. GroenLinks would very much appreciate the Minister's further efforts to ensure that the need for all of us to drink water during the day, that agriculture has water and that our nature has water, must be undisputed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u119	I have no need to make a comparison between shale gas and water. I find that incomparable. We are going to reduce fossil energy in the Netherlands and build sustainable energy. I am therefore particularly interested in renewable energy. Of this fossil energy, shale gas is not at all at issue for the time being. I didn't do anything to stimulate or prioritize shale gas, not at all. But I also don't feel like ruling things out prematurely. I do not know exactly what is in it and I do not know exactly if it is possible at some point to get something out of it in a responsible way. I don't know whether it might be necessary to do that at some point. That is why I tend to say that at least we want to know what is in the bottom of shale gas, where it is located and in what quantities. We are not doing anything about this for the first five years and whether we are going to do anything about it in the future should be decided in the future. I just want to know now to have it in mind. In the front of my mind, of course, I have the water supply. We are constantly working on water supply here. When we talk about the limitation of manure and the restriction of intensive livestock farming, it is also about the quality of drinking water. For the Structure Vision Underground, drinking water provision is the first thing you think about. However, I do not feel like removing things, moving them forward or explaining them in the second order while working on the Structure Vision Substrate. It is quite possible that the study shows that combinations of functions are possible in a responsible manner in certain places. Why should we rule them out in advance? We are fully engaged in the Structural Vision Substrategy and we think we can present the results to the Chamber before the end of the year. Then we can talk to the Chamber about it and then the Chamber can make statements about it. I don't think it's wise to do that now, during the pre-work. I'll continue the injection of production water. Several spokesmen have referred to this as toxic waste water, and I think it is good that we know what it is about. It's about production water that comes up when you win oil or gas. Then that production water is injected back into the soil. Then there are other substances, because you have to separate the emulsion from oil and water when it comes up. You're gonna need chemicals for that. This production water can often not be injected at the same site, because it is not properly supplied. Then you'll have to transport it to another place. During this transport there must be no accidents and then the addition of chemicals will also be useful. That production water consists of 99.97% of salt water. For the rest, there are 0.0212% additions to that production water. That water is injected into the ground. Some of the additions break down into the ground and some of them remain, but in the subsurface. Once the production water comes up, we want to remove two thirds of the chemical additives. It is therefore not good to talk about toxic waste; it is wise to talk about salt water with some additions. The whole is then brought back to the bottom. After Mrs Mulder's interruption, I shall go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u120	It is now being brought as if it were all completely safe and good. We do see that there has been a leakage in a meadow in the municipality of Hardenberg and that a farmer himself found out and not because all the systems and bubbles started ringing. The farmer found out. The place had to be excavated, because all the substances were released that didn't belong in the country. It can affect drinking water extraction if it doesn't go well. The SodM has shut the place down, not one month, but many months. There's bacteria coming into those tubes that are affecting the place. It's not going well yet. The CDA wonders whether, under the precautionary principle, the Minister does not also consider it wise to choose to purify that waste water in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'm trying to answer that. I'll go into it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u122	This is a very simple representation of the facts by the Minister. He says there's little contamination in it: 0.02%. I would just like to give you a few figures. If you have 1 m of water and throw in 1 liter of poison, so only 0.1%, that whole cube could be completely poisoned. Of some substances you only have to put one drop of water in 1 m of water to pollute the whole tub; it is toxic. Then you're talking about a lot of zeros behind the decimal point. It's not about numbers behind the decimal point, but it's about what toxic substances they are. I don't hear the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u123	The minister had just begun. I said that we can talk about toxic waste water, but it is good to face the fact that that production water, which comes up when oil and gas are extracted and then you return to it, consists of 99.97% of salt water. I'm just saying that. We have been injecting production water since 1972. We are currently doing this at 19 different locations in 24 different wells, because EIA studies have shown that this is the best way to deal with that production water. This is an example of how we deal with things on the basis of sensible rules and procedures. Of course it has an effect and of course you can also purify all that water. It has been examined what facilities you need for this, what energy costs and what the alternative is. That's injecting. Then where does it end up? Then it ends up at a depth in the subsurface where it originally comes from. On the basis of a comparison of its effects with that of aboveground purification, it was then decided to do so. That is what we have been doing since 1972. The decisions to continue to do so have also been taken in this century. I shall now turn to the question of what decision we are currently preparing on Twente.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u124	That does not quite answer my question. The minister says that 99.97% is salt water. That means there's 300 ml of poison on every tub of water. I do not know what poison that is; perhaps the Minister can answer that. With that, the whole toxicity stands or falls. I have not heard an answer to that, but that is really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u125	It's not poison, it's chemicals. That's not the same as poison. These are 0.02% of chemicals and additives, 0.01% of oil residues and 0.004% of loose particles from the subsurface that have emerged. I'm not talking it all away. I'm just trying to describe it as it is. The Chamber says we're pumping toxic waste water into the ground. I would like to mention what we are doing, how long we have been doing it and why we are doing it. I'm about to go into the injection of production water in Twente.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u126	The minister must know the international sign of poison: a skull with two crossed bones underneath. Until very recently, these signs were found all over Twente in toxic waste water, in injection sites. Very recently, as part of a charming offensive, the NAM is replacing those signs, but those signs have been hanging from the beginning to indicate to the people: watch out, stay out of this, because this is toxic. I think there are also legal requirements when such a sign has to be hung. Does the Minister know that those signs are being removed at the moment? Can the Minister tell me if that is in line with our laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u127	There is nothing known to me about signs that are or aren't there. Anyway, I didn't order signs to be removed. I think you should be transparent in everything you do. If Mrs Van Tongeren asks for a look at the signs, I would be happy to do so. The Chamber always talks about toxic waste. I have just indicated what this production water is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u128	I thank the Minister for his commitment to find out whether the NAM can exchange those signs at all. If there's any skull signs, I'm gonna assume it's toxic. So I keep talking about toxic waste water. I have a second question. Professor Lucas Reijnders, who is highly regarded in the Netherlands, has looked at what is in that water. He can judge that better than I can, but he says that heavy metals and radioactive material can be in there, that this can cause nerve damage and that there is something in there that I can't even pronounce well, mercaptans, which is also very bad for humans and animals. He also says that salt water sounds very innocent, but in salt water all nature and agriculture die. And depending on how much salt you add to drinking water, it's actually impossible to purify anymore. So why does the minister pretend it's almost drinking water with a little bit of something in it? It's just poison, definitely going into the ground in Twente. In the rest of the debate, let us look at how best we can deal with toxic waste water in the Netherlands. That the Minister, who is usually quite factual, is now pretending to be almost drinking water, I find a bit of a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u129	Salt water is not something the subsurface is poisoned with. Salt water comes from that subsurface and then goes back into that subsurface. So what goes into that subsurface is 99.97% salt water. I can't help it either. When I bring out liquid of 1 or 2 kilometers depth, there are many things in it: heavy metals, salt but no doubt also all kinds of other substances. The production water that goes out and the chemicals that are added to it can all be purified above ground. It can also be stored underground. Nor should we pretend that surface purification is nothing at all. You need capacity and energy for that. It's wise to weigh that against injection. Injection happens all over the world. We have been doing this in the Netherlands since 1972. This is currently happening in 19 places in the Netherlands in 24 of those water wells. The water injection in Twente involves production water from Schoonebeek. That's been shut down. An evaluation of what we are doing there was planned in a year and a half. I put forward that evaluation for a year and a half. The evaluation then included an advisory committee of directors from Overijssel and Drenthe, who follow that evaluation completely. On the result of that evaluation I release a second opinion from Deltares to see how Deltares looks at the work that has been done. Then I'm going to discuss the whole thing with the directors in Overijssel and Drenthe. Based on the evaluation, the second opinion, the findings of the guidance committee and the consultation with the directors, I'm going to look at what's best for the future, whether it can be done this way or whether it should be done in an appropriate way. That's how we do it. We don't do irresponsible things. We do things after we have thought it through and decided to do so. We are also constantly prepared to evaluate, on the basis of new developments and new signals on problems that arise, and to see if it can be improved. I am prepared to do so in this case too. Until then, the injection of production water has stopped. Until then, oil extraction in Schoonebeek has also stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u130	Let's say from the study of the guidance committee, you'd better clean up the waste water. Does the Minister think that we should just stop the whole waste water injection until it's settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u131	No, I want to make my own decision. I think that the advisory committee is very important for this. I think the second opinion is important for that. I think that evaluation is important for that. On the basis of this whole and on the basis of the advice that I also receive from my own staff, I will then make a decision. I'm not gonna say I'm following one and not the other. I want to look at the whole thing and have an overall picture. I will then take a responsible decision and answer to it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u132	When does the Minister expect that decision? Is it really a promise from the Minister that until then at least there will be no waste water injection into the soil?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u133	Sure. It's been shut down and it's going to stay that way. I think that at the end of June 2016, or at least in the summer, I will be able to make that assessment. That means that when the Chamber of Recess comes back, I'll have this file ready and I'll be able to inform the Chamber of Recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u134	If that is to take place in the summer and we are all on recess, do we not have the situation that it will be restarted and we are going to talk about it after the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u135	My logic is that, if something gets a great deal of attention from the Chamber and I investigate it and have to take a decision on it, then that decision will first be discussed with the Chamber. After that, such a decision will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mrs Van Tongeren, you have already been in the circle; please be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u137	This waste water injection is about the main point on which I have requested the debate. So I have some questions about the various aspects. I am pleased that the Minister has brought forward the evaluation, but at the moment the NAM is still repairing that lead. She's making a lot of money out there. Is the Minister sure that no plan damage will be claimed by the NAM. She will incur enormous costs to repair that pipe......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u138	The NAM has its own responsibility. I have my responsibility. I'm not responsible for any investments the NAM makes. The NAM has to know what she's doing. I think she also has expertise and makes an assessment of the environmental impact when you start cleaning it above ground and what effect it has when you inject it into the subsurface. She makes an assessment and on that basis she makes a decision. I'll leave that to the NAM. It doesn't affect me and it doesn't affect my decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u139	Okay, so there won't be any claims for plan damage. Is the Minister prepared to take with him the German experience in cleaning wastewater? I just got a text message that 7,000 liters of pure chemicals per day went into the ground in Twente and that the water is three times as salty as seawater. The Germans have said that they do not want to go into the ground because of leakage. They have said that there must be purification. Is the Minister prepared to include the German experience in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u140	Three times as salty as seawater, I'm sure. It's coming up from 1,000 or 2,000 meters deep. As salt as it rises, it goes back. That could be one, two, three or four times as salty as sea water; I don't know. I find it interesting what Germany does. I think that will certainly be looked at as well. I think what we're doing here is very logical. You collect all the information, you're busy in a certain way, but on the basis of signals, you reconsider. You look at how you do it and what the alternatives are. The assessment of this guides you and when she is finished, let others, externals, re-evaluate it. Then, as a driver, you collect all the information, make a decision and talk about it as a parliament. Finally, you do it. That's how it's done. So much for the injection of production water in Twente. In Twente also plays the gas oil storage, the storage of diesel oil. One of the spokesmen spoke about this. The Netherlands has made international agreements on strategic oil stocks, stocks of oil products. All countries participating in the International Energy Agency have agreed to this. The countries of the European Union have also agreed with each other so that, if something happens to the supply of energy, you still have a certain supply. That stock is stored in a certain way. That can happen above ground. There are disadvantages to that. It can also be done underground; there are also disadvantages. We've compared those two possibilities and we've come to the conclusion that underground is the best thing. This is currently happening in several places, including in Twente, where former salt caverns are used. On the basis of the safety reports we have prepared, and the opinions of the SodM, the Twente Safety Region, the Vecht Stream Water Board and the municipalities of Hengelo and Enschede, we have taken a responsible decision. I've already talked about the unstable salt caverns in Twente. Except in Twente, of course, that also plays in other parts of the world. In Twente 64 potentially unstable salt caverns are present. These occurred between 1963 and 1980. That is what we are dealing with now, in the year 2016, in other words. We'll follow that. AkzoNobel, who won salt at the time, follows that, is also obliged to do so and reports on this to the SodM. Then what to do when a threat arises for a particular caverne is considered. One of the possibilities is to fill it up. It's not easy to fill up such a large cavern. For that, you need large quantities. Different materials are eligible for this. One of them is that fly ash, which has been in the picture, and maybe there are other possibilities. If a situation arises that requires a caverne to be filled, we will do so in the most responsible way. I think that's also necessary, because otherwise you can have problems above ground. In addition, it is good that we are talking about fracking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u141	I had also asked why under the Wadden Sea, which is world heritage, salt extraction is still taking place. That salty mass is being ripped off with diesel oil. Millions, millions of gallons of diesel oil come on top of that salty water to cover it. Does the Minister think this is wise? Is there a contingency plan if there's a leak? Is the Minister prepared to consider whether there are any more environmentally friendly techniques for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u142	In general, I say the following. I got a few hundred questions from the spokesmen. I can't answer all those questions at once. When I am working on one answer, all the other spokesmen can say: where are our answers? We're not gonna make much progress. What about what Mrs. Van Tongeren says, I don't know. She talks about using diesel oil to cover something and asks what the risks are and what consideration has been made. I'll have to find out first. I will also check whether the Chamber has ever been informed of this. If that is not the case, I will make sure that the Chamber is informed. Everyone associate fracking with shale gas. That makes sense. The difference between conventional gas and shale gas is that shale gas is contained in some harder rocks and conventional gas in some porous rocks. From these porous rocks the natural gas is released and from the shale, that harder rock, the gas is not so released. When shale gas is extracted, the shale is broken, tiny cracks are made in the rock, and gas is released from it. That gas is called shale gas. However, it is not the case that fracking is only used for shale gas. It is also used for conventional gas extraction. This has been happening since the 1940s. This has been happening in the Netherlands since the middle of the 1950s. Since the 1970s, it has been a standard process in conventional gas extraction throughout the world. However, this fracking goes in a very different way than fracking the extraction of shale gas. In the case of shale gas, much more liquid is pumped into the soil to break the rock. In addition, there are other substances in the liquid that is pumped into the soil. That liquid is 99% water and 1% chemicals. This liquid has a very different composition than the liquid used in the extraction of conventional natural gas. Moreover, for that conventional natural gas, for the porous rock, you need much less liquid. So you can't compare fracking in shale gas extraction with fracking in conventional gas extraction. In the Netherlands, a total of 220 fracks have been used for conventional gas extraction over a period of 50 years. So this is a very small number of fracks, where relatively little production water has been used. I have promised to make the application of this fracking, its possible consequences and its assessment understandable. I asked SodM to collect all these data, to assess them and draw conclusions from them. SodM has done so and stated that "as far as is known, there have been no adverse effects on man and the environment and that the use of fracking for conventional gas extraction can take place in a responsible manner." It continues: "The legal regime, its supervision and the management measures used are sound and sufficient according to current insights." So let's not make any problems where they aren't. There is no major problem here. There's nothing special going on here. It's under close surveillance. I have no reason to deal with it in any other way than I have so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u143	It is indeed a fairly clear report. The Minister indicated that fracking in conventional gas fields is actually not comparable to fracking shale gas. According to the Minister, does that also mean that you cannot translate the conclusions one-on-one into the discussion on shale gas? So we must also keep these two discussions separate in every respect. So you cannot say on the basis of this report that there is no further risk of fracking shale gas or that we can draw the same conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u144	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u145	The report states that there are "as far as known" and "according to current insights" no risks to the environment. Isn't this what the State's surveillance of the mines is doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yeah, that's right. But everything is. We don't know everything. We can't know everything. We can examine and approach everything as best we can, on this basis, make as careful an assessment as possible and draw good conclusions from it. We do that every time. When I make decisions about this kind of thing, I'm not 100% sure that's the best thing. However, I do know that I am very well prepared, that I am well advised, that I think about it and that I am trying to make the most careful decision. But with that, of course, everything is never ruled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u147	That's how I look at it. It is not the absolute certainty and there is a blow to the arm. However, if we know that fracking is also being used to extract the last scraps of gas from a gas field, I understand that I am wondering whether we should want that. If there is a risk, albeit small, because we cannot know things and because we use it for those last scraps of gas, the Christian Union prefers a pass in place. Does the Minister share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u148	We need the gas for now. If I don't get the remains out of the small fields by fracking, I'm gonna have to get it from Groningen. If we don't want to, I'm gonna have to get it from northern Norway. We don't really want to. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to get it from Russia, but we don't really want it. Moreover, if we get the gas from abroad, some of it is also fracked there. This is part of the technology used throughout the world. So we simply need to look at what we can do in the Netherlands in a responsible way. We frack 220 times in 50 years, using a relatively small amount of liquid. The supervisor investigates that he is holding on to the success of the arm that Mrs Dik-Faber rightly mentions and says that he is convinced that there have been no adverse effects here and that the system applied here is solid. I guess we shouldn't make a big deal out of that. There are plenty of problems in the world. We don't have to make any more trouble. That's what I'm saying about fracking. Mrs Van Tongeren asked for a major earthquake that took place in Canada. She wondered whether this could be done in the Netherlands. The SodM eventually concludes in its report that there is a very low chance that fracking will lead to earthquakes here. More generally, I can also say that measuring equipment has been distributed throughout the Netherlands, allowing us to observe every quake of 1.5 or more on the Richter scale. So we can see all over the Netherlands what happens when something is injected or fracked or something is conventionally won. The data on their effects are available to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u149	The Minister has announced that there will be additional research into fracking and shale gas. Why is it necessary to do something extra for that? Or should I just read that in relation to the whole Strong process and is that the research program? In fact, I had understood that the Minister wanted to do additional research on this subject with other European countries as well. Is that really necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u150	I'll be on shale gas in a minute. Then I shall also address Mrs Mulder's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u151	I'm going back to Canada. Knowledge on this subject is fairly new. Twenty years ago, we in Groningen did not know that earthquakes and soil declines had something to do with the extraction of gas. Then people would also have said: we have examined it well and it does not pose a risk. But since development is going very fast, I would like to introduce that Canadian example. The idea in the Netherlands so far is that it can never lead to a major earthquake. This was confirmed by the Meijdam Committee in the hearing. Those committee members said they just couldn't. However, the Canadians have just finished their report and have demonstrated beyond doubt that the 4,6................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You'd have to scratch behind the ears one more time. We also believe, for example, that Boeings are safe. If something goes wrong with a Boeing, then all those Boeings get grounded and are first checked to see if they can get back into the air safely. So that was the question. Is it possible to draw attention to state surveillance here again? Can state surveillance be asked to include those most recent investigations, which now show that there are major tremors due to fracking, in its opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u152	Not all types of fracking are the same. You can frack for shale gas and frack for conventional gas. You can frack many dozens of times at one well for shale gas to get a little bit of gas out. In a country like the Netherlands, where you've been winning huge amounts of gas for 50 years, you can totally frack no more than 220 times with a small amount of liquid. So there are big differences. It is not, therefore, that if something happens in a particular place in the world, you can immediately draw conclusions for the Netherlands, because there may be a very different way of fracking there and in other geological conditions. SodM has to investigate and assess all of this itself. It would be an insult to SodM if I said: take that into account. Of course they take that into account. That's their job. They do all that stuff. If there is new information, we will take it back to ourselves and we will involve it in the decision-making process. We are constantly working on this. This will undoubtedly be the case in this case too. I am convinced that I do not need to remind SodM of an earthquake in Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u153	This research is interesting. It is always said that there is nothing similar to the Groningen field. However, the Canadians have discovered here that in relatively shallow earthquakes, i.e. in the case of lower earthquakes exactly like in Groningen, they have large surface effects. That's another reason why I think this is very interesting. I assume the SodM is listening, so with a bit of luck the SodM itself picks this up. I haven't seen anything from the SodM that refers to this study. The Chamber often asks for things that may be obvious, so to take a look here or there. This has to be seen in the same series. I generally have great appreciation for the SodM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u154	I have a question and the answer to it I actually need for my decision on whether or not to table a motion. I'm going back to Limburg. I'm sorry to do that, Mr. Chairman, but I need to do it. The government's in the middle of an investigation. The Minister is probably going to tell me when that investigation will come up. Does the Minister include in that investigation who was all aware of the rising mining water? In the meantime, many whistleblowers have reported to me that they are people who are not the first to say that the State has been aware of the rising mining water all these years, i.e. since 1974. Other experts on the subject say that toxic carboon water is already present in groundwater. That carboon water seems to be very toxic. This would fall under the government's duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u155	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u156	Can the Minister answer that? Is what I'm saying right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u157	I'm not investigating my predecessors for blackmail. There is a real problem in Groningen and I am working to get it sorted out very well. I'll tell you later what's going on in that investigation. I just want to know what is going on, what we have to take into account and what we can possibly do about it. I would like to make a positive and forward-looking decision on this. I have no desire to be secretive about things that have happened in the past. I'll just share the information, if there is one, with the room. But the investigation isn't aimed at blackbirds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u158	I understand. I'm not after that either. It's possible that all these people are right. That could happen, because they all live in different districts and do not know each other, but they have dealt with the government and governments. If that is the case, then it may well be that the limitation period is completely unjustified. If it really is the case that the government put it all under the table, so of "let's leave it alone, those Limburgers, because it's about to be a statute of limitations," then it would be a different story. That doesn't have anything to do with blackbirds. What if there's increasing groundwater, isn't that a concern of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u159	We know that the groundwater is rising there, of course. My predecessors knew that, too. We would like to have seen the situation as a result of the fact that you have some sort of hole cheese in the soil and the fact that groundwater is rising there. By the way, you first had groundwater at the position I'm indicating, and then the groundwater level was artificially reduced to the level I'm indicating now in order to get the coal out. Sorry about those who have to report on this. In order to extract the coal, the groundwater level has been reduced. When the coal mining was finished, the pumps were stopped. Then the groundwater went back to its original position. There can then naturally be effects in the soil, resulting in problems above ground. We are now examining what problems may arise and what we should do with them. But it is not that the fact that the groundwater is rising or that there were vertical and horizontal holes in the soil has been swept under the carpet. Who would need it? At the moment it is only experienced as a problem. I think it's fair. That's why I'm having it investigated extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u160	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u161	We also have to stop with the blackbirds. But what would it do to anyone? It is possible that the State therefore did not have to pay any compensation, while only stopping the pumps saved millions. So there's a financial case behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u162	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u163	No, Mr President, this is essential, because otherwise I do not know whether or not to make a motion. What if there were no mines underneath? Is it then the responsibility of the government if homes fall due to the rise in groundwater? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u164	I would like to discuss several topics, including coal mining in Limburg. I am now in the process of saying something about fracking, but I am getting an interruption about coal mining in Limburg. That does not seem to me to be the best meeting place. I will go into that further in a moment. I was fracking. That's what I'm trying to wrap up. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked if I am prepared to ban the use of substances that do not comply with the European directive on the use of chemicals, the REACH directive. I'm not prepared to do that because it's already forbidden. Moreover, that prohibition is monitored by the SodM. So that's all taken care of. You could not have read the details of this because you only received the SodM report yesterday, but you can still read that report. I have already said how we look at shale gas. In this cabinet period, I am not going to do anything about shale gas. I've revoked all the permits. Nothing will happen in the next five years in the shale field. However, we are setting up a research programme, looking at what information is available. If drilling takes place, it provides data that is interesting for the understanding of shale gas. We'll get it out. We are also trying to align it with investigations that are taking place in other countries. It may be that we are going to do drilling at some point, but those are scientific drillings, which are not aimed at extraction. These drills then take place on behalf of the government with the intention of extracting factual information which is relevant for possible future decision-making. These drills are not necessarily drilling using fracking. These are drills that look at how the substrate is composed and what is in it. It may be that in such a test drilling fracking is important. In the context of such a drilling, this will happen, but on behalf of the government and focused on collecting information, not on production. I have already said that shale gas is not a priority for me. I also said that I would like to know what we might have to decide in the future, in a positive or negative sense. This is a factual collection of information, which will not lead to commercial drilling or extraction in the next five years at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u165	This, of course, raises my previous question as to what exactly we are going to do with this extra research and why that is necessary. If the usefulness and necessity are not clearly demonstrated at the moment, why does the Minister want to carry out this additional investigation alongside the Strong process? 'Cause that's how I see it. Can the Minister explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u166	It may well be that we have to decide that we should not do it with shale gas. It may also be that there is no shale gas in the soil, or at least not in winable quantities. Then we are also done It may also be that there is shale gas in interesting, winable quantities in the soil. It would then be my line to leave it in and wait and see how things develop. See how the technique develops and see if the situation is such that we also have to look at it again in terms of dependence. All kinds of changes are conceivable in the future, so that decision-making on shale gas will be in a different light in the future than it is at present. It just seems useful to me to collect the information at the moment. I have completely stopped commercial drilling and extraction, but I think that purely factual extraction should take place after this cabinet period. I just want to prepare the file for the moment and put it on the shelf. And if it is considered relevant at some point by a cabinet and a parliament, we can look at it again and see whether or not something should happen with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u167	The estimates of the winable or non-winable gas are quite different. How many of those non-commercial scientific drillings do we have to think about? 'Cause what if that gets out that there's something in there? What are you going to do with that information, if we find together today that we see no point and need for shale gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mrs Mulder may know at the moment whether there is no point and need for it, but I do not think she knows whether there might be any point and need for it in five, ten or fifteen years' time. At least I don't know. It may also be that there is no winable amount of shale gas at all. Then the discussion is over. It seems useful to me now that it is an issue and we have decided not to do it commercially, at least for ourselves as a government to decide what is going on and to collect that information. That also seems to me to be a good thing because other countries sometimes look at it differently. In England, Poland and Germany the information is available. We can also exchange with those countries. On that basis, we can then form an image for ourselves. It just seems sensible to me that you don't stick your head in the sand, that you don't have the ambition to do something with it in the short term, that you don't actually foresee that there is a need and need at the moment, but that you don't exclude that image for some reason or other in the future and that you pre-empt responsible decision-making. I want to do it now. That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u169	There is, of course, a relationship between the Structure Vision Underground and the Mining Act. Suppose, in a structural vision, the Minister identifies once areas in which shale gas extraction is possible, and shale gas extraction as mining activity is not excluded in the Mining Act. Suppose, on 10 January 2021, a company comes to the Minister requesting a permit to make a commercial drilling to shale gas in one of the areas designated in the Strong, what grounds does the Minister have for not complying with that permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u170	I am not pointing out any areas where shale gas can be extracted. We don't know what's in there because we don't have any information because we haven't done any scientific test drilling. We have maps of Europe with certain layers of earth, and then we think that this could be there, and there that. But we don't know what that's really like. That is why there are such large areas that, on the basis of very superficial general information, it is thought that there might be something. The M.E.R. committee has said that everything must be blown up as much as possible to see where conflicting interests can arise in the craziest situations and how policy-making should respond to those conflicting interests. In such a study, it has been said, quite apart from me: let us examine the whole area where there may be something and see how that relates to the extraction of drinking water and all the other interests involved in the subsurface. That's what's going on. I think we can only get a picture of where shale gas may be in winable quantities once we have researched it. Then those areas will be much smaller. Then we know where these areas are, but that does not mean at all that shale gas can be extracted in those areas. A decision must then be taken in which these areas will be designated. If there is then a willingness to let that win, companies can be allowed to do so. But then we'll be a few steps further. First we need to know if it's even there. If it is there, then we need to know where it is and in what quantities. We must then decide whether to do so. Maybe he could win. If that's the case, the fourth step will come. Then a company can come up with a picture that could get a permit for that. This is definitely not the time yet. I do nothing but what I have just described, namely the preparation of internationally coordinated scientific research aimed at gathering information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u171	I understand the Minister's roadmap. I also understand that he points out that this cabinet will have its final date next year and that it will be up to subsequent Cabinets. But this year we are going to have a discussion about the Structure Vision Underground. It may not identify areas, but it excludes areas. You could also choose to exclude shale gas extraction throughout the Netherlands. We have previously discussed what the Minister can do on the basis of the Mining Act if we do not want certain activities. The Minister said that he cannot refuse permits because he does not see any grounds for doing so in the Mining Act. If you then have a Structure Vision Underground in which shale gas extraction is not excluded, if you then have a Mining Act without grounds for exclusion, how can you, as a minister, say to a particular company: I am not taking your permit application for this activity into consideration? What legal basis does he have for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u172	I think that's a useful question. I think I'm gonna write that out real good. On the first occasion that lends itself to this, I shall share it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u173	It would be very nice if at least that could be done for the treatment of the Mining Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u174	In dealing with the Mining Act, I still have no information at all. We may want to draw conclusions about shale gas when dealing with the Mining Act, but perhaps that gas is not there at all. Perhaps at the moment when it is really necessary, in five, ten or fifteen years' time, it is very unfortunate that we have not done that research. This would mean that no responsible decision-making could take place. I do not quite see the relationship between the treatment of the Mining Act and this point, which I said I would write it out. At the moment when we have information available, when we want to complete the dossier, it is important that this is included. It must then be put on the shelf, so that a cabinet and parliament can do so. to emerge in changed circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u175	At the same point. We have two laws, the Environment Act and the Mining Act, and a structural vision. The Minister has said several times in the Chamber: even if I wanted to, I cannot reject certain applications for mining activities because I have no grounds. The Chamber has tried to amend those grounds in the law. The Minister has not yet accepted it. That is what we are going to have the next debate on. The structural vision and the Environmental Act do not give that possibility either, because there is only a balancing framework in it and also no absolute lower limit. The structural vision could give that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u176	It is not the case that there are no grounds for refusal and that the Court must provide grounds for refusal. There are grounds for refusal. We are looking at the possibility of broadening those grounds for refusal. I have already made a proposal to do so, and the Chamber has already spoken about it. I think the point Mrs van Veldhoven has raised is very real. I believe that this is part of the picture of the situation with regard to shale gas and that we should have clarified this. So I have no reservations at all about finding out. Nothing is at issue at the moment for shale gas, because nothing is happening during this cabinet period. The next three years nothing happens commercially at all. All that happens then is scientific research on behalf of the government. In this way we can make a complete package, supplemented by the information that Mrs Van Veldhoven has just asked for. If there is a situation in which this becomes interesting in the future, we have done the preparatory work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u177	One of the statements with which the Minister started this debate was that we had to move on to clean energy. That takes a lot of effort and a lot of time, but we have to go that way. We should be moving towards a whole new infrastructure. This cabinet is still in office for up to a year. In fact, it will not happen at that time, but should you not include the whole point of climate change and the energy transition in one way or another or in the principles of the structural vision? I do not yet see that in the current principles. Nor is it in the Mining Act, nor is it as such in the Environment Act, whereas the Minister and I agree that it is a very important direction we should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u178	I'm not from the school trying to rule out all sorts of things. I don't want to rule out nuclear power. I do not want to exclude gas extraction on the mainland of the Netherlands at the moment. I do not want to exclude gas extraction in the North Sea. Nor am I against gas from Norway or gas from Russia. I'm not against oil from Saudi Arabia or Iran. I want us to have a diverse supply of fossil energy for as long as it is still necessary and to take responsible decisions in the light of the importance of security of supply and affordability in the Netherlands. In the meantime, we must concentrate on the transition to renewable energy. I don't think it's wise at the moment to rule out all sorts of things, including shale gas. On the basis of many exchanges of views in the Chamber, we have decided that there will be no commercial investigations, drilling and extraction during the first five years. I think it is justified to do the preparatory work for data collection in preparation for possible future decision-making at that time. That's about shale gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u179	I appreciate, of course, that the Minister is very careful about all the questions and issues. I would point out, however, that we must conclude this debate today and that there is another minister who is also having a debate, Mr Blok. If the Minister could put it a little pointier here and there, I would be grateful to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u180	Sure. I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u181	Take a look behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u182	It's gonna be very different. Stef, go home quietly, two more hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u183	He's just finishing up, Mr. Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. As I said, the water was pumped out of the soil in South Limburg at the time of coal extraction. The coal was extracted and then the pumps were stopped. Since then, the mining water has risen to the original level. There were reports that rising mining water would cause damage. There were also a few concrete cases that I saw with my own eyes. One was quite remarkable, because there really were great diminutions. I had it checked out, and it showed that those subsidences were caused by something completely different. Anyway, there's some concern. There is also a lot going on in Limburg and that is not without reason. That's why I'm getting it checked out so thoroughly. The research focuses on the effects of the rise in soil, the effects of groundwater pollution, the effects of the increase in groundwater and the effects of the possible release of mine gas as a result of the increase in mine water. Mr Graus spoke about it himself. I will also be asked to investigate whether this could cause minor earthquakes. All the subsidences that can occur at old shafts and through shallow coal mining at the same time we also visualize. TNO has collected, scanned and made accessible all possible maps for that research. A total of 7,700 old maps have been collected and made accessible. Then, on the basis of all that material, we had research done by a specialized German company. That company, the engineering firm Heitfeld-Schetelig (IHS), is now engaged in research and analysis. I believe that the final report can be produced by the end of 2016. Then we have all the information available, information that has been discussed with the region in the second half of the year. We then have an image of all causes, consequences and risks, and then we can talk about them. As far as I'm concerned, we can do that this year. So far, 51 cases have been reported. I call it disrespectful 'falls', but that is not what I mean, because of course it is just people who face damage that they think should be associated with soil movements. Those people reported to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement in 2014, because there was a lot of publicity about it at the time. 41 cases were notified in 2014 and 3 in the previous year. Last year there were 5. Those are the numbers we're talking about. For poignant cases, a provision is made. We have looked at what is to be expected of distressing cases and how much money is needed for this. So far, I have no indications that the money available is insufficient, but if that changes, I will act. It is a provision during the research which will therefore be completed this year and which we will be able to discuss with each other this year. Why did it take so long? I've studied all aspects of the investigation very carefully. What do I want this research to yield and what should be done? I firmly believe it couldn't go any faster than it did. I hope that this will provide an adequate response to the various points raised by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u185	Can the Minister tell me how many poignant cases the investigation has been resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u186	No, I don't have those numbers ready. It's a matter of few cases. They can be counted on the fingers of one hand, but how many exactly are there, I don't know. I am also not prepared for the amounts involved. I will try to make that clear to Mrs Mulder for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u187	Thank you for that. Another question from my group is the question of the limitation period. Years ago, we talked to the Minister about how it works in Germany and discussed that we would like to see it that way in the Netherlands. In the run-up to the new Mining Act, my group needs to know what is going on with that investigation and whether the results are available for the treatment of that law. If not, we may have to get to work on an amendment ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u188	I do not know exactly what Mrs Mulder would like to amend. I would also like to have a better understanding of this limitation period myself. I therefore asked the University of Utrecht to compare Belgian, German and Dutch regulations. How does this regulation relate to each other and what are the aspects of the Dutch regulation? In particular, I asked Utrecht University to make a comparison of what is regulated in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, and to check how these regulations relate to each other. I also asked what the specific aspects of Dutch legislation are. I expect the results of this study to be delivered in April. I'll share it with the room. Then there's more information about the statute of limitations. In general terms, something ages after 20 years. In this case, the legislator has very consciously chosen to apply a period of 30 years. That period therefore applies. There is a possibility of discussing exactly what is the case with regard to this issue. Those who still want to recover damage argue that the limitation period should start when the pumps are stopped. Others say that the limitation period starts at the moment when mining has stopped. This will be further investigated and we will also discuss it further. A second study is under way in which the entire process of stopping the mining water pumps is accurately depicted. It examines what is happening in this area in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. It also examines how this relates to the limitation period. There are two investigations going on to make that clear, in addition to the major investigation I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u189	No, Mrs. Mulder. I call Mr Graus. We're really gonna put a little turbo on it. Mr Graus, brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u190	With the turbo on it or even the twinturbo. Does the Minister consider stopping those pumps a mining activity? In any case, it is an activity linked to mining activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u191	On the basis of the information I have so far, I believe that this limitation period has now taken place. It is not the case that the limitation period is still running, but there are investigations going on and we will see if new information comes out of it. If Mr Graus asks me what I think, then I say that it is a statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u192	This is my last question tonight. I want to know whether or not I should file a motion. I'm entitled to an answer because otherwise I don't know what to do. Is increasing groundwater under the responsibility of the government, under the duty of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u193	I do not know what Mr Graus wants to hear from me. Of course I feel responsible for what is happening in the Netherlands when it comes to mining. If anything is going on in Groningen, I will take the necessary measures there. If anything has to happen in Limburg, so do I. If I don't know exactly what's going on and how it's going to be judged, then I'm investigating it. That's what I'm doing right now. After the investigation is done, I can answer this question and other questions properly. I don't like answering questions before investigations are completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u195	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u196	I have asked almost nothing all evening, but this is very essential for the points we want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u197	Very brief and to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u198	I'm not talking about mines, and I'm not talking about South Limburg. Forget there's a South Limburger here. I just want to know this: is rising groundwater under the government's duty of care? That's the only question I'd like to answer, the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u199	Such a question is not put by Mr Graus without reason. He thinks this is an interesting question. So I also suspect that it is an interesting question. I would like to answer some interesting questions after I have received sufficient information. I don't think I have that information yet. There are three investigations currently under way. I expect the information to be available by the end of this year and then I can answer these questions responsibly. Mr Graus makes no difference if I answered a question in front of the fist, and it turns out that I would have been better to answer that question if I had understood all the information. I prefer to answer such a question when I think it is justified. I now come to some other subjects. I'll start with the North Sea gas. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren said that we are subsidising companies there, and the spokesman for the Animal Party also said something about this. Let's see what's going on there. We have different gas fields in the North Sea, large and small. There's a whole infrastructure of rigs and pipelines built there. Most of the gas is out. Then those rigs and those pipelines will be removed. But in all kinds of small fields in the North Sea there is still a lot of gas that is winable. You don't charge the people of Groningen, Woerden and Terschelling with that. The gas lines and the rigs are already there. In 2010 we already made a scheme to promote the optimal use of small fields as well. If companies invest to make the most of the small fields, they can deduct a quarter of the investment costs from their profits in the first year after they have incurred those costs. The profit share for the State is 50%. This scheme therefore means that the State grants a subsidy of 12.5% of the costs a company has to incur in order to extract that gas. I believe that this is a reasonable concession, which I believe has resulted in some 40 billion cubic tons of natural gas being won over the last six years. At the end of this year, I would be sorry to end this arrangement, to have all the pipes and rigs removed and not to win the gas that can still be extracted in a responsible way and which the State can still make money on. That is why I am trying to find out if I want to extend this arrangement and, if so, in what way. I think I can draw my conclusion in the middle of this year. I'll come to the Chamber with that in the middle of the year. This relates to the period after the end of this year, an extension of the existing scheme whereby companies receive a net allowance of 12.5% of the additional costs they have to incur. One of the spokesmen briefly asked about State surveillance of the Mines. I could say a lot about that, but I don't think I should do that, Mr President, given your reminders in my direction. There's a security and direction bill in front of the Chamber. That's about SodM's independence. I will be very available to the Chamber to deal in depth with the written or plenary examination of this bill. If the Chamber wishes to speak about it now, I am available for that. We have been asked about the various locations where gas extraction takes place. It's a piece on eight. It may not be good if I go into all of them extensively, so I try to come out with two places: the gas extraction at Woerden and the gas extraction at Terschelling. I don't know if gas will be extracted in Woerden. There's a company that can come up with a permit application and a new extraction plan, but I haven't seen any of that yet. If the application is available, I will have to deal with it by the procedure, which is what we have established legal procedures for. I will therefore involve the province and the municipality according to the new rules of the game that we have agreed with each other. I will then have to take a decision, because it is so regulated in a legal procedure that I have to decide on applications. It will then be followed by participation, with views on which I have to take decisions. That's the procedure that's going to take place at Woerden. We have spoken a number of times in the Chamber about the gas extraction on Terschelling. There is actually the same thing as in Woerden for the application that was made. When requests are made, I cannot just say: Terschelling, Waddenzee; I reject that application. No, according to the legal procedure, I have to deal with that application. Then I have to take a stand on that. Follow-up may take place on that point of view. Then I have to respond to the point of view. If the people in the area who feel involved disagree with it afterwards, they can still go to the Council of State. A change in the grounds for refusal is currently under way. On the basis of the upcoming changes that I am discussing with the Chamber, I might wish or refuse something that I would not like to or could not refuse. I am therefore waiting to see what the new legislation looks like on this point. Only when this new legislation is in place will I continue the ongoing procedure on the basis of the new legislation. I can do that. That means that nothing is happening at the moment, in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber. Whether I will then still act in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber will become apparent if I apply the new legal procedure to that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u200	I'm tasting that the minister at both locations, Woerden and Terschelling, says he really needs to stick to the procedures. I have argued on behalf of the Christian Union that the procedures should be much better anchored in the position of citizens and the environment. Soon we will have the debate on the Mining Act. Does that not provide the Minister with sufficient leads to say that he is going to look with new eyes at extraction in such areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u201	Those legal procedures have been established by the legislator, by the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Government. They're made to keep me as a minister. It would be very strange for me to say that it is in the law, but I'm going to do it another way. Of course you can't. I have to act according to that law. That law can be changed. That is what we are working on right now. Where I can anticipate the new law, as I think it will look, I will. What I think I have to suspend things on because it's useful to see what exactly comes out of it, so do I. Within the possibilities I have, I take as much account as possible of changing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u202	We have yet to have that debate, but the Chamber has already said that it would very much like to see the interests of nature and the environment firmly enshrined in the Mining Act. At Woerden also plays the element of bottom descent, to name but a few. All these things are now conditional, but the Chamber wants them to be more at the heart of the decision-making process. The Minister cannot and does not want to anticipate this now, but are these not the starting points for reviewing previously issued permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u203	I think Mrs Dik should realize that the Chamber says "don't" or "stop" at every place that comes into the picture. Whether it's Twente, Terschelling, Woerden, Saaksum or Oppenhuizen, it doesn't matter. Where a location appears, the Chamber says "don't" or "stop." However, it is precisely the intention that we should not go ad hoc from one to another when we take decisions, but that we should stick to the legal procedures. That's what I have to do. I don't have the freedom not to. However, I have the freedom to anticipate when the legislator indicates that things are going to change. However, there is case law for the statement that I can and may do so. I think that in a number of cases I can also stop things until this new legislation is in place. So I use the space that I have reasonably, but I have to stick to the procedures and I would not want to do otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u204	Then I understand perfectly well that, to take these examples, we can give the residents of Terschelling and Woerd a ruling after the new Mining Act has passed through the First Chamber and the Minister can check against that new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u205	Yes. After that, I have to make a decision on the basis of that new law. Then I can't just do anything. I have to look at all the elements in this new procedure and how I can implement them carefully. Then I have to draw my conclusions from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u206	The Labour and GroenLinks groups have tabled a number of amendments on this subject in the past. So I look forward to further discussion on this. For the sake of time, I will not go into my unanswered questions now, but let them come back at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u207	You're too good for this world. Mr Smaling is undoubtedly going to operate in the same spirit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u208	I do not need to answer Mr Fox's questions. If you give me the opportunity, Mr President, I will certainly come back to that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u209	Now that the gas is running out, I get the picture of the empty bottles of chocolate cube upside down in such a rubber set, so that the last leftover could still come out. We are in a similar situation. However, you can also leave the little bits of onshore you still want to win, and win what you still want from the small fields in the North Sea offshore. This affects natural gas benefits, but it also has a positive impact on all those regions, for example in Friesland but also on Woerden, where people are worried about the Groningen story. Isn't that an option to take a lot of unrest out of the country? It might cost you a little money, but we'll get it from somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u210	If I were to do what Mr Smaling wants, I would reduce the extraction of natural gas in Groningen to 12 billion cubic metres or less. Then I would not allow the wind farms in Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe to continue as well as the natural gas extraction in the small fields. But what does Mr Smaling think of this causing unrest in Dutch society? One will wonder how heating, electricity and transport will be guaranteed in the near future if we say 'no' to everything. I can't say no to everything. I have to do two things, as I said at the beginning. As long as fossil energy is still needed, I must ensure that it becomes available in a safe, responsible and affordable way, and I must make the transition to renewable energy. Say "no" to everything when it comes to fossil energy, I find irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u211	It is a bit of thinking without considering the long term, because the gas is also very cheap now. If we were to go to 12 cubic metres in Groningen, you might have a gas reserve available for a longer period of time, which might in the long run also offer a better price. If you look at it that way, the conclusion must be different from the one the Minister is drawing. Then let's leave the small fields for what they are, because a residential area on such a bell in Woerden I wouldn't like to saddle up with a winning of a number of years to empty them anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u212	A "bell" in Woerden? It is important that the small fields on the mainland and on the North Sea together with Groningen provide many dozens of cubic cubic tons of natural gas per year. So if we reduce this drastically and even further than we already do because of the Groningen problem, we will become even sooner than Mr Smaling has described dependent on foreign suppliers. We may have the impression at the moment that that is not a problem, but it may prove to be a problem in time. What can be won in a responsible and safe way in the Netherlands, I do and what is needed in addition, I bring in. Meanwhile, I am working at full power to try to make the transition to renewable energy as much as possible. That is the policy of the cabinet, and that seems to me to be a good thing. I don't think it's wise to say every time a location comes into the picture that it's not supposed to be there. Whether it is Oppenhuizen, Norg, Twente, Woerden, Terschelling or Schiermonnikoog, always say "no" to everything, I find irresponsible. I'll try not to separate the other locations now. The same applies to Wijnaldum, which Mrs Thieme has mentioned. The timing of the decision on the judge's ruling on Urgenda has been requested. I do not think this has anything to do with mining, so I am not going to deal with it until the President encourages me to do so. There has been talk of a one-stop shop for damage caused by unclear causes. In my opinion, we have done well. If there is damage in Groningen, that damage may somehow have to do with the extraction in the Groningen field. Then the damage caused by earthquakes can be reported to the Centre for Safe Living. Damage caused by soil degradation in that area, which is not directly linked to earthquakes but may be caused by natural gas extraction, can be reported to the National Coordinator Groningen. It then takes this into consideration and thus fulfils the one-stop-shop function. I think it's done so well. I have indicated that I will consider whether a window could be available for mining damage in the rest of the Netherlands and whether that would be useful. I have already said that before 1 July I will share my findings on this point with the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke of geothermals. It had heard that a geothermal drilling condition is that it should first be made suitable for shale gas. That's bullshit, as is often said. I am constantly trying to stimulate geothermal energy, to solve problems with it and to make financial and technical provisions for it, but I do not mix that with shale gas. If scientific drillings are carried out on behalf of the government that are aimed at shale gas, I find it useful to see if such drilling can provide you with data on geothermal energy immediately. We should not fail to do so, but we are only talking about drilling which is carried out by the government. Mrs Mulder says that separate geothermal projects should be able to learn more from each other. She has an important point. We're in the beginning with geothermals. Especially gardeners stick their necks out great for that and perform very well. Various gardeners and others are working on this. We are now looking at ways in which, together with the industry and the companies that supply the technology, we can speed up knowledge development and make the data and information from these projects accessible to everyone. Maybe we can do that by forming consortia in which these different projects are put together. That's in full play. Mrs Mulder asked if I could update on the CO storage under the North Sea. Then I should go into the ROAD project a little more extensively. I'll try to avoid that. I have already discussed with the Chamber that it is the intention to take a decision on this matter this year and that I am fully involved with the European Commission and with other countries. I'll bring that back to the Chamber at the right time, but I'm gonna leave that update for now. There is no reason for me at the moment to intervene in the extraction of gas and salt under the Wadden Sea. That is what we have agreed on exactly what we are sticking to. There are no new developments, so I will not go into them in detail now. Mr Smaling talked about the nimby effect: do you think all this fear of the citizens of underground activities is a bit of a nimby effect? I think that is to some extent the case, but I think that is quite normal. If something happens in your immediate surroundings that benefits a very large group, but harms you and your immediate surroundings, I find it perfectly normal that you give that disadvantage extra attention and also seek recognition for it. It's part of the job. We must strike a responsible balance between that interest of the people in the immediate vicinity and the public interest. There's a certain amount of nimby effect in it. However, I do not think that this is negative, but useful for responsible consideration and responsible decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u213	I have a question about the previous point. As I said, the government has given the Wadden Sea the title of World Heritage Wadden Sea and the bottom of the Wadden Sea is falling faster than the models indicated in advance. I will save the Minister the specific places and quantities, but if we cannot discuss that tonight, when would it be a good time to do so? After all, that decline goes on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u214	Dwindling is taking place to some extent. We knew that when we were going to do it. We have set limits to this. Each time a decision is needed on salt extraction or gas extraction in the area, this is preceded by m.e.r. studies. It is also agreed with the area. Only then will that decision be taken. We are sticking to the framework conditions that are agreed upon. I have no reason to say that something is happening there that we had not anticipated or expected, but if the Chamber wishes to speak separately about what is happening in the Wadden Sea, then we should consider whether my colleague from I and M should do so or whether I should do so. But, of course, the Cabinet is available to discuss this with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u215	It'll be more I and M, I think, but that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u216	This is again one of many subjects in which one minister grants the permits and monitors the other minister, so it is actually part of both. It has been said that gas would be extracted by hand on the crane. The same applies to salt extraction. Now there is a faster bottom descent than has been agreed, than the models predicted in advance. Then I wonder which minister I should report to first of all to ask whether we should take a look at this and secondly when this gas extraction will stop. At I and M it is said: Minister Kamp and the SodM are about gas extraction; they are the only ones who can say that gas extraction has to stop and that it is true that there is a slightly faster bottom drop than agreed. Hence my question. I would also like to see it dealt with in writing, after which there will be a joint debate with both ministers. That seems to me to be a waste of their time, but that issue needs to be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u217	I do not think there is any reason for this, but it is up to the Chamber to decide what it sees as a reason to exchange views with the cabinet. The chamber must never be sent from the locker to the wall. Either we do it together or I do it alone. I'm just available to talk about the things the Chamber wants to discuss. We'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u218	On March 24th there is an AO Wadden at I and M. I'm just gonna take it out of my head. I could be wrong for a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u219	I'd like to talk about the nimby effect. It is interesting to talk about this; this can only be done briefly. Isn't everything pretty much nymby in this country at some point? It's a country with a small surface and a lot of people. The batter is so large both above ground and underground that you are at some point at the limit. Whatever you may need from minerals or whatever to keep it running here, you have to get from elsewhere. Does the Minister also see that at some point you reach such a point and then you have to consider whether in all those villages or an island like Terschelling you are going to seize the nature, the surroundings, the subsoil, when it really is no longer possible, because there is simply no longer any rack in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u220	It is always a matter of being able to do so safely and contributing to an assured and affordable energy supply in the Netherlands, against the backdrop of the transition to renewable energy. Whether it can be safe and whether the risks and disadvantages associated with it outweigh the fact that if you do it differently, you bring money abroad and to some extent make you dependent on abroad, must be weighed every time you make decisions. I do not want to say in advance that we are not going to win gas from any small field in the Netherlands because we know that there are always people around who are worried about it and who do not want gas to be extracted there. I don't think that's wise. That doesn't fit in with our laws and regulations either. That's not how I'm gonna approach it. That will not happen in this cabinet period. I'll follow the rules. I will also consider the different interests every time. That's the best way to do that. That's my belief. I may look at it differently than Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u221	Does that mean the Minister will continue until the last cub is won? I do want to have a clear picture of the line. Is it "up is up" and then we're dependent on imports? Or do we consider, before we reach that moment, that the rack is apparently out? Because we have had cheap gas all these years, we have an energy-intensive industry in the Netherlands and because of all those ports we also have a large transport sector. So a lot of that 86% in 2020 is simply because of our location and our stocks. That does require you to take the step to the new system at some point. I hear the Minister saying that he is going to the last cub and that it is only then, unfortunately, that it is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u222	There were two changes in the debate. Mr Smaling said that in eight years' time we will be dependent entirely on gas from abroad. I myself said that in a period of three or four years between 2013 and 2016 we have 12 billion fewer natural gas revenues on an annual basis. There are major developments going on right now. We have already halved the production of natural gas in Groningen by the year 2013. So there's a lot going on, but I think you should win everything you can win at sea or on land in a safe, responsible way. That consideration also stands against the alternative, namely that you buy it abroad. You then bring the money abroad and you also create a certain degree of dependence. That consideration needs to be made, and I just want to make it every time, with the background that I think you should win everything you can safely and responsibly win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u223	By the way, how much longer does the minister think he'll need? This is just for our schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u224	I know I'm with you on borrowed time. So I'm just gonna talk until you break me down. If you'll let me do my job, I think I'll be a long way in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u225	I appreciate that, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u226	Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Bosman and Mrs Mulder spoke about the increase in value. I can't make the appreciation scheme more beautiful than it is. We had a five-year budget available for Groningen. A scheme has been set up which has resulted in all the money being spent in two years. Right now, there's no money left. I can't spend money that isn't there. So I'm gonna have to see if extra money can be made available. The next opportunity for this is the discussion of the Spring Note in the Cabinet and then here in the Chamber. I'm in the process of preparing for that. We need to see if extra money can be made available, and if so, how best to use it. My intention was to link that to the renovation of homes that are going to be reinforced to zero-on-the-meter houses. The Chamber said: "Don't do that, go ahead with the old arrangement instead." That is on the table, and it may lead to something at or after the Spring Note, but at the moment I cannot make commitments that I do not have money for. Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the independent research programme on gas extraction. There is a whole story to tell about how we are going to set up an independent research programme with universities and so on and that I will come back to that in the course of the year, but I will also do so on another occasion. Mr Vos has raised a number of points that I may not have answered. Of course, Mr Vos can ask anything he wants at any time, but those questions have already been raised in a legislative proposal currently before the Chamber. There are currently some legislative proposals in the Chamber, some in the Upper House and some in the Lower House. These relate to amendments to a bill on offshore safety, which Mr Vos and other spokesmen have put in place. That then came to the First Chamber, which held it up until I came up with a novella which deals in particular with the reversal of the burden of proof. That novelle is currently in the Lower House. In addition, I have come up with a legislative proposal to deal with this extension of the grounds for refusal on the basis of the report of the Research Council for Security. That bill is also in the Lower House. Written questions were asked during the examination of all these legislative proposals. I'll go into that. Mr Vos has now asked some of these questions again. Perhaps it is acceptable to him that I should answer those questions in the procedure as I have just described them. If that is not the case, I shall now deal with these questions. Mr Vos also spoke about Saaksum. This is the same as what I have just said in general terms. The same goes for Woerden. Mr Vos said that he felt that all Natura 2000 sites should be excluded from extraction. In any case, we must take account of the special status of areas in decisions on mining, but it is wise to make full consideration of different interests in these decisions on mining. I consider the importance of nature to be very important, but also the importance of responsible storage of production water. I also think that the importance of gas extraction is real. All kinds of things that play in that background, you have to weigh against each other. You need to see if they can be combined in a responsible way. That's why we're making this Structure Vision Underground. I do not think it is wise to exclude certain areas in this structural vision from the outset. It is much better to do so only after consideration on the basis of that structural vision. That is why I do not choose to take decisions ahead of this process, as has been suggested by Mr Vos. Mr Vos also spoke about the wetlands. He said that you should at least make certain statements about that now. However, it is quite conceivable that, if you win water at 600 meters depth, with below it an impenetrable layer of a few hundred meters and below it again porous rocks from which you have extracted gas, you can use porous rocks for material storage, for example, from production water, while there is no risk for the drinking water above it. You need to see if that's true. If there are risks, you shouldn't, but if you can in a responsible way, I think you should consider it. It seems to me that every time, on the basis of these investigations and on the basis of these structural visions, this should lead to decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u227	I'm still making one final plea tonight for the importance of water. In the Netherlands, Tulip Oil is currently repairing a so-called "unpermeable" layer. So it's not that impenetrable. The Minister says, "Maybe we can do it." However, there is already one example of this in the Netherlands, which is the example that I know in any case of an 'impenetrable' layer which is ultimately permeable. Does this still not give the Minister any reason to consult, for example, with the water companies and thus raise the importance of water on the list? After all, one such problem in a groundwater bearing layer and you will never get it right again. I think we just established it: a little bit of pollution in a large amount of water, and all that water is useless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u228	There is, of course, plenty of consultation with the water companies about the Structural Vision Underground. Once all the pre-work has been done and it leads to conclusions, they will be involved again. Then, if you have all the information, you can see where your risks are, whether or not you find those risks acceptable and, if you do not find them acceptable, where you do not want to combine certain functions and where you absolutely want to keep them separate. I'll leave that completely open. It may well be that we will go very far in protecting the water. I can imagine that very well, but on the basis of the preliminary work we are currently working on, the preliminary work that has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u229	I'm glad to hear that the water companies are being thoroughly involved. I am in contact with some of the water companies that think that it can be a little more intensive than they have thought so far. It's very nice to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u230	Anyone who serves a particular interest thinks that he should constantly sit in the front row and that exactly what is in his interest should then be done. However, as a government, we need to look at all the interests in this type of structural vision, see whether there is a combination of interests and, if it is not possible, see how these interests can be separated and how we can ultimately achieve the best integrated decision-making. That is the difference between the government and organisations that stand up for a particular interest, however important it is, as in the case of drinking water supply. I have talked extensively about Twente, as I say to Mr Vos. This also applies to Limburg and Terschelling, which he has gone into. I think I have had the points made by Mr Vos. Mr President, let me take a quick look at whether I have anything left of the spokesmen. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about complex damage in Groningen. Last year Mr Vos asked me for a ruling on this. I promised him that NAM would handle all these complex cases by the end of the year. That's what the NAM did. In a small number of cases, less than ten, in my opinion real offers from the NAM are not accepted. In one way or another, it will have to be decided through the courts. However, all these cases have been dealt with. New cases of complex damage come under the direct treatment of the National Coordinator Groningen. The same question was raised this time not by Mr Vos but by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u231	I ask the Minister to address reports in various media about injecting toxic waste water into the Groningen Field. I don't think the Minister has yet gone into that, or I haven't been paying attention. I asked you to do that. There is a lot of concern among the people of Groningen. I would like to address that concern today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u232	Those messages are bullshit. There is no intention to inject production water into the Groningen field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u233	I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u234	I drew the Minister's attention to a number of complex cases, but also to the distressing situations of people trapped in their homes because they cannot sell their homes, for example: a lady is admitted to a nursing home, her home has been on the market for four years and she is therefore facing heavy burdens. I also got an e-mail from someone with a property that's been on the market for six years. Maybe everyone here got that e-mail. That place is way too big, but people can't leave. Their kids have been out of the house a long time. These people have pretty high housing costs and want to get rid of their homes, but it just doesn't work. Where can these people go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u235	With recognition of the problem in Groningen, which is very real, I would say that there are other places in the country where that occurs. Houses are for sale everywhere for various reasons. That is also the case in the north of the country. In the north of the country houses are bought up in a number of poignant cases. The NAM has done so directly, but it has also been done through the committee dealing with poignant cases. We are currently considering whether we can come to an arrangement, so that in cases where people are not responsible for selling a house, and which has very unpleasant consequences, we can react with the form of buy-out, even more so than is the case at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u236	Can the Minister outline when this will be clarified? What can I say to these people? Who can they address? When will there be clarity in their situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u237	If you admit something, there are a lot of people who say: then we want it too, because our property is not for sale for six years, but for five years and our property is not too high priced or poorly maintained, but it is the natural gas production. You'll end up in a difficult discussion. At the moment, people who find themselves a poignant case can register. They can also be notified. Those cases are considered by a special committee. That committee has the opportunity to say that it believes that a particular house should be purchased. That's what's gonna happen. We are considering whether this could be further extended in the context of a slightly broader buy-back scheme which should lead to the housing market operating there as in similar other parts of the country. When exactly that leads to a conclusion, I cannot say that. Maybe I'll come back to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u238	Fortunately, the Minister has answered a lot of questions, for which I am grateful. I have two outstanding questions on two motions for resolutions. One motion concerns the flat extraction which the Minister also seeks in Groningen. I wonder what agreements have been made with NAM, the Gasunie and GasTerra to achieve this. The other motion is about the contours and the damage handling that goes with it. I have also raised a question about the problems of people with weak soil. When is the Minister going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u239	When Mrs Mulder talks about problems with weak land, she refers to people who believe that they have suffered damage as a result of soil degradation caused by natural gas extraction. These cases can be notified directly to the National Coordinator Groningen. Mrs Mulder says that I also believe that flat mining should take place. We have examined two possibilities. One possibility is fluctuating extraction and the other is flat extraction. I have not decided on fluctuating extraction on the basis of advice from the Council of State. We are going to do 27 billion m of flat mining for the current year. A lot has been said about that with the Chamber. For the period from 1 October, decision-making will take place in September on the basis of a new extraction plan to be submitted by the NAM. We will have to wait for that decision. Mrs Mulder's third question was about the contours. I find the contour map very interesting, but I do not care about it when dealing with earthquake damage. Whether inside or outside a contour, if the damage is caused by earthquake, earthquake caused by gas extraction, that damage must be compensated by the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u240	Thank you for the Minister's clear answers. I'll come back to the flat mining. It is also necessary for us to use our gas storage in the summer. What does this mean for the area underneath? How are you gonna shape that? Can we expect more clarity in the September decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mrs. Mulder is referring to the gas extraction at Norg. She says that it has negative effects for that area again if you have a good fluctuation in what you store in the bottom. It may have a positive effect on the area as a whole, but for that area it will have negative effects. I think that this is a real point, which should be reflected in the consideration that needs to be made. I'll take care of that, too. Mrs Mulder said she had three more questions and I answered the rest. So I'm so rude to browse through it as fast as I can. I have answered Mr Bosman's questions on heat. We are fully engaged in stimulating this on the basis of the heat vision we have established and the new Heat Act that is under development. We also talked about geothermals. I would like to return to the independence of the SodM in dealing with the bill in the Chamber. I've gone over the appreciation scheme. I've made the connection to the spring note. I have also addressed Mr Vos's questions. Mr President, I promised that I would need another 15 minutes. If you look at the clock, you'll see I've done it in exactly 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u242	Close to the second, but at the end you started smuggling a little bit and you slowed down to reach exactly fifteen minutes. I'd like to ask you all a favor. There are some spokesmen and a minister outside. They will have to have a little debate today because it will have to be voted on tomorrow. That should be done in ten minutes, because it has only one and a half speakers. So, with your permission, I would like to interrupt this debate for a moment and give the opportunity to Minister Blok and both spokesmen to say something, so that they can be outside in ten minutes and go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u243	As far as PVV is concerned, that is an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-02-tweedekamer-9.u244	I'm sure you speak on behalf of the entire Chamber, as always. You can now make a sanitary stop and have a drink and then we will continue with the debate.
