ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a debate on the influence of the French on KLM. In that debate, the Minister of Finance called on the Chamber in his own way not only to look at the problems arising from Air France, but also to look at other competitors. He referred to Middle East companies. Eight aviation workers' trade unions in the Netherlands have apparently heard this call well. At the end of last week, the announcement was published that they will be warning against the emergence of the companies Emirates, Qatar Airways and Etihad. My first question to the Secretary of State is: did she know about this initiative of the Dutch trade unions and have she been in contact with them about this? My second question is: does the Secretary of State think it is a good thing or a bad thing that the trade unions want to warn passengers to fly with these airlines because this will cost the Netherlands and Europe jobs? Does the cabinet share the urgency with the unions? In the words of the cabin crew: is it also five to twelve for the cabinet? That brings me to my third question. There are a lot of different opinions about whether Middle East carriers compete unfairly with, for example, KLM and, if so, how exactly. Can the Secretary of State clarify again what indications are there for unfair state aid and what evidence is there for that? There are, after all, different evidences from both sides to prove the other wrong. Or do we measure by equal measure? My final question is: how does this relate to and how does it translate into the Action Agenda Schiphol? When is it finally coming to the Chamber? D66 strongly supports fair competition and a level playing field for global aviation. The appeal of trade unions to the European Union to impose restrictions on companies from the Middle East seems to be at odds with fair competition. I would like to know what the Secretary of State's opinion is on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to echo your own words and the words of the Prime Minister in your home, who has been horrified not only by the events in Brussels, but also by his sympathy for the victims and relatives. It goes without saying that what has happened, among other things, on Zaventem has a major impact on the aviation sector, which we are now discussing. This applies not only to Belgium, but to the whole of Europe. I now come to the question raised by Mrs Belhaj about competition between airlines here in Europe and companies from the Gulf States, for example. This is a subject on which we have often discussed with the Chamber. Over the past month, several letters from me have come to the Chamber. The bottom line is that I understand in my own right the concerns expressed by the trade unions for maintaining employment in the European aviation sector. First of all, we can do a great deal about this by giving Schiphol a strong competitive position. This is linked to the agenda for action which I hope will come to the Chamber at the end of April. An airline can do much about this by ensuring that it is competitive and reduces costs. We will also have to ensure that in the future there will be mandates to enable negotiations with the Gulf States, including the fair competition component, as it is called, fair competition. We have many discussions on this at European level. That is what we intend to do. There has been a long discussion as to whether some of these airlines from the Gulf States are actually competing fairly, but the hard evidence that Mrs Belhaj is asking for to this day is not there. There have been investigations, for example from American airlines. On the other hand, there are defences from the airlines that are being called into question. We have already submitted this to the European Commission from the Netherlands, because we believe that this should also be seen by the Commission in working towards a mandate, where fair competition for the Netherlands should be a very important starting point. There has been no contact with the trade unions about the initiative they have taken and we have not been familiar with it in advance. I recognize some of the requests they make, in particular to make fair competition a starting point for European policy. If it had been a motion, I would have said that this is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u3	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers, but one question keeps coming back. The Secretary of State refers to the European Commission, which has to do research. But at some point, you're also wondering how much longer that can take. There's just reports. The facts can be placed next to each other and then indicate what the Netherlands thinks about it. Those reports are a bit thick, but I think the Ministry can do just fine. If the European Commission takes longer, it will take a little longer, but the question of whether, and to what extent, there is unfair competition creates a great deal of unrest among staff. Every month that there is no clarity about that, you actually stimulate that anxiety. Then it is even necessary to start this action. I would therefore ask you once again: is there not a possibility of putting together what the Middle East companies claim as counter evidence and what is in the American reports and seeing what is or is not true of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would like to say that this is exactly what we have put before the European Commission. We want people to look at the reports. Honesty commands us to say that it will be very difficult to actually come to evidence in this context. The other way around, it is now the most important thing for us to start negotiations very quickly, with fair competition, which is fair competition, as the starting point for the European Commission. That is why the fastest step we can take to make real progress on this dossier is to create a mandate. The Netherlands has a real interest in this, and that is what we are driving on all sides in the context of our Presidency. We are, of course, dependent on the 27 other Member States. This really needs to be settled at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u5	So I can conclude that many people need to remain concerned for the time being, as long as the European Commission does not clarify it. Perhaps I could ask the Secretary of State if, in response to these actions by so many people, she could make a small appeal to the European Commission to clarify when it completed the investigation? Then it is clear to the people at least when there will be clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'm willing to do that. I believe that this should go hand in hand with the formulation of the negotiating mandate that the Commission is currently working on. On this point, too, we in the Presidency have made every effort to make it possible to do so quickly. We would prefer to decide on this during our presidency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u7	We have spoken before about unfair competition. This often concerns the question of whether there is unfair State aid. Can the Secretary of State state state whether this discussion also looks at decent working conditions for the staff of such airlines? I am thinking of the salaries, but also of the other working conditions. Within Europe, we often see phony structures in the case of prize fighters. Is that part of the negotiations, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u8	Ultimately, the debate on the precise content of the mandate will also have to clarify the scope of the passage on fair competition. That will have to be a political weighting. In any case, it is obvious that we should at least look at issues such as state aid. That has always been the subject of debate. When you include working conditions, it becomes a lot more difficult, because of course competition is also taking place within Europe. It is a matter of the internal market. It will not be easy to include this discussion in this debate too. Within a few months, when we discuss that mandate, it will be clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-6.u9	That brings us to the end of Question Time.
