ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	It's about a continuation. We will continue with the government's first-term response. I assume the first term of the Chamber was completed yesterday. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs to answer the questions. I would also like to welcome Members and officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The law is also called the Fraud Act, a law which tightens the sanctions for breach of social security laws. Today we are talking about this, for example because of a ruling of the Central Appeals Council of November 2014 in which for the first time that law has been decided and the Penalty decision social security laws based on it. The essence of that ruling was that the amount of the fine in the event of breaches of the information obligation, i.e. the information to be passed on to benefit institutions, must always be aligned with the seriousness of the offence, the degree of culpability of the offender and the circumstances of the offender. The Centrale Raad van Beroep claims that high fines require a more intrusive assessment of the principle of proportionality. Furthermore, no higher fine can be imposed than the maximum fine that the criminal court can already impose for fraud involving social security benefits. This is an important statement with far-reaching implications for the practice of implementation. Since then an implementation practice has developed which, of course, "happy" you should say "happy" is in line with the ruling. The UWV, the Social Insurance Bank and the municipalities impose lower fines on offenders of this type of information obligations than before. But we have also had a regular exchange of views on the implementation practice and the bottlenecks surrounding the Fraud Act. The Chamber also gave its opinion on this in the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion. In addition, in his report No fraud, the National Ombudsman outlined a number of situations concerning the strict application of the Fraud Act which had not been envisaged by the legislator. These are situations in which people are subject to very high fines without intent or debt. I think that's undesirable. Fines are not an end in themselves and must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offence, the degree of culpability and the circumstances of the person concerned. The UWV, the SVB and the municipality will have to assess the appropriate amount of fines in the event of a specific breach of the information obligation. The present legislative proposal and the amendment of the Penalty Decision lay down the ruling of the Central Appeal Board and responds to a large part of the Ombudsman's recommendations and the wishes of the Chamber laid down in the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion. The amendment of the Fraud Act and the Penalty Decision leaves unchanged that the government's starting point is and continues to be that fraud should not pay. The imposition of fines is justified in the event of a culpable breach of the obligation to provide information. This also sends out a clear signal to the many well-intentioned citizens who comply with the law. That is also at the heart of the discussion. We want to maintain the support of our social security system. We all pay taxes to ensure that people without work get a decent income in welfare. That can only happen if those who cheat the place suffer the consequences as well. But it is never meant, at least in my view, to charge people who are wrong, who are clumsy or who are just too late with towering fines, because then we are talking about bullying citizens instead of tackling fraudsters. I think this bill will restore balance. I hope to convince the House of that. The idea behind the Fraud Act that fraud should not pay and that too much benefit should therefore always be paid back remains valid. I think that's right, too. The same applies, moreover, to the more severe punishment of repeated crime. You may be wrong, but in case of recidivism, punishment is more severe. That is the case in criminal law and, as far as I am concerned, rightly so in the administrative process. The SP asked if the whole tightening up is necessary to combat fraud. It is precisely from the point of view of solidarity that you must be strict with people who abuse social services. Citizens need to be able to trust that only those who actually need these facilities will be able to make use of them. Abuse of social security affects that trust. If you've ever seen and heard examples of that, you can feel it. I think we all have sympathy for those who are eager to work but cannot get to work. However, examples of people who fraud with benefits are detrimental to the feeling of justice. That is why it is important that we are strict on this point. Mr De Graaf asks whether a strict Fraud Act remains after the law has been amended. That's a fair question. The answer to that question is quite clear, yes. It's still a strict law. The sanctions regime is considerably stricter than in the period prior to the entry into force of the Fraud Act. In the past, the fines that could be imposed were sometimes made too laughing. On the basis of the proposed amendment of the law, fines of up to 100% of the amount of disadvantage will remain possible. It is still necessary to pay back the benefits unduly received. The recovery period has been extended from five to ten years and this remains unchanged. So one can look back over a period of ten years. Relapse can be punished by a fine of 150% of the amount of disadvantage; that does not change either. Furthermore, it remains unchanged that fines or debts cannot be cancelled. In short, I think it remains a strict law for the real fraudsters, for those who screw around. The citizens who have met Kafka, because they have made a mistake and because of this they have just passed on information too late. Unfortunately, we have seen very serious examples of this. This is in line with the sense of justice in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Indeed, we all share the view that genuine fraud must be tackled in order to avoid undermining solidarity. The other side of the story, which the Ombudsman and the performers also point out, is that solidarity is also undermined if non-frauders are hit very hard. That creates distrust of the government. I ask the Minister to reflect on that. These facts are not affected by this bill. The Ombudsman notes that in particular the non-frauders are affected by these measures, while the fraudsters, the big fish, remain out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	That is precisely why I have submitted this bill to the Chamber and I am defending this bill here. On the basis of this legislative proposal, it will soon be possible not to impose very high fines on the citizen who made a mistake or transmitted information too late. I have tabled this proposal precisely because of the lack of justice. There is a sense of justice when people see around them that people are cheating with social security. That immediately removes the basis for joint funding. However, there is also a sense of justice when the government describes people as fraud when they are not. That has very serious consequences. That is precisely why I mentioned the examples put forward by the Ombudsman. In my view, the law was never meant for that. The government shouldn't be like that either. The government must be strict on those who deserve it, but it must not treat those who do not deserve it as fraudsters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	The amounts of fines have been adjusted, but it remains to be seen that, for example, people may still be fined 25% of the amount of disadvantage in the event of failure to provide information in good time. The Ombudsman says that this law, regardless of the amount of the fines, affects precisely the non-frauders. The practitioners say that those who do commit fraud, for example by getting lighter penalties through criminal law, will get away with it. The Minister doesn't do anything about that. I ask the Minister to respond to a number of suggestions we have made on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	I will, of course, respond to all these suggestions. There are also amendments and I am passing through the insertion of the various parties, but I am not suggesting nothing to extend the possibility of warning which was very limited in the old law. If you find out that you didn't pass something on properly and report it yourself in good time, then there is no need to impose a fine. I consider this to be an important concession, especially towards the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	On this very specific point, if I read it correctly, this applies only if the amount of disadvantage does not exceed €150.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	No, it is so that within 60 days... €150 is so little that a warning can be given. If you report it yourself within 60 days without an administrative authority having detected fraud, it may also be a higher amount. Then that warning can be used, but you have to report it yourself, in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	Then it's not limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Then there's no limit. That is the answer to Mrs Schut's question yesterday. If you've been working black for years and you report it, will you get away with a warning? The answer to that is no. You have to report it yourself before the benefit agency finds that there is fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's a very special point. On the one hand, the legislative proposal and also the written round state that there are two cases in which warnings can be given, in case of self-reporting and in case of a limited amount of disadvantage. Those are two different situations. There is no restriction in the law at all. If not this minister, but a next minister says: I really want everyone who reports themselves, without any limitation, not to be fined, then this can be regulated by lower regulation. Then the legislator is no longer involved. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think it's a bit of a strange case. We are talking about a carefully claused possibility, which was necessary because the current law does not allow enough room to take account of what we all consider to be circumstances that call for reasonableness. This will be limited and will then have to be filled in in lower regulation. Now Mrs Schut turns that situation around and says: Suppose there would be a completely different minister, that's something you have to take into account, no matter how annoying that is, and suppose it's a worse minister, you have to take that into account, understandably, but also annoyingly, what could happen? In my view, we should now talk about the adjustment that I am proposing here, which is necessary to bring the balance back and bring justice back into the system. It's always gonna take toughness. I have just mentioned to Mr De Graaf three, four examples which are equally important for the VVD. You can see that the sharpness of the Fraud Act stands. I think that we should also establish this with each other, and if we do not establish that, then the Central Appeals Council will do so because the old law was too strict on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	But surely you could have chosen to say that we already have a possibility of warning in the law? It was already there. You could have explained them more broadly in lower regulations. I thought you might as well have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, I couldn't have done that. I will deal with this in a technical sense when I come to the warning, but the possibilities we are creating now were not under the old legal regime. I will show this and hope to be able to obtain the support of the VVD for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	D66 and the CDA inquired about the chance of getting caught in connection with the Fraud Act. The purpose of the Fraud Act is to increase both the probability of taking and the effectiveness of the punishment. When submitting the old law, reference has been made to research which shows that the effectiveness of punishment is inter alia related to the speed of punishment, the chance of taking action and the consistency. Also, by focusing on sanctions in the information field, the perceived probability of taking action is increased and the preventive effect is increased. The Fraud Act is only about the sanctioning regime, but it does aim to contribute to all these issues and must therefore also be considered in the wider context of government enforcement policy. The Fraud Approach by File Links Act was more specifically aimed at increasing the chances of getting caught. For example, utility data is used to detect possible frauds. Car ownership data can be used to detect possible frauds. That's gonna magnify the odds of getting caught right away. In addition, there is a psychological effect of a lot of information on sanctions, which increases the perceived probability of taking action and improves the behaviour of people. It's preventive. D66 and the CDA asked what is now possible in the field of file links aimed at tackling fraud, i.e. in addition to what is already possible. There's a lot possible. Municipal social services, the UWV and the SVB have a lot of data to determine the entitlement to benefit or the amount of benefit. I have just mentioned that data on car ownership and property are important for this. The Rijksdienst voor het Wegverkeringen and the Kadaster also share this data with the UWV, the SVB and municipalities. The municipal social service, the UWV and the SVB also exchange information on current benefits. Data from the Education Executive Service, the DUO, on study are also involved. There are also periodic file links to determine whether someone is still entitled to a benefit. This includes in detention name, income tests and property tests. I come to speak more specifically about the mistakes and the small mistakes. The Socialist Party and the Christian Union have asked questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have another question on the previous point. The Minister says: what can we do with file links? That is an important element. However, we also, of course, still simply have the enforcement capacity of our implementing bodies. Can the Minister say what has been done there in recent years to increase the chance of the group that is really at stake, who is deliberately cheating on us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	That is indeed also a button that is important for the chance of getting caught: the more enforcement, the more likely you are to run into the lamp. In recent years, this has been difficult under tight budgetary conditions, no misunderstanding about it. We have been able to do something about this from our side with united forces. Municipalities have made their own choices. With the new Work and Security Act, not so much the chance of fraud has been reduced in the WW. That's gonna be a lot of mistakes and fraud, and so it's gonna cost a lot, including enforcement costs. If Mr Van Weyenberg is trying to point out that the amount of enforcement capacity is also important for the chance of getting caught, then he is absolutely right. That's just one of the buttons. At the request of the SP and the Christian Union, I will address the phenomenon of mistakes and minor errors. I have just said a few things about this in an interruption. In principle, anyone who commits an infringement of the intelligence obligation will receive a fine or a warning. The amount of the fine is related to the amount of the disadvantage and the degree of culpability. In the case of fraud involving small amounts, therefore, smaller fines are also imposed. In case of large amounts, above €50,000, the public prosecutor will be called in. The ruling of the Central Board of Appeal has made explicit distinction in intent, gross guilt and all other cases, whether or not with reduced culpability. Only in the case of intent and debt can the fine of 100% and 75% of the amount of disadvantage be imposed. In all other cases a fine of 50% is in principle imposed. In case of reduced culpability, 25% may be involved. As a result, the imposition of fines has been more weighted than in the old regime and it does more justice to the reasons for violating that obligation of information. In addition, the possibility of imposing a warning in the legislative proposal is extended to small-value offences. Previously, it was only possible to give a warning if there had been no harm at all. In addition, the administrative body shall not impose any administrative penalty in so far as the offence is not to be blamed on the offender. It is up to the offender if he considers that there is no culpability to make that plausible. Finally, in practice, there may also be circumstances that do not give rise to any culpability. In this context, I would like to refer to Article 5.41 of the AMvB, under which the administrative body does not impose an administrative penalty in so far as the offence cannot be charged to the offender. Then there's psychic force majeure. The VVD asks me to confirm that if there is no culpability, no fine is imposed on the basis of the AMvB. That's right. That is the same Article 5.41. The administrative body shall not impose a fine if the infringement cannot be accused. To establish this, there must indeed be a situation of force majeure: a coma, a psychosis. Such examples were also given in the debate yesterday. Then there is no question of a fine under the General Administrative Law. This law allows the administrative organ to take account of the difference with a mistake. A mistake cannot be blamed in our language, but according to the law it is reproachable, because you must not be mistaken. I think things were too tight in the old law. You did have to be in a coma or psychotic to prove that that mistake wasn't reproachable. In the new situation, the amount of the fine takes into account the difference between someone who cheats and someone who makes a mistake once. However, we are not naive; there are limits to it. A recurrent rule remains in force and the amount of the amounts and so on remains to be looked at. That is the balance sheet, but Mrs Schut was right to refer to Article 541 Awb. The SP asks: how do you prevent mistakes? How do people know what information is to be passed on? That is a very important question, because it will, of course, prevent a great deal of disaster. It says first of all that it's my goal to prevent that, too. It is therefore necessary that people really know what kind of information they have to pass on. It remains the responsibility of the beneficiary himself to ensure that he is properly satisfied with the obligations involved in receiving the benefit. But last year we, in the change in the Work and Security Act, people now have to pass on data the first of the month for not for nothing started a comprehensive campaign to make people aware of any changes in the rules on information provision. That doesn't just apply to UWV. Implementing bodies pay a great deal of attention to communication about the obligations associated with a benefit. Customers are informed of their obligations when applying for and when granting benefits. In addition, information is provided through the various websites and what is more. It remains a point of attention to see how clear you can make it that there is an obligation to actively provide information yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Ombudsman says that when this is not to be blamed, when it comes to the complexity of the government, the amount of the fine is disproportionately high. He notes that this happens very often. I call it not coming up with information, not being available information, or subjective inability: error, forgetting, misunderstanding, not knowing. Of course, this misery began with that, and that is still the case in part. I asked the Minister whether there should be a possibility of setting the fine at 10% instead of 25%, because the government is responsible for it and because sometimes it also has to do with the impossibility of people themselves. It's not a question of not wanting, but of not being able. That is the first question to the Minister. My second question is this. The Minister rightly says 'we can and must avoid a great deal', but the practitioners and the people themselves see that there is simply no longer time for the personal contact that is necessary for this. So how are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	I shall begin with the second point. We should not want to change the division of responsibility. It remains that, when you receive a benefit, you are responsible for meeting the requirements. One of these requirements is the provision of information. The moment you receive a benefit and go to work, you must report yourself that you have found work. I don't think that's a crazy rule. Yeah, it's complicated sometimes. Yeah, you need to report it quickly, and that sometimes makes people forget and they're wrong. Sometimes they don't find out until they get the first paycheck. Under the old law, that led to very drastic effects. Under the new law, it doesn't have to have those consequences, if you report it yourself within 60 days. It seems to me right that the responsibility lies with the recipient of the benefit. If we were to do this differently, it would be a bit twilight in remarking that there is not enough personal contact. I would think that is wrong. I think you're responsible yourself the moment you receive a benefit. In addition, I believe that we should allow more focused personal attention, but that is more about the effectiveness of guiding people to work. It is not for nothing that more resources go to UWV, for example to better guide the unemployed towards work, training and promising occupations. As far as I am concerned, this is separate from the debate we are having today, which is about the sanctioning regime in the social security laws and whether or not this leads to bottlenecks in implementation. The purpose of my speech is to reply to the first question, which is that, precisely by following the Central Board of Appeal, we are creating a situation in which the law remains sufficiently strict but also allows benefit institutions to take account of circumstances. In view of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, I believe that adding another category of fine does not add enough to the system we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	It would add something, namely that it is more just, because you are not actually talking about fraudsters here. These are people who have made mistakes which have indeed failed to comply with the obligation of information, but in whom it was not the intention and certainly not the intention to fraud. Sometimes, perhaps more often, this is also linked to the attitude of the government. Of course, the obligation to provide information lies with the person receiving the benefit, but at the same time the Minister knows that, he has also seen them come by. There are many examples in which this happens. Think of people who, for example, had not been told by the agency, or who had to start working and have passed that on, but where that did not arrive at the UWV and it has not been registered. Then go and prove it. In these cases, a fine of 10% of the amount of disadvantage would be much more equitable. Does the Minister say that there is no such possibility in this law at all, or do implementing bodies have the possibility of individual tailor-made work, for example, to lower the fines in such cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	The implementing authorities may proceed with a reduction that goes even further. Then they can just say, "We'll take it off now with a warning." The situation outlined by Mrs Karabulut fully meets the conditions. A warning can be enough if, for example, you find that something has not been passed on, and you are on time with it and no fraud has been detected. Then the fine is zero, which is less than 10%. All I just said was that you can also argue that 9% is sometimes more just than 10%. Those are always arbitrary boundaries. I think it is important to maintain that, even if there is reduced culpability, there is still some culpability, even if there may be a fine. It is no longer 100%, but in some cases 25%, so the fine has been substantially reduced. But I'd like to hold on to that. Then you can always fine tune further and say that it should actually be 9%, or 8.5%, or 3%, but then you take away something from the clarity of the system we have. I am therefore seeking to join with the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal and the extension of the possibility of warning as a result of the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	I think this is a good time to ask about something that I asked for in the first term. The Minister is right when he says that the ultimate responsibility lies with the people themselves, but when people have committed a first offense that is less reproachable, people, for example, have misunderstood something. Is this not the time to give people not only a fine, which will fortunately be much lower in the future, but also to ensure that they are taken at hand and that the body that imposed that fine is looking closely at whether there is a need for action in the area of debt relief, or that it is necessary to help people with their administration again to prevent recurrence? Can the Minister promise me that he will see if some kind of final approach can be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	What exactly does Mr Van Weyenberg mean by a final approach to the example he mentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	I am looking for a way of reducing the risk of a recurrence, not only because of the effect of a fine, but also because of the fact that people immediately think about whether or not this is going to happen, or whether it might be someone with a multi-problem, for example. This can then be used as a kind of indicator for example in consultation with municipalities to see if there is anything going on with these people. I think that you can also avoid repetition by looking at possible structural problems that might have been the basis for that first mistake, and then I would think it would be a missed opportunity if someone only got a fine and nothing else happened, while I think more things could be done to prevent repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, but I do not think that we need to regulate this under this law. This law lays down rules for the imposition of sanctions if people have not complied with the rules. If one then finds that someone has not complied with the rules and one finds that there is more going on, implementing agencies can do something with them, for example because they are concerned about the person they are dealing with, or because a follow-up discussion shows that there is more going on. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that this offers opportunities to prevent undesirable behaviour for the future. I wouldn't want to flay that in this law right now. You also need to give implementing bodies the room to do their job with these rules. They complained about the old law as it existed. They have indicated that the new law is good for them. That is also my picture when I look at the implementation practice since the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. As a former local director, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that I have sympathy for his idea. Often it is not ready if a fine has been imposed. Some people are wrong, some are wrong and many others are a bit in between and threaten to get lost in the system. Then it might be worth looking further. I just wouldn't want to impose it on benefit agencies under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	In that sense, I don't want to impose it either. I am not going to table an amendment on this to amend the law. We are also talking about the question of how to prevent recurrence. An important goal of such a fine is to prevent you from repeating yourself. On the other hand, the preventive side, I would like to highlight explicitly. I shall therefore return to it in the second term. I'm looking for a way to make the approach more final without putting it in the law. Perhaps I will come up with a motion, but perhaps in the second term the Minister can find the right words to say: I await the work of the Minister. Then I don't have to make a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	Fine. The Christian Union Group asks whether there is sufficient room to take into account the specific circumstances of the person, such as addiction problems or ggz issues. Yes. Now, on the contrary, the possibility of taking into account this kind of circumstances related to the person in question has increased. There can also be non-disputability on the basis of such a mental condition. It may lead to reduced culpability and also to the determination of non-depreciability. I think that this is something that the benefit authorities can do very well on their own. The same applies to the examples given by Mrs Schouten. The PVV Group asks why there is no longer a minimum fine. That's one of the things that's changed. What's that gonna solve? The short answer is that a minimum fine does not tolerate the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. That fine is not related to the amount of the damage and cannot therefore affect the seriousness of the infringement. Nor does it take into account the degree of culpability and personal circumstances. This means that strict application of a minimum fine is often not proportionate. Anyone who, by mistake for a tiny amount of disadvantage, violates his obligation to inform would receive a disproportionate penalty with that minimum fine of €150, according to the Central Board of Appeal. I think there's a point. We are concerned that people who fraud feel a severe sanction on that. In the examples I gave, the cure is actually worse than the ailment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you to the Minister for his answers, including the first question. In fact, this answer does not relate to the Minister's first answer to my question. For the group of people who are wrong, the minimum penalty can still exist, can't it? After all, the people who are wrong are being treated more mildly. The Minister has talked about this for some time. Well, then the minimum penalty can just stay in place, can't it? We are talking about genuine fraudsters, people who have been guilty. With the Minister's nuance of the change of the law, the minimum fine of €150 can still be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	I understand that question very well. Let me take a little more room for the answer. Take a situation where there is no culpability, but there is a considerable reduction in culpability. You want to impose 25% of the damages. Let's say you've got a three-tenth down payment. The minimum fine in this case is much higher than 25%. So it can be disproportionate for the person concerned. The Central Board of Appeal also says: this actually removes the possibilities of looking at what is going on; what was the amount and was it even reproachable or less reproachable? Then you have a category that you might want to impose a very low fine, similar to the fine you get at the library if you bring back books too late. We understand that, and that helps. A minimum fine of €150 on my eldest son's Donald Duck would be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	On the Donald Duck, you just better get a subscription.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	That is what we have now moved on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	Well done. The Minister is talking about reduced culpability. Then who is it to determine what is less reproachable? You'll end up in the municipality again or with an official. Then there is another chance of a large degree of arbitrariness. I'm gonna be okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	In my first answer to Mr De Graaf's question, I mentioned four or five examples which show that it remains a strict law. However, you have a category of people about Mr De Graaf knows them as well as I do who are happy that they have found a job and pass it on too late. Or they just passed on the wrong amount. Then there will be a small amount of disadvantage. Under the old law they immediately received the minimum fine: €150. That could be a big amount of money if you're around minimum wage and it happens to you all of a sudden. The judge actually said something about the fact that it was clicked like that. In a lot of cases, you get a higher fine. The people we hate here get a higher fine. They're cheating on the place for bigger amounts. The minimum fine is, by definition, about smaller damages. In doing so, reduced culpability should actually result in this not being assessed at random, but rather at the opposite. It is arbitrary if someone who is mistaken and should be fined a very small amount of money on the basis of the rules of the game, when in fact he has behaved much better than other people who may be at the same amount, because they are 100% culpable for the full amount. I think with these modifications, you'll have a strict law for those who deserve it. I think he's gonna stay tough enough, too. You have to pass on the right information. Those rules are there for a reason. Otherwise, he won't be able to function. With some adjustments we help the people who otherwise end up in Kafka's system, who are really being bullied by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	I would ask Members to put the questions a little shorter, because we are really going to finish this subject this morning. Otherwise, we won't make it. I'm just assuming that the Chamber also wants a second term. We're really gonna have to be ready for lunch. Mrs. Schut-Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'll do my best. This is a central point, also for the VVD. We want fraud not to pay off, but at the same time that errors in implementation, in the decision on fines, will not be punished if they are not culpable. Now there are a number of possibilities for this. There is a possibility of warning in the law. It was already there. At the same time, the Minister states that if an error cannot be blamed, the fine must be reduced accordingly. On the one hand, there is the general law of administration, which states: no fine without debt. On the other hand, there is the possibility of not imposing a fine in the execution, in the decision on fines, if there is no fault. I wonder whether the ruling of the judge and the general law of administrative law does not make it possible to work out a 'zero fine', I call a fine set at zero, if there is no culpable behaviour. So we do not have to change the law and therefore not introduce a minimum fine. That would be a much better solution as far as the VVD is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	No, that's not possible. It often goes wrong in the use of speech here. When it is said that there is no blame at all, we often mean that someone did not do it on purpose. Then it's a mistake. The law states that the violation of that duty of information, that duty of information, is culpable. Then you're wrong. Whether you do it on purpose or not, it doesn't matter before the law. Then you broke the rules. On that very point, the implementation practice was unfair, unfair. It didn't matter to the execution practice under the old law if someone had deliberately violated his intelligence duty, because he wanted to put the money in his pocket and worked nicely black or if someone was mistaken, was late or hadn't passed on the right amount. And yes, administrative law says you don't give a fine if it's non-defeatable, but non-defeatable is therefore non-intentional, non-intentional. There's no blame: you were in a coma and you couldn't pass it on. You were psychotic and you thought you were Santa Claus and you had to jump off the roof, so you couldn't pass it on. That's non-disputable. In the category we are referring to in our ordinary use of speech, also in the contacts with people involved in this, we are talking, for example, about people who are wrong because it is complicated, who are a little late or who have passed the wrong amount of money, it was indeed culpable under the law and too little consideration could be given to a reduced reproachability. Precisely because you have to be strict and also want to be strict for people who do it intentionally, it is right that you take into account the degree of culpability when determining the amount of the fine. We're laying that down in the law now. That is the result of the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. Now you can't think from our ordinary speech usage and still read it in the old law. The Central Board of Appeal is also very clear about this. He who says: culpability is the violation of the duty of information; ergo: penance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	A very short follow-up question, because the first question was long ago and the answer was, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's right, but it also sometimes asks for some explanation. Is it then a question of whether, as far as the VVD is concerned, there is always a fine in the event of a disadvantage? Under the old law a warning could be given if there was no amount of disadvantage. If there was a mistake that didn't amount to disadvantage, then a warning could be given. So if it was really a mistake without a downside, you didn't have to pay a fine. Surely that can be further developed in lower regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	In the old situation, there was indeed no need to impose a fine if someone found out a few minutes later that he had filled in the wrong amount or if someone was a day late, nothing else had happened and he filled it out properly or fixed his mistake. But what is the practice? Someone's getting a job. It is often a matter of temporary work. It is often unpredictable on what days that is. Often, that person is not going to report it until the first amount has been transferred, not because it is good, but because that is the way it works in practice. There is already an amount of disadvantage. There is no question of fraud, of cheating, but there is a charge of disadvantage and then under the old law there could not be enough warning. Under the new law, if the chambers accept it, you can report it yourself for up to 60 days and say: I have received my benefit and I have received a paycheck; I should have passed it on earlier, I am sorry. Then you can take it off with a warning. Under the old law, you couldn't. These are typical cases of which, even if you are a liberal with a certain distance from the big government, you have to say: but the law was not meant for that; this was not fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	May I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yeah, but after that, I'm really gonna give the minister the room to answer the questions. I would ask you not to walk to the interrupting microphone every name that is being read, because then we simply will not be able to make it. I would therefore ask you to be very brief and to limit your response to one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	I'm just off the hook with this comment. The Work and Security Act now provides that mistakes are prevented by prior reporting what you are going to earn. Would that not be the real structural solution to ensure that mistakes are avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	Of course. That is what I was talking about with Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Schouten. Of course, you don't want to end up in a situation like this. You try to do that by being clear about the obligations and, where possible, removing that obligation yourself by automatically linking the files. That's much better. That saves a lot of stress in people and a lot of stuff in the execution. That's obvious, but that's easier said than done. Think about the daycare. We're working on that system. A parent should actually fill in four entries. The chance that things are not going well, because someone could not fully assess his personal situation or because things are changing, is extremely great. Then mistakes are easily made. That could have very serious consequences. If, by organising things better, we can prevent people from making mistakes, then that is extremely pleasant. The reality is, unfortunately, that we are still a long way from the situation that this will not happen again. I also think that taking that into account is an element of justice. Mr. Chairman. The spokesperson of the D66 Group asked whether it was possible to further zoom in on the degree of culpability from the implementation. This question also affects Mrs Karabulut's question. The answer is that this can be done and that you can look further and more closely at the culpability. Implementing bodies have the possibility to include criteria for this in municipal regulations or policies. I think that the law offers a little more opportunities for tailor-made work and therefore also for justice. The CDA Group spokesperson asked when someone was not acting blamelessly. There will be no administrative penalty if the offender is not to blame for a violation. By the way, an offender has to argue that himself. In the event of a mistake, this could be the case. In addition, there may be circumstances under which no fine is imposed. If the file shows that there are circumstances leading to reduced culpability, the administrative body itself can take this into account, without the offender having to rely on it. This is also important in addiction cases. In his recommendations, the Ombudsman referred to the possibility of a warning as something that could help. The implementing organisations have also requested this, in addition to the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion. I believe that there are plenty of reasons why this has just been discussed in the debate on the interruption with Mrs Schut O'Honnell to say that the extension of the possibility of warning is a useful addition to the instruments. Practice has shown that a large part of the fines are still imposed on self-declarers. These are people who have provided incorrect or incomplete information or who have provided information too late, but have reported it themselves within a reasonable period of time. Those people are often very decent citizens who say "I made a mistake, I'm sorry; I'm reporting that"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is precisely for them that it is right to introduce this possibility of warning. I was just pointing out the case where the first paycheck comes in. That is a very domestic and logical phenomenon. A warning can only be imposed if it has not happened before in the previous two years. There's an important protection in that. You can get a warning once and you can make a mistake once, but if you are systematically mistaken, there must be consequences. Everyone has a duty to notify changes in good time. The possibility of issuing a warning is not a licence to pass no changes or subsequent changes. A self-defense also violates the intelligence obligation. This means that the imposition of a fine is still the starting point within the law, unless. Because it's a possibility. It means that an administrative body, even if it can impose a warning on the basis of the rules of the game we have laid down, does not have to do so. The blackwork case that Mrs Schut outlined yesterday did not meet that on three or four points. It is a question of extending the deadline, but it is also about a very large amount of disadvantage outside, in which it can really be expected from someone that it is noticeable that it is not according to the rules of the game to receive both a benefit and undeclared work. Even then, the administrative board could say: you just get a fine; you deserve it. We have talked about the zero penalty, as have the recidivism, but I would like to say a little more about that. The spokesperson of the D66 Group asked when there was a recurrence. This is the case in the case of a previous infringement and an irrevocable fine imposed on it. This also applies to the situation as described, in which people under the legislation in force were fined. However, in the context of the recidivism, the exporter must consider the degree of culpability, the seriousness of the offence and the circumstances of the case. This can be taken into account when setting a fine. The amount of the fine in the event of a recurrence shall not exceed 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% of the amount of the charge, multiplied by 150%. In doing so, the repeated increase applies, but it does apply to the amount fixed on the basis of the new rules. I think you're doing justice to the fact that you want to punish recidivism. That is also necessary, but you must always look at the circumstances of the case and the culpability. The CDA asked if this would rule out self-defense. That depends. We consider a self-declaration to be someone who reports within a reasonable period of time; hence those 60 days. The examples have just been given. You can say you're reporting right before the police arrive, but that's not enough if you haven't fulfilled your obligations for a very long time or for a very large amount. Why was it not chosen to reconsider the entire policy of fines, also in the context of the opinion of the Council of State last July? That's what the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union were informing about. The Council of State advised the Minister of Security and Justice in that opinion to look again at the level of statutory legal protection in the case of punitive, i.e. punitive sanctions. It has been chosen not to anticipate this now, in this legislative proposal, and not to rethink the system of sanctions as established by the Fraud Act on its own. Since the ruling, of course, we have acted in accordance with that ruling. On the basis of the cabinet position to be formed on that opinion of the Council of State, it could be considered whether that should have an impact on SZW legislation. The Minister of Security and Justice will report to the Chamber before the summer on how he intends to deal with that advice from the Council of State. I do not want to anticipate that, because I do not yet know what his verdict will be. In view of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, the views expressed in the Chamber and the situation in implementation, I felt that it was necessary to propose to the Chamber to amend the fraud legislation, also because it would have a lot to do if, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, you were to reconsider the entire sanction regime. If this had an impact on social security legislation, it would also take a fairly long time for those changes to be implemented. In the meantime, in the speculative event that this would be the case, I think it is important that the law does justice to the aims of the law, namely to combat fraud without making the wrong citizen a fraudster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	I believe that most of the parties who brought this issue up yesterday have also indicated that it is going to be discussed elsewhere. Taking into account the unsolicited advice of last summer, the Council of State also indicated when advising on this bill that criminal law terms such as "design" do not really belong in administrative law. I had a more specific question about that. Category 5 fines are given in the case of "design'. Those fines are up to a factor of 10 higher than the category 3 fines in case of reduced culpability. The Minister does not want to anticipate the discussion that is yet to come, but will the hand-outs which are now being worked on, which category 5 fines in the implementation practice not already end up in criminal law in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	I remember that question. I'll see if I have an answer to that. Otherwise, I will return to that in the second term. This is very specific. I want to serve the Chamber properly on this point too, and I do not want to improvise. I think the answer is there, but it'll come back. If I get into the answers to the pile of questions, we'll figure it out. The Christian Union asked whether the ruling of the Central Council in January 2016 requires further codification. As regards the administrative fine, Article 5:46 (2) of the AWB applies. The administrative body must align the fine with the seriousness of the infringement and the extent to which it can be blamed on the offender. The seriousness of the infringement and the degree of culpability constitute the primary principles for determining the height. The ruling of 11 January 2016 does not relate to those primary principles. Furthermore, the ruling is primarily addressed to the stakeholders and the implementing bodies. As such, the regulation is not contrary to the ruling. In addition, it should be noted that that ruling relates only to assistance cases and that no specific case-law has been developed so far in the context of fine cases relating to the other implementing laws, which are implemented by the UWV and the SVB. This means that there is no need to codify that ruling of the Central Appeals Board. Of course, in welfare matters, the municipality must take into account the capacity criterion, such as the Central Appeals Council, which specifically formulated it. That rule also provides guidance to take into account the capacity of those concerned in determining the amount of the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	Just so I'm clear, otherwise I might not understand. The Central Council has said: up to 10% and up to 24 months. Roughly, that's the principle of carrying. The minister says this doesn't need to be codified. Does that mean that the current decision on fines cannot go beyond 10% and 24 months? Or is it up to the municipality itself to apply the principle of carrying capacity properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	Municipalities must apply the principle of carrying capacity correctly. The Central Board of Appeal has ruled, by interpretation of law, which is its correct application. What's the difference with that other statement from the Central Council if you don't codify it now? In fact, that other statement by the Central Council is saying, rather harshly, that the law as such is contrary to the law, disproportionately. Then you have to codify. In this case, the regulation is not contrary to the law, but the Central Appeals Council has interpreted the correct application of the regulation. The Council did not do this for the whole, not for UWV and SVB, but for municipalities affected by the assistance. Then you do not need to codify this further; for municipalities, the application of the load-bearing principle in existing regulations is sufficiently clear. The regulation itself therefore does not have to be overboard. It is a further specification of the correct interpretation of the rule as it is. That is the big difference from the 2014 ruling. Then it was said that the Fraud Act, as it is, is contrary to the law. That is a far-reaching ruling which must lead to a change in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	Quite specifically, if I am a welfare worker and I commit fraud and I am fined over 10%, is the municipality in violation and can an appeal or appeal be made against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yes, the municipality must take into account the ruling of the Central Appeals Board, the supreme court on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	Let's see. The Labour Party informed about the decision on fines. I shared the draft fine decision with the Chamber by sending it for information. I hope that this will also allow the Court to assess the proposals in a coherent manner. The draft fine decision has been drawn up in close consultation with the implementing parties, so that it is consistent as far as possible with the implementation practice since the decision of the Central Council. The implementation parties have now also given their administrative response by means of execution tests. I intend to submit the draft decision in its present form to the Council of State for its opinion and to publish it thereafter, so that it can be implemented by 1 January. Then I come to the question of how we will support the municipalities, UWV and SVB. Do they have sufficient knowledge of the possibilities offered by the law? That was a question from the Labour Party. Since the judgment, the authorities are, of course, obliged to apply the fine regime laid down therein, including degrees of culpability. With a view to the practicability and clarity of the practice, the Knowledge Circle Fraud Act, in which the chain partners of the Ministry of SZW work together, started immediately afterwards, in order to explain to citizens how the sanction regime of the law is being dealt with. UWV and SVB incorporated these principles in their policies and working instructions in early 2015. Since then, UWV and SVB have developed a stable and workable implementation practice that is in line with this. The VNG Knowledge Centre Enforcement and Compliance has, financially supported by SZW, developed a tool for municipalities that supports the application of the new system of fines. In addition, at www.fraudwet.nl there is one point of contact where municipalities can also directly ask their questions and they are kept informed about developments regarding the Fraud Act and case law. Handhelds, methods, model regulations, model texts, checklists: all such elements are delivered to municipalities so that they know how to deal with the law. But again, if there are gaps in this, I am always prepared to see how we can inform municipalities and other implementing bodies of the scope that the law offers to be strict against fraudsters, but to take into account people who are not. In this way, we can also ensure consistent application. D66 and the VVD asked for that, and in fact so was the PVV, which expressed its concern about arbitrariness. It must be clear that, following the ruling of the Central Appeals Board, the law will be amended and applied as such. D66, VVD and PVV asked whether they are keeping track of how often fines are imposed and about the degree of culpability, recidivism and warnings. We continue to monitor closely the implementation and application of the Fraud Act. This concerns the number of fines imposed. The UWV and the SVB also look at the degree of culpability and from 2017 this is also monitored by the municipalities. As announced in the October 2014 letter, a comprehensive review of the enforcement of all social security laws will be launched this year. The system of fines in the Fraud Act, as part of the enforcement chain, will also be part of that evaluation. So, yes, we will keep track of how this is handled in practice, so that those objectives of the Fraud Act too are taken seriously. In how many cases, the PVV asks, is an overpaid benefit recovered? The starting point is that fraud should not pay. People must therefore pay the amount wrongly received in full. This is necessary for the support of social security. This is, in principle, a full refund. Small amounts must also be recovered. The UWV, SVB and municipalities should not waive the recovery of culpable claims until a person has fulfilled his ten years' obligation to pay. I therefore agree that this should be applied to small amounts. I have just said a few words about this in connection with the debate with Mr De Graaf on a minimum fine. So on that question, I say I agree. The PVV asks how many people do not speak Dutch. I have no information on this. Then I come to the question about the possession of a BMW. I don't have any information on that, but if a car has more value than the capital limit included in the Participation Act, people don't get benefits. This amounts to €5.920 for a single person. I'm not much of a car connoisseur, but I think most BMWs, if they're not too old, are way beyond that value.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yeah, this one was new, big. Okay, let's leave that question alone. I asked about the number of people who speak bad or no Dutch. We believe that speaking Dutch is a condition for receiving a benefit at all. Let me put it this way: how many percent of fraudsters are non-western immigrants? That's got to be familiar, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr De Graaf asked the Minister through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	I get the question. I'm not familiar with that. However, we have included in the Participation Act the need for people to work in order to find work. It is understood that they are also committed to learning the language. I think this is an important condition for successful participation in the Dutch labour market. I cannot answer this question, especially in the light of the treatment of the sanctioning regime of the Fraud Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	Tip for the minister: if the municipalities are going to monitor everything, they might be able to monitor this too. Maybe the Minister can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	In any case, I cannot undertake to do so in this context. That is not because I do not understand the question, but because this is about the agreements that have been made on the monitoring of fines. Fines are not imposed because someone does not speak the language, but because someone does not comply with the rules on the provision of information. For example, you have other income, or the amount is higher than thought, or you have a BMW and for that reason you are not entitled to a welfare allowance. That kind of fines are kept. As of 2017, we can therefore assess the extent to which there was a reduction in culpability. I cannot add one-on-one all kinds of other, perhaps interesting information to that. I think that Mr De Graaf is concerned with the purpose of the Fraud Act, namely that fraud should not pay, and the first part of the answer is the most important: we keep track of what happens to those fines. The VVD has asked whether it is not better to prevent and investigate the possibility of not being able to apply automatic netting. We were just talking about that. I am very much in favour of this, precisely because it is a good thing for those involved and involves a lot of red tape. I think that this is certainly a possibility for the future that we should be testing further. I think we should be very honest, namely that it is very complex in its implementation. We shouldn't underestimate that, but we have to go there. I think we are very relieved that the settlement in the WWZ seems to succeed so far, even though there are often glitches on the first of the month, problems in handling the notifications. However, it went well, with all ifs and buts, although it was extremely stressful. I agree with the VVD that you should want to do this for more things, but let us not underestimate what this entails in terms of implementation complexity. So you're really talking about the longer term. However, I very much share the objective. I have already said a few things about legal certainty. The SP Group has asked a question about the National Ombudsman's recommendation on debt relief. Debt relief is provided for in the Municipal Debt Relief Act. I think there is some misunderstanding here. The letter of 30 April 2015 states that the Municipal Debt Assistance Act gives municipalities great freedom to fulfil their full role in debt relief. Broad access to debt relief is assumed. There is only one exclusion ground: a foreigner who is illegally resident in the Netherlands is not eligible. For all other people, access to debt relief is a rule, unless individual circumstances give rise to refusal of access by the municipality. That means that this recommendation is already provided for in the law in my view. A municipality, if it is not an illegal alien resident in the Netherlands, can simply provide access to debt relief. Municipalities may refuse in the event of fraud and recidivism. For this reason, municipalities which refuse to provide anyone with access to debt relief must always consider whether the individual circumstances lead to the refusal of debt relief. People cannot be excluded from category. A municipality can therefore allow a person with a fraud claim to provide debt relief. Municipalities themselves can decide whether or not to do so after an individual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	Municipalities can therefore decide to exclude people who have been designated as frauds under this law from providing debt relief. The Ombudsman rightly says that this is undesirable. It happens. You don't have to, as the Minister says, but you can. The main thing is that people should be helped. We have debates about it with the Secretary of State about every month. We are working very hard to improve that system, but the basic condition is that everyone should have access and not on the basis of this law. After all, we know that many people commit "unable" offences, that they get the stamp of "frauder" and that they end up in debt. I wouldn't be able to sell it if people were excluded, even though that would only happen in one municipality. So I'd like us to take care of that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	But that is not the case either. I say again that the basic rule is access to debt relief. I repeat this to Mrs Karabulut. A municipality can derogate from this only on the basis of individual facts and circumstances. Municipalities forbid that, I think the other extreme. If you have a consciously renegade frauder who is widely smiling at the municipality, would you deny that municipality the possibility that she would deny that person motivated access? I really think the situation is in balance. The main rule is access. That access is not restricted on the basis of this law; it has nothing to do with this law. This is the law that creates debt relief by municipalities on the basis of which municipalities can refuse access. I say again that this is separate from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	That is not separate from this law, because it is a question of fraud and this law regulates when the Minister can label someone as a fraud. That's right. We're gonna make that law a little less horrible. The other law does say that people who have received that stamp can be excluded. That is a bad thing, all the more so because it is also a question of the UWV, the SVB and municipalities not being allowed to cooperate in a debt settlement involving final remission. That is covered by the Fraud Act. There are therefore two aspects to this. The second aspect is, by the way, even more relevant. Many people have fallen into debt as a result of the Fraud Act and want to get out of that situation. However, these people were non-customers instead of fraudsters, so municipalities and implementing agencies cannot help solve that debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	Those are indeed two different things. The question concerned access to debt relief, regulated by the Municipal Debt Relief Act. This law will be reviewed and the outcome will be sent to the Chamber for the summer. If you believe that on the basis of the current Municipal Debt Assistance Act something is not good in terms of access to debt relief, treatment of that assessment is the time to settle that. I have just indicated that it is important to establish that with each other..... that as a result of this law nothing changes to the main rule: everyone has access to debt relief. But only motivated, on an individual basis rather than a category, can the College of Mayors and aldermen refuse access to debt relief. If you would like to change that, the treatment of the evaluation of the WGS is the appropriate time and not the time of this law. In the case of debt restructuring, debt write-off rather than debt relief, there are stricter rules. That depends on the principle that you have to repay what you have wrongly received. So that's another matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's true, but the Minister knows as well as I do that you have gradations. In the event of gross intent or guilt, I can still imagine. However, when it comes to culpability, many people are not blamed for this, and the situation that thousands of euros have been owed to people, the welfare agencies and debt relief workers say that this frustrates the solution and that it deprives people of a perspective. People can't participate, while the Cabinet says people do. Those people are over it. They want to improve their lives, but they cannot call on that debt settlement to get their lives back on track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	The word "regulation" is somewhat obscured in that respect. So there is indeed access to debt relief. The general principle that you have to repay what you have wrongly received must be maintained. I think Mrs Karabulut agrees. This is also part of maintaining support for social services. That means that you get help in debt relief and that raises the question of how you deal with it. The forgiveness of debts is of a very different order. I think it is right to say that there can only be a reduction in the amount after 10 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	I'll continue with the debt settlement. It is a bit of an embarrassing discussion, but this law indeed regulates whether you can settle with someone who has committed fraud with the aim that someone is no longer in debt. That could not be done and as a result many people have got into trouble. The definition of "fraud" was also rather harsh. Is it an opportunity to try to separate the good from the bad? I shall try to do so by means of an amendment which I am still preparing, Mr President, but which I will explain very well in my second term. The aim is to ensure that people who have committed fraud but have permanently improved their lives are given the possibility of a debt settlement. For example, if a person has ceased to pay a fine after one year or has no longer committed fraud, he may end up in a route in which he is not allowed to commit an offence for five years and, if so, he will pay back. Is that an option that the Minister can still consider?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	I am going to examine the amendment carefully. I don't think it's appropriate if I start acting improvisingly now. In any case, I disagree with Mrs Karabulut........................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that is an important starting point. It is not for nothing that we are presenting a different balance, in which the small problems in which people have been mistaken no longer have to have such drastic consequences. On the other hand, we have to pay back, even when it comes to small amounts. If Mrs Schouten's proposal does not undermine that principle or bring more benefits than the disadvantages, then we can re-assess it. I should like to examine the amendment very carefully after it has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	I understand that, but I am looking for room for this minister to look at the arrangement, in the sense that people who have crossed the line can get a chance for perspective and recovery, but in a way that is not rewarded again; on the contrary, if the lid is repeated, the lid gets harder on the nose. Is there such a way in which the Minister can discuss it, regardless of all the principles in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'm not here to call things non-negotiable. I believe that I am discussing all the options and also expressing the government's position. So let me take a look at it. As long as we agree on the basic principles of the law, we are also always obliged to look at its effect in practice. So I'm gonna study it carefully later. The SP has asked for the attachment-free foot and the elements in the law that allow the attachment-free foot to be deactivated. It is good to realise that it was already possible for the Fraud Act in situations where clients did not want to provide the information relevant to the recovery of unduly paid benefits. I'm talking about paying administrative fines. So it's not a novelty of this law. If you change that exception now, you have the chance, you run the risk that fines cannot be collected or only partially. In addition, in practice it will be very little necessary to deactivate the herd-free foot. Municipalities are not required to do it................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For UWV and SVB, in most cases the repeated fine is offset by benefits without the attachment-free foot being shown at all. It is precisely for those cases where the penalty is high, so there really is something that has happened and so there is genuine fraud, to quote the Chamber, that you want to keep the possibility of actually collecting the fine. Given that the adverse effects on stakeholders should not be disproportionate in relation to the objectives to be served by the scheme, a balance has been sought between effective sanctions policies in the case of repeated and robust recovery and the importance of social protection in the broad sense and the function of the herd-free foot in particular. Therefore, the possible decommissioning of the herd-free foot is temporary in nature. A longer period is not desirable in order to prevent major problems of poverty. Because of the safety net of the nature of the assistance, a maximum period of three months has been chosen, also because it corresponds to what was already possible before the Fraud Act was introduced. The CDA has asked whether that termination can be linked to cases of intentional violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	Okay, there's been a recidivism, but there's a reason we have the unwound foot. What does it mean for a family if it has less than minimal income to live on and therefore cannot pay food and rent? Is that how we collect the fines? No. What are the social consequences? I ask the Minister to reflect on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	I have just said that the social consequences will be very limited, because this means is not used or hardly used. That also makes sense, because it is a far-reaching means. If you remove that possibility altogether now, you will have no possibility of recovering the fine in cases where large sums of money are systematically fraudulent and do not want to provide information on the possibilities of reimbursement. A balance is really sought in this area, in which the municipality also retains the space to refrain from doing so. And it's maximized in duration, precisely because of that social effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	For very large sums of money, of course, we have criminal law. If the Minister says that the substance is not being used, then I wonder why such a far-reaching means is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	I explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	This means can have consequences, including for children, and can lead to higher social costs. I think it's five years for the WW. It is indeed three months for assistance. Isn't the fact that the Minister keeps this in place just because of the muscle language of the VVD again, when he can, as well as I, justify all the implementing agencies but also the debt relief workers what the consequences will be? We do not collect a fine, but we then incur a lot of social fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	The dilemma is clear. I agree with Mrs Karabulut. You want to be able to recover the fine, I assume Mrs Karabulut also wants to be able to recover it, and you have the unwound foot. You don't have it for nothing, because it's there to keep people from falling underneath it. Those two principles collide here. These interests must be taken into account in practice. This means, on the one hand, not standard, not for everyone, in exceptional cases, not mandatory for municipalities but a possibility for municipalities and limited in duration. On the other hand, I do not want to deprive municipalities of the possibility of using the remedy in those rare cases where Mrs Karabulut will also be tempted to say 'that's enough, now I want to recover that fine, even if it means that people's income falls three months below the bounds'. That balance has been sought. I respect it when parties in the Chamber make a different assessment, because they weigh those interests differently. However, these are two legitimate interests: on the one hand, the possibility of recovering the fine from suspected fraudsters, from criminals, and, on the other hand, the legitimate interest of the seizure-free foot. In my opinion, there is a balance in the law. That is not because of the VVD or only because of the VVD; that was already the case before this Fraud Act. Also for this Fraud Act, the VVD had no absolute majority in the Chamber. It's a well-known fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	Let me take a look at the Minister and ask him about my schedule for the rest of this morning how much time he still needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	That is an understandable question, but it is quite difficult to answer. That depends very much on the interruptions that are coming, but I am already a long way off. Mrs Karabulut spoke about the consequences for children. In such a situation, collection can still be waived. This can therefore also be taken into account. I think that's right. But it is a good thing that the possibility exists for cases where there are no children, who systematically repeats and gives no information. I should like to answer the CDA's question as to whether a design criterion can be attached to it. The problem is that the word 'design' is in fact a criminal law principle. This is due to Mr Heerma's remark. The implementing authorities are not prepared to take that into account. I get the idea. In practice, I do not think there will soon be situations about which we say in the daily use of speech: that has been a mistake. No, there's been a recidivism. You have to come a long way before it comes to this. So I think that this link is there in practice, but it would be undesirable to include it in the law. Then you're going to mix those concepts. In fact, that is something that implementing authorities cannot work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	But does the Minister, with a detour, not anticipate the cabinet response to that unsolicited advice from the Council of State? Thus, the design is apparently so complex that, although the Minister acknowledges that there is a logic in doing it, the implementing authorities and administrative law cannot deal with the application of the design criterion. Isn't that true? Isn't that true? Isn't that true? Isn't that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	Anyway, that's not in question here at all. I think we've talked about it before. There are criminal principles that you need to deal with punitive sanctions. That's where it wrings. The Council of State is right, but the solution is not so simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	The Minister has already said that he may return to this in the second term. This is also really relevant in the context of category 5 fines. If the Fraud Act is designed and the implementing authority or the administrative law goes towards such a category 5 penalty, then the question is whether it does not always go to criminal law or should go to it in practice, given that it is deliberately inappropriate to deal with administrative law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	I had just put in the joker of the second term. Let me hold on to that for a while. You try to take a course like this without the horse kicking off all the bars. The SP asks whether it is not more effective to lower the declaration threshold rather than increase it. That does touch on Mr Heerma's point, but I will come back to his specific question on Category 5. The advantage of administrative action is that it often goes much faster and that, compared to criminal law, much more lick is given. Criminal justice is time-consuming, but administrative law has no suspensive effect. A fine is imposed immediately and so many cases can be dealt with more quickly. The adjustment I propose will have to be demonstrated when there is a high fine, gross negligence or intentional infringement. This does, however, include additional safeguards. This also responds to the Ombudsman's observations on this point. The preference for administrative action does not alter the fact that, in the case of fraud, serious breach of standards, large amounts of money or repeated crime, criminal law remains an appropriate intervention and, in exceptional cases, criminal intervention remains possible even below the declaration threshold of €50,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	There are two aspects to the point of the declaration limit. One is legal protection. The Minister says that you will only get a high fine if it is proven that there is gross guilt or intent. But that's not how it works in administrative law. In that sense, it remains a very vulnerable point. Does the Minister agree with me? The second aspect is even more important to me. The practitioners and also the detectives say that the big fish are less likely to be punished through criminal law than those who have not deliberately made administrative mistakes. Those people, for example, have to pay a benefit plus a high fine for years. Well, that's not proportionate, is it? In other words, the real big fraudsters get off easy and the non-villains get much higher fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	As far as the non-villains are concerned, I think we have found a solution with the proposed adjustments. I understand the image Mrs Karabulut paints very well. That's why I think it's a good thing we're changing the law now. In this way, account can be taken of the non-villainous citizens that Mrs Karabulut is talking about. The question of whether and to what extent the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge then deal properly with the criminal prosecution of fraud is not a matter for me to deal with under the Fraud Act alone. That is, in itself, a justified discussion, but I shall now turn to the question of whether you should lower the declaration threshold. There are two answers to that. First of all, it is possible to make a criminal intervention even if there is a lower amount of fraud. Secondly, it is always up to the Public Prosecutor to consider for himself whether it is appropriate to proceed with criminal proceedings. That too is a difference between criminal law and administrative law. I believe that, precisely in view of the support for social security, it is in our interest to ensure that administrative sanctions remain a possibility. There's only an improvement on the old Fraud Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs Karabulut, one brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	I do not think we can agree on this now, but I would ask the Minister if he would be very keen to involve this aspect in the evaluation. What about in practice catching the big fish and the small fish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	You also have professional fraudsters. That's another situation. In this respect, it is still difficult enough with criminal law to catch those people and then bring them to justice. I am very much in favour of this happening with Mrs Karabulut. The situation we are now discussing is about fraud involving benefits, but that sometimes also tends to be professional. To that end, we have strong sanctions in administrative law and, where necessary, in criminal law. I now come to the financial consequences of the amendment of the law. There was a strong debate on that point yesterday. It concerns the removal of fines of an estimated 21 million. This is an assessment at the time of the amount of fines that would be given as a result of the use of the law. There is also a behavioral effect of 12 million, which is based on the changes to this law. The total cost is 33 million. This amount has been included in the first supplementary law to the 2015 budget and then in the multi-annual picture of the 2016 budget. That is the way in which you have to adapt something that is absolutely inevitable. The assumption at the time was that the higher fines would be extra deterrent. By lowering the fines, that effect has been reduced. That is what the behavioral effect is attributed to. This has been estimated by the Central Planning Bureau at 12 million, apart from the effects on revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u86	Apart from the fact that I see that the Minister is recovering from it, I believe that the VVD's group has wrongly accused the Prime Minister and this Minister yesterday of the responsibility for increasing fraud in the Netherlands by 12 million, I am curious about the reasoning of the VVD. The statement that was made yesterday was: there is the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal, we have to deal with it, but there is also a legislative proposal, which would largely be based on the Heerma/Van Weyenberg motion, which leads to those behavioural effects. The Central Board of Appeal says that the fines are disproportionate and that the law should therefore be amended. We can discuss what part of the 12 million this relates to, but that's where part of it comes from, isn't it? Surely it is not just the addition of the warning that leads to this behavioral effect? Surely there is a direct relationship between the ruling of the Central Appeals Council on the need to amend the law and the fact that the estimate has been adjusted? You can't tell that apart, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u87	That's absolutely true. The parties themselves can debate with the VVD the reasoning that different parties show, but if I look at the reality, then the loss and behavioral effect of those 12 million can be attributed to the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. Claiming that this would be because of me, by the Prime Minister, or by this law, is fact-free campaign language. That's okay, but it's important to point out the effect of this on behavior. That behavioral effect is negligible. It does not result in a huge increase in fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u88	That is a clear answer, but my question follows on from this. Is the Minister also saying that the policy of Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Asscher does not lead to more fraud? That is the clear conclusion I draw from the Minister's words. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u89	Quite the contrary. It is not for nothing that we have devoted this cabinet period to combating fraud, not only with regard to social security, but also with regard to all kinds of other matters, because that is detrimental to the acceptance of social security and the welfare state. We're strict on that, and we're still strict on that. It's weird to frame a judge for fraud, which you actually do by saying that that ruling increases fraud. I also think that this is a strange way of dealing with the behavioural effects like the Central Planning Agency estimates. We are very strict on fraud, but we do want to take account of the citizens who are wrong and who do not regard them as criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u90	That's a very clear answer, so it's basically bullshit. I think it has now been clearly dismantled by the Minister and by all the other parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u91	Then I come to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u92	As a result, a short question. I have the impression that VVD room members, but also rulers, often live in a parallel universe. Has the Minister of Social Affairs updated Prime Minister Rutte on the rules relating to WW and UWV? He complained in the press a while back that people run straight to the UWV when they have become unemployed, whereas that is one of the duties they have to fulfil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u93	I don't think that blame is entirely fair. People make mistakes sometimes. That is also the context in which this debate is taking place. The Prime Minister himself, without having had to address him, said very quickly, I think, via Facebook, that he had not said that quite correctly. In my opinion, it fits with the SP's forgiving attitude to remind you of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u94	I hear the Minister saying that wronging can happen to the best and that this does not make Mark Rutte a fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u95	Exactly. That's how I'm in it. Nor was there any amount of disadvantage in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u96	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u97	A brief comment on the review. We took a good look at that. We have looked at the risk of a precedent created by the review. We have had several exchanges of views with the Chamber on this subject. A motion calling for the revision to be carried out was rejected by the Court. So there's an address to the House not to do that. That's what I'm holding on to. Asked how I look at municipalities that do. Municipalities are not obliged to revise, but as competent administrative body they are entitled to return to their own decisions, even if those are decisions which have become legally and legally untouchable. They will have to bear the costs themselves. That seems to me to be a very healthy starting point. D66 and CDA have asked about the side of the Work Foreigners Act in the motion. This will be further developed, involving the ruling of the Administrative Court of the Council of State of 15 October 2015. The department has said this about the reasonableness of the penalty policy in relation to the Foreign Labour Act. The section considers that a fine system of fines should be introduced, including the establishment of standard fines for different categories of employers and the inclusion of a duty of warning. That ruling gives rise to a change in the Policy Rule on Penalty Enforcement Act for Foreigners 2015 in the area of the differentiation of penalty rates and to include a warning possibility. It is being finalised at the moment. The aim is to bring it into force on 1 July 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u98	Minister, are you going to give an opinion on all the amendments in the second period? Or are you going to give an opinion on the amendments that have already been tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u99	Let me do that anyway. The VVD has tabled an amendment aimed at removing the possibility of extending the alert. I have just said, in a good debate with the VVD and other parties, that the possibility of warning does not go far enough, but that it is necessary to extend it to cover the cases referred to by Mrs Schut. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u100	It is a question of Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u101	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr Heerma has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u103	It's about this. Coincidence exists! The written reply, following the VVD's suggestion to impose a zero penalty, sets out the difference between being able to impose a fine and having to impose a fine. The VVD deletes the warning with this amendment. Does the Minister share my interpretation that the introduction of the zero fine advocated by the VVD, which converts the imposition of a fine into the imposition of a fine, will mean a further weakening of the law than the power of warning that is now being proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u104	I didn't look at it that way. I have considered it as a proposal to reverse the proposal I have made, and I am not in favour of it. Hence my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u105	In the written reply it is quite clear that introducing the possibility of a zero penalty would be a far-reaching weakening of the Fraud Act. That is the answer given by the Minister: a far-reaching weakening of the Fraud Act. The VVD said yesterday that it wanted to consider an amendment to introduce such a zero penalty and to actually go to that provision. The VVD wants to see if they can. Surely that is a further weakening than the power of warning that exists here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u106	That would be true, but I just suspect that the VVD wasn't planning to propose a far-reaching weakening. I think the VVD was mainly planning to limit the slightly extensive possibility of warning. That would be a pity, because you want to be able to deal with fraudsters, but people who are eligible for a warning are not. I'm gonna give you another example of homework. You're unemployed, and then you finally get back to work after your 200th letter. You get to work, and the minute you get the paycheck, you think, "I'm late, I didn't pass it along right." We want to be able to take that case off with a warning. I think that is desirable, also from a liberal perspective. So there is no need to propose a completely different solution. Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u107	The other amendments will be dealt with in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I find that in replying in my enthusiasm I have let go of the always very organized preparation, so if the Chamber can live with that, I am happy to do so in second term. Otherwise, I would have to ask for a suspension of a few minutes in order to tighten up the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u109	Let us then continue with the second term, because we simply do not have those few minutes, I say in all honesty. Another debate is scheduled here at 1.30 p.m. We shall begin with the second term and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman. I have tabled amendments on a number of important points in order to really improve the Fraud Act. The most important thing is that the batter-free foot, the absolute minimum of existence, should be respected at all times. I have listened to the Minister and he says that it is hardly possible to apply it, that it is a rarity and that it should apply to real fraudsters. However, this still makes it possible to apply it, even in the case of families, for example, and I do not think that is desirable. Hence an amendment to that point. As far as we are concerned, access to debt relief must also be guaranteed, even if municipalities can decide on it themselves. If good people who have committed an offence and have been fined cooperate and want to build a debt-free life, people who have to live at the minimum for years, then I think they should be able to participate in debt relief. We have also tabled an amendment on this point. The point of lowering the criminal reporting limit to €15,000 is not only inspired by the Ombudsman's opinion, but also by my impression that this will enable us to tackle and combat the real fraudsters more effectively. I fear the Minister's answer to this proposal. Before I submit my motion, the most important point is that the law as it stands is an improvement. The same applies to the level of fines. More attention is being paid to fraud-intention, the fines are being adjusted and this offers a bit of perspective. We're not here yet, but it's an improvement. In this sense, the law can count on the support of my group. I have another question to the Minister about the non-cannons, where there may be a warning or a fine less than 25% of the amount of disadvantage, which the Minister said very clearly and explicitly, and where there must be more interaction between the implementing authority and the client concerned. How does the Minister intend to ensure that this will go well in implementation practice? My final point is that of the people who have been fined according to the high, strict regime. The Central Board of Appeal has flagged us back, which is why this law is being amended. All these fines should be reviewed as far as my group is concerned. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Central Board of Appeal considered that the Law tightening enforcement and sanctioning policy SZW legislation was too strict, so that in recent years people have been fined beyond their fault and that a number of municipalities intend to revise these fines;]] [[Calls on the Government to review all penalty decisions under the Enforcement and Sanctions Policy Law SZW legislation from the period 1-1-2013 to 24-11-2014 on the basis of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal and to financially compensate those concerned, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34396-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive first-term response. It will not be surprising after my first term that my group also considers this law to be an improvement. The ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, the highest judge in the country when it comes to how you deal with fraud and the fines you impose on social security, is being enforced. This also takes on board a large part of the recommendations of the National Ombudsman. We need to make sure that people who are wrong are less reproachable. I thought the Minister made that distinction clear. If the obligation to provide information has been violated, it is legally culpable. However, there is a big difference between doing this deliberately and just making a mistake and coming to terms later. On one point, the answer continues to raise questions for me. That concerns the penalty rate. The Minister said in an interrupting debate: in principle it is 25%. In reply to the written questions, however, it is stated that the SVB still operates with a separate category of 10%. It is 25%, but there is always customization possible and that can even lead to a 1% fine. Did I get that correctly? The point of the batter-free foot is also hard on the stomach of my group. I am going to take a very close look at Mrs Karabulut's amendment on this. We can, of course, say that we are waiting for the adjustments to be made to municipal debt relief, but the unhindered footprint, which we often have debates about in this building, is quite sacred. As far as access to debt restructuring is concerned, I am also going to listen with extraordinary interest to the amendment that Mrs Schouten is still preparing. In relation to the pakkans, the Minister talked about file links and what the execution can do. However, I would ask him to go a little deeper in the SZW budget on how the chance of getting caught is developing and how we can increase it for people who are really screwing around. This could be both the failure to comply with the obligation to provide information, as well as undeclared work and secondary income and so on. Can the Minister explain this specifically in the SZW budget and announce action on it? We are still waiting for the Council of State to react on two points. The first is the broad relationship between administrative law and criminal law. It's coming soon; I'm very curious about that. In relation to the Foreign Affairs Act, the Minister has outlined a clear timetable. I'm filing one motion. It is about what we do with people who are less blameably fined, because someone has not complied with the obligation of information, which is much lower than in the old system. Isn't that the perfect time to make every effort to avoid repetition? This can be done not only by imposing a fine, but also by taking a final approach and checking whether people have their administration in order. Such a violation could be an important signal that something is going on. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people who receive reduced fines due to reduced culpability often face more problems, such as problematic debts, lack of understanding of their administration or limited literacy;]] [[Whereas the imposition of only a fine in these cases will not lead to the recurrence of errors in the future;]] [[invites the Minister, with implementing authorities and municipalities, to explore what additional measures they can take to prevent further abuse and to inform the Court of Justice of this by 1 October 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34396-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you very much for your second term. I call Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. The bill we discussed and discussed yesterday and today is actually about the relationship between justice and legality. As the Minister stated in his first term, the legislator was flagged back by the judge because the law was contrary to the law. That is what we, as Parliament, should be concerned about. I say this also on behalf of my own party, because we too have supported the introduction of this law. But it is good that the law is changed, because he is not just. The Central Board of Appeal states that the disproportionate fine system did not take into account the circumstances of the case, the nature of the offence and the degree of culpability. It's gonna be fixed here. It is good that the Minister does so in this law. This corrects the imbalance that has arisen between the interests of the public authorities in this law and the protection of citizens' rights. I must say that the approach of the VVD to allow the interests of the State to prevail over the protection of citizens' rights is shameful for a liberal. I also hope that, in its second term, the VVD will take into account the Minister's response and reconsider the course chosen here, bearing in mind the liberal traditions. There's still some loose ends left. Mr Van Weyenberg already indicated that his group would like to take a serious look at the SP Group's amendment on the unhindered foot. He looks forward to the Christian Union amendment. The same applies to my group. There are remaining problems with a law on which, once again, we have been flagged back by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u115	You will deal with the amendment that you have not yet tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u116	Sure. However, I would like to return to a number of other points. Thank you for this debate. As I indicated in my first term, I can be quite clear about this law: we will support it. Every step forward is a step forward. As far as we are concerned, this law is a step in the right direction. We await the more fundamental debate on the mixing of administrative and criminal law. Because if the Central Board of Appeal does not make such a comment for the first time, we must discuss it. We will do so, although it will probably be with another ruler. We certainly need to go into that more closely. In my first term, I asked questions about the unwound foot. I will support Mrs Karabulut's amendment on this, because we have agreed in this country that the unwound foot is the absolute minimum. As far as we are concerned, we must maintain that. I have received my amendment, which has not yet been tabled. I apologize for the fact that it has not yet been filed. The Bureau of Legislation is working very hard on this, but fourteen laws need to be considered, which is quite a job. I will try to describe it as well as possible, asking the Minister whether he can respond in writing to the amendment. Now let's get to the point. I have an amendment in preparation which does allow access to a debt settlement if there is a fine or criminal prosecution, albeit not in all cases. We're gonna put some restrictions on that. For example, a year after the fine or the declaration has been made, there must be no repetition: you must be clean for a year. Then you can join in a debt settlement, but if you go back over the line in five years from the moment the debt settlement starts, you have to pay everything back completely and there is no leniency either. That way we try to unite two things. On the one hand, we want to offer people a perspective, but on the other hand, we also want to be very clear about the fact that, in the event of repeated repetition, it is the same end story, and I think that this way we are also uniting the best of both worlds. That is the spirit of the amendment, but I would like to repeat that it is still technical. I hope the Minister understands that breaking a law does indeed deserve punishment, but that we should also offer people perspective. If that means that we can make a debt settlement possible in this way, and that we may be able to avoid much higher social costs as well. Once again, the amendment is still being tabled. The Minister may already be able to comment on it, but it may also be possible to do so in writing if it is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. If I had seen yesterday's debate at home on the couch, I would have wondered why I'm doing everything neatly according to the rules, while it pays to do it wrong. A smokescreen was erected: the CDA wants to remove fraud that people themselves report with a warning, D66 agrees and wants to go further. That is what the MPs of these parties are proposing, which is why fraud is no longer severely punished, that it pays off, and the VVD does not want a year of undeclared work alongside a WW benefit to be dealt with with with a warning. The VVD stands up for the people who are best prepared to pay tax for the benefit of another...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr President, this is a personal fact. I'd like to speak now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u119	I call Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u120	I didn't suggest anything about fraudsters getting away with it. This also applies to all other colleagues, I think. I have suggested that this be done in a reasonable manner. The Minister has also made it clear that there is no more fraud at all, so this is really bullshit. Cheap. I have one question, in response to Mrs Schut. Mr Hooijmaijers, convicted of corruption, Mr Swane from Maarssen, convicted of taking bribes, Mr Van Rey and Mrs De Kruif, both associated with money laundering, and finally Mr Offermanns and Mr Meijdam: what do these six people have in common?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u121	That's below the limit, I'm not gonna go into that! I can respond to Mr Van Weyenberg's remark that this is not about more fraud. Then Mr Van Weyenberg has not done his homework, because there is a difference between the Fraud Act and its implementation. We're just talking about the law here, and we're changing it. D66 wants more warning and people to be warned when they report themselves. This can result in people who spend a year working in the dark besides their WW benefit simply not getting a fine, and the VVD fits for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u122	That is factually wrong! I understand all the facts are out the window in the campaign machine of the VVD. The Minister has just said that there is no more fraud. I haven't said anything in a year. That's bullshit. Mrs Schut refers to a decision on fines which refers to the 60-day deadline, which was submitted by Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Asscher. Finally. Those six fraudsters, let me keep saying it nicely: five fraudsters and one suspect of fraud are all members of the VVD. It's clear. People who are wrong are the scarf at the VVD. I wish Mrs Schut a little more self-confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u123	I have touched a very sensitive chord here, because it is true that with this law more fraud goes unpunished, and we are opposed to that. The VVD sees that people want to show solidarity with others who really need a benefit, but the party also sees that they are concerned about the abuse of that solidarity and therefore this law goes too far the VVD. Mistakes must be avoided, and we can do so by taking into account the benefits in advance. Last year, in July, I tabled a motion on this matter. I kept it at the time, but I do not think that it has yet been sufficiently implemented, so I shall submit my motion again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fraud should not pay;]] [[noting that in practice it appears that people are wrong in the data they are required to supply;]] [[Whereas it is better to avoid errors than to remove fraud with a warning;]] [[Whereas errors can be avoided if income is settled in advance against the amount of the benefit;]] [[Whereas the UWV applies this income allowance in the Work and Security Act from 1 July 2015;]] [[Whereas municipalities may use information from Suwinet for income conversion;]] [[asks the Minister if he, in consultation with municipalities, arranges for municipalities to be able to offset income with benefits as of 1 July 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schut-Welken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34396-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u124	I'd still like to try to find a sense of reality at the VVD. It is an important and serious subject. We're not just talking about collective resources, we're talking about people. Does the VVD recognise that by introducing this law, which is contrary to the law, the judge has ruled, hundreds if not thousands of people have been unnecessarily duped and saddled with high costs that they may never be able to repay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u125	The VVD is on the side of the people who are now watching this debate and are thinking: I pay taxes and other people work black or commit fraud; why are they no longer punished but are their fraud dismissed with a warning? On that side is the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u126	I think it's cheap, even cheaper than cheap. I do know that you like to get drunk, play on the lower abdomen and crawl to the PVV. I know you're moving to the far right, but I thought you'd be a little higher. 90% to 99.9% of people who receive a supplement or benefit in one form or another do not cheat. Is it not your intention to blow up solidarity and social security by not just calling people random as fraud, but even taking the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister into your trap by accusing them of fraud? Isn't that ripped off? Do you not dare to say openly: in fact we do not like social security; that they grab at the top we let go, but social security for ordinary men and women and things collectively organize do we not like? Don't you dare say that this is how we try to blow up solidarity by turning people against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u127	On the contrary, we are going for equal monks, equal cuts. If a company commits fraud or employs a undeclared worker, we want this company to be punished. We also want the black man to be punished equally, even though he himself is reporting. The CDA, D66 and also the SP make it possible for there to be inequality. The VVD aims to ensure equal treatment of fraud, both at the top and at benefit fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u128	In the debate yesterday, the VVD Group personally held the Prime Minister and Minister Asscher responsible for the increase in fraud in the Netherlands by 12 million. In his first term, the Minister explained quite clearly that the behavior of the 12 million follows from the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal and that yesterday's statement of the VVD was fact-free campaign language in the debate. Nevertheless, does the VVD maintain that position or does the VVD acknowledge, given the Minister's statement, that those 12 million result from behavioural effects from having to mitigate the disproportionate penalty policy, as a result of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u129	Let it be clear: the VVD was against the motion submitted by CDA and D66 to extend this possibility of warning. What is now literally written in the documents is that there are behavioural effects which increase the incidence of fraud. In the case of behavioural effects, we do not know exactly what caused them, but only that they occur. So the fact is: there is more fraud committed by this bill. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u130	There is a lot of fog, but there is no answer to the question. Yesterday, the VVD said that 12 million extra frauds were committed in the Netherlands and that this minister, and also the Prime Minister, were responsible for this. The Minister explains here about behavioural effects that the majority of those 12 million stem directly from the adjustment required by the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. The Minister also indicated here that the effect of the warning was negligible. Yesterday there was fact-free campaign language of the VVD. That is, apart from the fact that everything the VVD has brought in here is contrary to any classical-liberal principle, something else to get the shame red from on the jaws. Does the VVD maintain here that this minister and the Prime Minister are responsible for the increase in fraud? Is the fact-free campaign language maintained or does the VVD also recognise that directly from the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u131	The CDA wants to eliminate fraud with a warning. D66 agrees and wants to go further. So they've made proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u132	I'm making another personal fact. Mrs. Schut-Bedanken says things in response to me. Mrs Schut-Thank you for telling the truth about other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mrs Schut-Welkins has the floor. You will have the floor again later, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u134	It has absolutely nothing to do with a personal fact or with personal allegations. I am talking about the CDA and D66 and not about the person, unlike Mr Van Weyenberg. He's talking about people. In response to Mr Heerma, I say the following. The VVD was against that motion of CDA and D66. That motion has extended the possibility of warning in the law. This draft law as a whole, i.e. both the extension of the possibility of warning and the adjustment of the ceilings of fines, will lead to greater fraud in the future. Extending the possibility of warning is a major part of this. On the left or right, this bill creates more fraud and the VVD opposes it, because fraud should not pay. Mr Heerma can ask me three more times, but the answer will remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u135	The Minister is literally saying here that the effect of that warning is minimal and that the 12 million is largely caused by the Central Appeals Board. Does the VVD state here that the Minister is in box K proclaiming falsehoods? My second question is: does the VVD now indicate that this minister and the Prime Minister, because part of it comes through the Central Board of Appeal, are responsible for part of the increase in fraud of 12 million? Is it an attenuation from yesterday? Is that what the VVD's doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u136	No, we're just saying that the total amount of the bill makes for more fraud. Which causes that, we don't know exactly. That's the problem with behavioral effects. However, you can see that this bill causes more fraud. That is why we are against it, because fraud should not pay off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u137	I'd like to take a look at the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. The entire Chamber, including Mrs Schut-Welken, sees a clear relationship between the legislative proposal before us today and the relevant ruling of the Central Board of Appeal of November 2014. Can I also understand Mrs Schut's words in such a way that she thinks that our highest court is also responsible for extra fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u138	You have to separate the law from the execution here. We have had a whole discussion about whether a fine should not be imposed if someone makes a mistake and the culpability is zero. This is now possible, but only on the basis of administrative law. We are concerned that at all times we want to prevent the proposed legislative amendment from allowing a person who has committed assistance fraud or has been working illegally while he has a WW benefit, to report after a year and then simply get away with it. In this sense, we cannot go along with the legislative proposal because of the way in which it expresses the opinion of the Central Appeals Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u139	I have a brief follow-up question. Does the VVD itself feel responsible for the suffering that has been caused to all those people who accidentally handed in a form a day too late, who no longer saw the more complicated forest because of the complex trees and who are therefore deeply in trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u140	The VVD has come up with many constructive proposals to prevent mistakes and therefore much misery and fines. I'm making another appeal to that now. In the past, we have already said that you have to compensate income against the WW benefit. This has been introduced by the UWV. I'd also like municipalities to do that. If that is what Mr Kerstens is trying to do, I hope he will support my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u141	I had some doubts as to whether I would still be coming to the interrupting microphone, but I would still like to respond to the words that are being spoken. If we are talking in this way about a ruling by the Central Board of Appeal and if we are left in the middle or what the Minister has said is really true or not, then I would like to make that clear. I don't think we should leave that in the middle. Does Mrs Schut agree with the Minister's statement that most of the additional costs of this bill, the 12 million fraud she is talking about, are not the result of all kinds of motions or whatever, but rather of simply following up on the ruling of the Central Appeals Council? Does it also agree that the bill not only envisages an adjustment of the warnings, but also, to a large extent, the level of the fine and its duration, which is directly the result of a ruling by the Central Appeals Board? Does Mrs Schut endorse these two matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u142	Let me first deal with the financial implications of this bill. The basis for this is contained in the documents we have received on this subject. It states that the ruling of the Central Appeals Board will reduce the revenue from fines by 21 million. So that's what I agree with. In addition, an amount of 12 million is associated with behavioural effects. Behavioural effects arise because the law becomes less frightening and people start to anticipate it. They are therefore more likely to commit fraud because they know that they are not fined. So I say again that the basis for this is given in the documents. I don't think the Minister has done anything about it either. Perhaps Mrs Schouten could remind us of the second point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mrs Schut says she is opposed to this bill because it mainly implements a motion, but does she agree that this bill largely implements a ruling by the Central Appeals Board, our highest administrative body?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u144	I have already said in my first term that we could have lived with it if the legislative proposal had simply implemented two technical matters from the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal, namely that there are limits in the law and that there is transitional law. However, this bill goes much further. On the contrary, we do not agree with the part of the warning, because that part will result in fraud paying more. We cannot agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u145	I'm just finishing up, because I don't think I'm gonna get much further with this. I do not care what Mrs Schut says about the fact that the Minister did not indicate in the context of the 12 million that the behavioural effects of the legislative proposal are nil, but that this is the whole of the ruling. She refuses to go back to the words she used yesterday, while today the Minister explained that these costs are not caused by them. It thus maintains the allegation that this Minister is responsible for an increased amount of fraud, even for increased fraud as a whole. I think that's quite an accusation. It would be a good thing for Mrs Schut to say, in response to the Minister's comments, that she should perhaps have said something else. Mrs Schut may well be against this law, but this allegation is now in the Acts. I think it's pretty heavy. I would like to suggest to her that she look again at her own wording yesterday and to say, in response to the Minister's comments, that perhaps I should have said something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'm talking about my own words. Yesterday, Mrs Schouten also tried to put words in my mouth. I said what I said: we see that this legislative proposal will lead to more fraud, which is why we are opposed to it. I don't have to take anything off of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u147	Maybe against my better judgment, I'll make one last attempt. The Minister said that also the behavioural effects naturally follow from what happens to the fine regime. They also follow, according to the Minister almost entirely, from the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal. I have heard the Minister say that this law leads to less fraud and that he follows the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. Does Mrs Schut say that the Minister, and therefore the Prime Minister, responsible for this piece, is thus telling an untruth in section K? Can she at least serve ready wine? We do not agree on the content of this report, which can be done, but I think the Minister has said very loudly that this law does not lead to more fraud and that it follows the Central Appeals Council. Does Mrs Schut say that the Minister is lying or doesn't she say that? It can only be two and one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u148	Once again, let me make it clear that we had a completely different situation at the time when CDA and D66 had not tabled the motion to extend the possibility of warning. That is why, for us, it is possible that a person who commits a year of fraud and reports to himself will not be punished. That is also the part that we are most opposed to. That's what caused both CDA and D66 themselves with the motion two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u149	"Tough" you say, I think. For the Acts, you have 60 days to report. That's what the Minister's decision says. I think we've said it ten times now. Mrs Schut does not want to say it, because she has another story that she would like to say. What the facts say is obviously irrelevant. But again, I give up. I have a simple question. Does Mrs Schut say that the Minister, who says that there will be no more fraud and that behavioral effects on the over-, over-, largely follow from the ruling of the highest judge in this country, who has ruled that the law is not proportionate and must be different, lies? Is the Minister lying? Is the cabinet lying? Isn't it? Don't start again with my party, the CDA, the Christian Union, the PVV, the SP and the PvdA. I ask a very clear question: is the Minister lying on behalf of the cabinet and on behalf of the Prime Minister? So isn't what's in all the documents the cabinet sent us? Is the Minister telling an untruth here or not? Mrs Schut keeps saying that here all the time. Then let them just admit it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u150	D66 has to do his own homework and get his homework in order, because we are talking about a legislative change here. D66 and also the CDA constantly say that it is now very well arranged in the execution: within 60 days you have to report and it may only be a small amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u151	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u152	We're just talking about a legislative change here. This change of law means: if you report yourself, there may be a warning. We just think that's a bridge too far. That is why we are against it. I have already replied three times to everything else that Mr Van Weyenberg asked. So I don't want to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u153	I didn't get an answer to my question. It is good that Mrs Schut is no longer talking about that year, because that was incorrect. My question, however, was whether the Minister is here in box K or not. That is what she constantly claims yesterday and today for the people who are following this debate. I want ready wine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u154	Finally, very briefly, Mrs Schut. Then we'll finish this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u155	We simply do not want fraud to pay off. That's what happens with this bill. That is why we are against it, because fraud should not pay off. We agree with all those who look at this debate and think: I would be willing to pay for another person's benefit, but if someone else is working black, I just want that to be punished. That's not happening right now. That is why we are opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u156	The last speaker in the second term of the Chamber is Mr Kerstens. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the sitting will be suspended for ten minutes after Mr Kerstens has spoken. The answer will then be given by the Minister. So we will not suspend for lunch; we will finish this debate first. That seems to me to be in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions put to him. Given what just happened, you might not say it, but today is a beautiful day. At that time, after three parties voted alongside my party, the Labour Party, also the SP and the Animal Party, against the then unjust Fraud Act, there is now almost Chamberwide agreement on the need to adapt and relax the law, because the law does indeed work unfairly in practice. A majority of the Chamber does not want it and is in favour of justice. A consequence of this relaxation is that people who no longer see the forest through the trees, turn in a form one day late or misplace a cross, are no longer treated as seasoned criminals who deliberately cheat the place and thus rob society. That's definitely a win. Unlike my coalition partner just did, I also thank the Minister for that. It is also profitable to confirm that people are entitled to a fair, respectful treatment by the government, taking into account their circumstances and providing tailor-made services. In my contribution yesterday, I indicated that such a personal approach should also be used in other contacts between the government and the citizen, in particular with regard to activities to guide people who are dependent on benefits towards the labour market. That is where it is important that the government knows the people in question, knows who they are, what they can do, what they want and what it takes to get there. Customizing and taking personal circumstances into account, that is also the promise of decentralisation. It is precisely today that the Central Board of Appeal reaffirms that in a number of matters relating to domestic aid. I am not going to table a motion on this in this debate; finally, we are talking about the Fraud Act. However, taking into account that in practice this personal approach is still too often wrong, I would like to remind the Minister that, together with his colleague, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, he will ensure that this personal approach and that tailor-made work also become guiding principles in, for example, reintegration activities. Finally, Mr President. The Minister has addressed in detail some of the Ombudsman's recommendations which he has not followed, at least which he does not think he should follow because they are already practiced in another way. This other way has to do with the space that municipalities have to allow people, for example, to provide debt relief and to respect the unhindered foothold. It remains strange, of course, that municipalities, which normally always ask for that space, are asking for an arrangement from the Minister in this particular case. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there are some doubts. That is why I shall, at least, have the CDA and D66 colleagues who have also indicated that they will have serious discussions with my group on whether it would be wise to support the amendment tabled by Mrs Karabulut on the unwound foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u158	You will have another question from Mrs Schouten, Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr Kerstens rightly pointed out that municipalities around debt relief have freedoms. However, there is no such freedom for whether or not to allow a debt settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u160	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u161	That is what my amendment is about to be tabled. How does Mr Kerstens feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u162	I would also like to speak seriously with my group colleagues on this issue. I have seen that Mrs Schouten has made a serious effort in her not yet tabled amendment, but that we have all already been given a serious effort to strike a balance: fair, but also strict where necessary. So I will look seriously at that too, because I appreciate the effort. This also has to do with the comments I myself made in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u163	This brings to an end the second term of office. The Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u164	The first term and the second term of the Chamber have already taken place. We are now starting with the government's second term. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr. Chairman. Those who look at this debate in the bank were often discussed. I very much appreciate their interest. I think there are two feelings about that. First of all, you don't want fraud to pay off. No one here wants that. That is why we also have strict anti-fraud legislation. Secondly, we all know, including the people at home in the bank, that sometimes you fill something wrong or sometimes too late, and that it is unfair to be thrown away as a fraudster and to be harassed with a huge fine. That balance, that balance, is in the bill that I am defending here on behalf of the government for that reason. Anyone who sits on the couch and thinks "I see this differently" is welcome. Mrs. Schut introduced someone here who would work for a year in the dark. But you can't. Then you do not fall under the warning option, because it includes a limit of 60 days. She has said that the Minister can change this period without the Chamber knowing it. Of course, under the condition that the VVD votes in favour of the law, I am therefore making a commitment, especially for the VVD, that a change in the time limit for self-reporting will always be done by means of a suspension procedure with the Chamber. That deadline is now 60 days. Then no minister, not even my successors, can secretly go along with that. It wasn't allowed, it's not allowed and it's not allowed. This will not happen in the future either. Then this debate can end in a much more positive way than just seemed to happen. I will make no mistake about it: nobody gets away with a year of undeclared work and fraud in welfare, but we are not going to label innocent citizens as fraud anymore, not in the debate, not in people's homes, not in the bank or not in the workplace. The CDA asked a question about the category 5 fines. Such fines are also imposed in current practice. The amount of disadvantage above €50,000 can therefore also lead to this kind of administrative fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u166	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I always hope that when Mrs Schut hears something a second time, it works. This law therefore does not lead to more fraud and not to more fraudsters. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u167	I think I mentioned the behavioral effect that we report on in writing. This is a consequence of the reduction in fines and of the need to take account of the ruling of the Central Appeals Board. We codify that statement neatly in the law. This has also been reflected in the Penalty Decision. All that has been added is the warning from the Heerma motion plus the Ombudsman's opinion plus the compelling request from the implementation practice. This will by no means lead to a behavioral effect of 12 million. It's a very small, negligible effect. I have made this extra assured by my commitment, especially vis-à-vis the VVD, to the front suspension procedure. Implementing organisations have been working with this statement since 24 November and therefore with the phenomenon in mind. Regardless of the complexity, this has so far come out of the way. I do not wish to advance the debate on the opinion of the Council of State, which is yet to take place, but at least I think this is an answer to Mr Heerma's question. I will deal with a number of amendments, first of all with Mrs Karabulut's amendment on a robust collection and the unhindered foot. I understand the amendment very well. I said a few things about this in the debate. I also understand that you can weigh those different interests differently. On behalf of the government, however, I would like to discourage this amendment, because we believe that the interests are sufficiently balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u168	This is about the Karabulut amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u169	Yes, chairman, I'm sorry. Let me now turn to the amendment to item No. 13 on the debt settlement. In the explanatory memorandum, it seemed to be about debt relief. We have said earlier that access to debt relief is guaranteed. The National Ombudsman also pointed this out. If there is anything to change about access to debt relief, then the process of evaluating the WGS is the right time to do so. We do not need to amend the Fraud Act. I therefore reject this amendment. Mrs Karabulut's amendment to item No. 12 is about lowering the criminal reporting limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u170	As far as reporting is concerned, I will amend the amendment on debt relief and amend the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have indicated that the administrative judgment brings a number of advantages over criminal law. If criminal law is adopted too quickly, there is also the disadvantage that more people are given a criminal record, which can make their further functioning in society more difficult. In addition, criminal law is time-consuming. I think there's enough flexibility in it. There is a declaration limit of €50,000, but under certain circumstances criminal law can also be applied under that amount. The State's Attorney's Office can always judge that. If that limit were to be reduced and if much lower amounts were to be automatically transferred to criminal law, more people would be saddled with criminal records, the criminal justice chain would be taxed more heavily and the lick-on-piece character would be removed from this law. So I'm gonna advise against this. I have heard a lot about Mrs Schouten's amendment. I fully understand what she is doing with this: she is seeking a compromise between the various interests. I'm not saying no to that right away. I agree to take a good look at it and pre-advise it in writing. The first motion, that of Mrs Karabulut on item No. 15 on the revision, is in fact another version of a motion that has already been rejected by a majority of the House. I continue to advise against such a motion. The motion in part No. 16 is about a discussion with the implementing authorities about what we can do in addition to preventing people with all kinds of other problems from repeating themselves. I'd like to do that, so I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 17 deals with the settlement of income and benefits as of 1 July 2017. I would ask Mrs Schut to hold on to that motion for a resolution. I promised in the SUWI-AO that I would come forward with a letter on this subject before the summer. This motion is asking me to take care of this for next year. That does not seem realistic to me. If Mrs Schut has seen the letter, she can always ask the Chamber for a ruling on the cabinet's ambition on this point. As I indicated in the first term, I very much agree with its purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u172	Last July, I filed an almost identical motion. I was promised that it would be implemented. So it hasn't happened until a year later. That's why I'm not holding this motion right now. I want to keep the pressure on the kettle. But I appreciate the Minister's intention to come forward with a letter before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u173	In view of the date in the motion, which does not take account of the complexity of implementation and the risks it entails for both the execution and the right holders, I must therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u174	There are no further questions, so we have come to the end of this debate on the social security laws relating to the regulation of administrative fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-4.u175	The motions and amendments tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. In any case, there has been a commitment that the Chamber will receive a written response to a further amendment tabled by the Christian Union. That reaction will have to come well before that vote. I thank the Minister and his officials for all their contributions.
