ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday De Telegraaf, in the framework of the Ukraine referendum, came with a message under the heading "Subsidies handed out without a hitch." The CDA has already asked written questions to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on the chaos in the implementation of the referendum, on the timely granting of subsidies and on other issues such as organisational costs. The said article describes that the grant of the grants is a mockery. Even the Minister for the Interior's own colleague, the Minister for Finance, calls the granting of grants for certain projects a waste of money. Joep Bertrams drew the illustration in the daily De Limburger as a blur. I would like to mention a number of examples in the article: toilet rolls paid for tax money, entrepreneurs who find it an extra addition to their turnover and finally a referendum committee that feared too much workload and therefore did not review the content. Whether you are in favour of or against the referendum or are neutral about it, we must all agree that the award must be made with care and justice. Does the Minister believe that everything is still under control and that this is all head-on to explain to the citizens who have to cough up the millions of tax dollars? Can the Minister promise that there will be a careful external evaluation of the lawful and effective granting of grants? Does the Minister see to it that everything that has been unlawfully paid comes back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Advisory referendum Act established the Referendum Committee as an independent administrative body. In the explanatory statement it is added that this is explicit because in an advisory referendum the cabinet is a party because in principle it is about a bill that has been passed, you may adopt it, with the agreement of the cabinet, by the Second and the First Chamber. As a result, the cabinet cannot and must not in any way influence the granting of subsidies. So I cannot and will not be accountable here for the choices that are being made. I'll add the following. The total grant of 2 million per referendum is also in the law. So that, too, is not something I, as Minister of Choice, have in mind. However, the subsidy scheme drawn up by the Referendum Committee explicitly states that the money must be properly spent on what it has been requested for. It is therefore also up to the Referendum Committee to monitor this and to ensure that if the money is not properly spent, it is recovered. The evaluation was also requested. By the way, it is the first time we have had an advisory referendum. In any case, the Referendum Committee will first of all evaluate how it has gone. The Election Board will also carry out an evaluation of this. The cabinet will then use these two evaluations as input and will also come up with an appreciation of them and send them to the Chamber, after which the Chamber will be able to examine them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	As a CDA, of course, we understand that the Minister is not going to interfere with the content of the campaign and we also understand that he has no opinion on it. As we have said, whether you are for, against or neutral. If a committee with its hands in the air says it is afraid of a high workload and therefore does not want to examine the substance of the matter, can it not be that the same committee is going to carry out its own evaluation to check the legitimate award? I expect the Minister of the Interior to provide for an external evaluation which will clearly assess that legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	I think I have to disappoint the CDA with regard to both expectations. As far as the content of the campaign is concerned, the government has a position. We hope that people will vote in favour, and we also feel free to express that argument. Furthermore, we are dealing with the review and assessment of the Referendum Committee. That is precisely something that has been withheld from the cabinet by the Advisory referendum Act. So I won't appreciate that. Moreover, I have been informed by the Referendum Committee that all the awards have been discussed in committee. Therefore, I will not take over the word "complaintless."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	The word "complaintless" is even literally in the article. So that's the source. We still assume that unlawful subsidies will be recovered. I therefore hope that the Minister will see to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	I've already confirmed that. It is a task of the Referendum Committee, but I assume that the legitimate use of the grant money will be monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	The minister says he's not about subsidies, but he's about mayors. That's what we talked about last week. Then the Minister said: it should be out with mayor's propaganda on the voting passes. In Hendrik-Ido-Ambacht, however, Mayor Heijkoop gave a tough yes advice on the voting pass. The Election Council has said that this is not the intention. But the mayor said he's not willing to do anything about this. Last week the Minister said that this cannot be done. Is he now prepared to intervene in Hendrik-Ido-Ambacht and call Mayor Heijkoop to order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	It's a little off-topic, but of course I'll answer the question. As the previous speaker said at this place, you should always be careful when quoting the SP. I don't think the mayor sent you a hard-ass yes advice. By the Referendum Committee and by me last week, all the municipalities have pointed out once again that it is wise to refer to the website of the independent Referendum Committee when sending the voting passes for any substantive summary of what the referendum is about. If you're gonna make a choice or quote from it, you're gonna start charging suspicion on you that you're doing it selectively. People can object to that and read a covert opinion in it. Moreover, I think that the citizens of the Netherlands are very well placed to have their own debate and to make their own judgement on this matter.
