ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I am the first and the only one to give the floor... No, I am not the only one to give Mrs Van Toorenburg the floor, but I am the first to do so. She speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. A motion from the opposition has recently been rejected to allocate extra money to the acute needs of the security services. Tonight I will make a final attempt through an amendment by CDA, D66, SP, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion and the SGP. Based on information we received firsthand from the organisations concerned, the national police, the NFI, the justice system and the Public Prosecutor's Office, we propose to spend 184 million euros extra in 2016. In recent weeks' debates and in this morning's debates, all these groups have confirmed the need to invest, especially this year. The amendment in part No. 7 and the cover speak for itself. We still hope for the common sense of the Minister, of this cabinet and of the coalition, and ask them to consider this amendment as a hand-out, a hand-out before the First Chamber. Finally, Mr President, I would like to add that we want to vote on the amendment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	I have previously argued that we should work in particular in Brabant with an undermining fund. We get the income from that fund from the assets we take from criminals. In view of the coverage proposed by Mrs Van Toorenburg, I assume that the CDA is also in favour of this proposal from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	We have talked about this several times. Indeed, I think it is important that the provinces should be allowed to keep the revenues of the extra investments they make themselves. It is actually the same debate as the debate on the boas and the municipalities. The boas do work for the municipalities, but the fines they...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	The Special Investigation Officers! There are also people who follow us elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	You are quite right, Mr President. The special investigators are the people who issue the fines, but then the proceeds go to the Empire. Indeed, I think it is very important, and it is right for the VVD to say again today that these revenues should eventually come back to those local authorities that are taking an extra step to make it safer. That's a great idea!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. In the list of colleague Van Toorenburg you missed one party, the PVV. This is because that party has tabled its own amendment to item No. 9. However, the basis is the same, namely that my group was not convinced in yesterday's debate by the Minister's support. I will not repeat my calculation and my text of the debate. At that time, however, I ended my second term with the announcement that I would not table a motion, but would come up with an amendment to the supplementary budget. This amendment now has part No. 9. Let me explain why it went from six to eight. The reason for this is that something has changed in the explanatory statement. It then went from 8 to 9, because the article was wrong. There is therefore no substantive change. The explanation of the amendment goes without saying. I am now at the end of my speech. However, I shall not end until I have told the Minister that I thank him for the further justification he sent to me in the wake of this morning's general discussion. However, I am not entirely convinced of it. That 12 million-dollar post is in the report, but I'm still not convinced of the 10 million. My group therefore comes to the conclusion that there must be money in the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The amounts are contained in the amendment and the explanatory statement is self-explanatory. I just hope it gets accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. The chair is already ready, so is he. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the warm interest I have experienced again this evening for the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice. We have had many exchanges of views over the last few weeks, and I did not want to repeat all these points. I agree with the Chamber that a robust budget is of great importance for my department. It is particularly important for the important work that the people who depend on that budget have to do with each other. I have spoken to the Chamber about the investments that have been made in a number of areas. In fact, we have not paid so much attention to the enormous investment of more than 700 million, which is being made in the asylum chain. I shall return to that in a moment, when the amendments are being discussed. This investment has actually been a little underexposed. It is an important part of the Spring Note, and it is an important reason why the Spring Note and the supplementary budget will be of great financial importance to my department. We have also talked about the judiciary, the national police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We have shared views on this in detail. I note that the budget for 2016 has been substantially supplemented at two times. This was done during the budgetary procedure last year, and it was done in the spring note this year, both with regard to asylum and with regard to the judiciary and legal aid, each with an amount of 14 million, and with regard to the national police, with an additional amount of 49 million. I have also explained to the Chamber why, in my opinion, there is no reason to add additional funds to this. I come to the amendments that have been tabled. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 3 tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma. This amendment provides opportunities for increasing the post for foreigners. I can be brief about this; the Secretary of State has already responded to this in the direction of the D66 Group. The amendment calls for additional money to start earlier with language lessons for promising asylum seekers. I see, like the Secretary of State, major problems with the question of who is likely to be. Undoubtedly, appeals will have to be open against the possibility or not, since this is a decision of a public body. In this way, the asylum procedure will be further taxed and judicialised. The cabinet's aim is precisely to shorten the asylum procedure, which means that the reason for the amendment is no longer relevant. That is why, like the Secretary of State, I reject the amendment, also because the coverage is not correct; that is what the Chamber is now aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	I take it you have something else to ask, Mr. Sjoerdsma? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and you know that's not my name. The conclusion is, of course, that this is a question of political will, the political will to invest in refugees from day one. We shall see in the votes what the Chamber thinks of that. I am, of course, particularly looking at the PvdA Group. What the Minister said about coverage is remarkable. There are hundreds of millions in an asylum reserve. We want to use this money to invest directly for this group of asylum seekers. Why isn't that cover right? That sounds fantastic. Or is the Minister saying that he needs this money because his own asylum estimates are wrong? If that's the case, I'd like to hear it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	The debate on the asylum estimate can always be held by Mr Van Weyenberg with the responsible State Secretary. In my case, I note that this is a proposal for structural policy, which is provided with one-off cover, namely the asylum reserve. In addition, the asylum reserve is intended for reception in the event of fluctuations in the influx. This need is still topical. That is why the asylum reserve is not intended to finance new policies. That is why I have to stick to the advice: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	The asylum reserve is there and it's bigger than ever. The peak has been happy. Then it's penny wise, pound foolish or, in good Dutch, just a shame to let the opportunity run by investing now save money in the future and give people a good chance? If the Minister says he needs the money for the asylum reserve, my feeling remains that he apparently does not trust his own asylum estimate. That's the only conclusion I can draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	That conclusion remains entirely on the behalf of Mr Van Weyenberg himself. I have indicated that the scope of the amendment is also contrary to the policy of the Cabinet to ensure that the asylum procedure is as short as possible. I also do not hear Mr Van Weyenberg reacting to the remark I made that a decision on who is or is not likely to be able to raise objections and appeals. That too is one of the things the government says are undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	If only that asylum procedure were so short that it could start within a few days, but that is not the reality. I share the Minister's ambition, but he just can't make it happen. I think that's a missed opportunity. I'm sure it's complicated, but it's more than worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	I note that Mr Van Weyenberg and I feel differently about the amendment. I maintain the recommendation to discourage the amendment. In my annotation I miss the amendment to item No. 4. I take it there is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'm gonna go over that with the backup on my right. I suggest that you deal with the following amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	I will continue with the Van Weyenberg/Sjoerdsma amendment to item No. 5, and I can be brief about that. This amendment aims to provide pre-school care for young children in asylum-seekers' centres. This is a task for the municipalities, and they have also received funding from the budget of 361 million for educational deficits. There is also room for this in the Development Agreement Increased Asielin Stream concluded with the VNG, which amounts to 353 million in total. I see no reason to let the COA take over the tasks assigned to the municipalities. Here too, I have just had an exchange of views with Mr Van Weyenberg on the question of structural policy with one-off coverage. The asylum reserve is not intended for this purpose, and for that reason I would advise against the amendment to item No. 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	There is no amendment on item No. Four, so we're all up to speed. Go ahead, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	It won't work with my name, Mr. Chairman. The minister and I don't agree on the cover. But research shows that two thirds of children with a status in an asylum-seekers' centre get nothing, because municipalities only get funds when people are registered in the basic administration, and that does not happen as long as someone is still in an azc. If they had a home, the problem did not indeed play, but unfortunately that is not the case for about 2,000 children. Is the Minister not prepared to ensure that children with a status or promising children, for example from Syria, receive one pre-school education from day one? In practice this does not happen, while young children can often learn to speak Dutch very well in a few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	I have just explained to Mr Van Weyenberg how the government feels about this. The starting point is that school and pre-school care is a task of the municipalities. I see no reason to think otherwise, not even after Mr Van Weyenberg's further explanation. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	I get that. Once again, we are going to vote tomorrow, and I will be interested to see if the PvdA Group will stand up for these children. This is about the fact that this offer is not there at all for a group of children. The Minister may disagree with me about the coverage; that is possible. But the Minister claims that there is an offer, while in practice there is no offer, not even for children with status residing in an azc. I would like the Minister to respond to that fact. I find it interesting to hear what the policy of this cabinet is, but the practice is that it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	I take note of Mr Van Weyenberg's comment. I have nothing to add to the reasoning I have just given him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	I take it that Mr Van Weyenberg does not regard that as an answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	All my information shows that as long as children are still in an azc, even though they have a status, there is no money for them to go to the municipalities, because those children are not yet in the basic administration. So these kids are falling apart. I would appreciate it if the Minister could go into that factual point and let me know if I am wrong or if he himself might have to ask internal questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	I am always willing to look at that, but my information is that people who are not status holders of municipalities can also get an offer for this form of education. That really is a responsibility of the municipalities, and we should not draw them to the government. I come to the Helder amendment to item No. 6, which was first amended in the amendment to item No. 8 and then in the amendment to item No. 9. That amendment calls for an additional investment in the national police and in the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is covered by the foreign mail. That is the opposite of what Mr Van Weyenberg has just proposed. I indicated earlier in the debate on 15 June that as a director and responsible minister, I see no need for additional resources in 2016. This also means that it is not possible to apply the proposed coverage, as the money made available through the Spring Note and the Supplementary Budget is necessary to finance the costs of the asylum chain in 2016. I also did not recommend the same motion tabled on 15 June. I must advise against this amendment both on substantive grounds and in terms of coverage. I now come to the Van Toorenburg and others amendment. in piece No. 7, which has also been submitted on behalf of Mr Swinkels, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Segers, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Van der Staaij. That amendment increases the national police budget by EUR 134 million. There is 30 million euros to justice and 20 million euros to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NFI. The cover for this is found in the settlement with the telecom company Vimpelcom. On 15 June, I pointed out to Mr Buma in the debate the agreement on large settlements made with the Minister for Finance. This agreement means that the budget of V and J has been structurally increased by 100 million and is therefore no longer dependent on highly variable revenue from large yields. This means that more revenue from the so-called Vimpelcom transaction has been used in the spring note to compensate for other setbacks in the state budget. As a result, expenditure remains within the agreed expenditure framework. Using these resources for the criminal justice chain, in line with budgetary policy, would also require redirections elsewhere in the state budget. That means that cover is simply not there. For this reason, and for the reasons stated earlier, I must advise against the amendment, although I appreciate the willingness to further strengthen my budget in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	I see people coming forward who I do not see under the amendment! Anyway, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Minister says he appreciates the efforts, but what is that appreciation worth? We discussed this Minister's budget in November. We have tabled motions, and on the condition that they would be adopted and that there would be extra money in the spring note, we have supported that budget, but in the end nothing has happened to those motions. The Minister did not implement them. Two weeks ago, we had a debate on this. We are not going to do that again, but another motion was tabled that said that there should be extra money, because that is not possible. An amendment has now been tabled. Is the Minister still saying that he doesn't have to, or is his argument that he doesn't think the coverage is entirely sound? I am not quite clear what the Minister is saying here. And what, after the intensive debate of two weeks, did the Minister try to find a possible solution himself with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	If I'm right, I'm counting four questions in one interruption. In the previous debate, on 15 June, a motion was tabled asking for an increase in the budget of EUR 200 million. That motion has not been accepted. In the debate, we discussed in detail whether the motions tabled were carried out in the spring paper. I also indicated that the debate on the budgets for 2017 and should continue with the Millions Note and the budget handling of my department in the autumn. In my opinion, as I indicated in detail in the debate on 15 June, these motions were indeed carried out. A structural investment has been made in my budget and I think the result for 2016 is acceptable. I take responsibility for that. At the end of the journey, I come to the conclusion that all of this does not give rise to any different thinking about this amendment, either in terms of content or coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	The fact that these motions have not been carried out is a fact. There's really no discussion about that. It is also clear that I feel betrayed by the Minister on behalf of the SP. Those motions were not carried out, but under those conditions we supported the budget at the time. The Minister is now saying that he does not actually see that there are financial gaps in the police, that the Public Prosecutor's Office is already over the water and that this year's equity of justice is sinking. I find it really incredible that the Minister still doesn't see it. What has the Minister done with the Minister of Finance in the last two weeks since that intensive debate in order to find solutions and do this hand-in-hand with this broad opposition, which demands this from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	This is again a large number of questions. I'll try to trace them all. I cannot escape repeating the debate, because Mr Van Nispen also put the same questions in the debate on 15 June. Mr Van Nispen says he does not want to repeat the debate, but he asks the same questions and I will give the answer. I have indicated that there is a problem with the Public Prosecutor's Office for 2016 and that I am in good consultation. The Chamber received a letter on this matter today. I have shown in the letter again what intensifications have been done in recent years and in the next few years in the Public Prosecutor's Office, compared to the efficiency contribution requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Chamber will undoubtedly have seen that. She'll see there's a lot of investment in the state's attorney's office. At the same time, you are able to make less costs. You can do that if you reorganise; so does the Public Prosecutor's Office in the framework of OM 2020. The state's attorney's office is working hard on that. This year there will be further discussions with the Public Prosecutor. With regard to the national police, I have explained in detail in general terms today and in last night's debate that I think it is justified to ask the Chief Constable to look at steering for just over 50 million and to take into account windfalls, if there are any. I have also explained that the national police's own funds are sufficient to cover a possible deficit in 2016 without risks leading, for example, to a recovery plan. I've discussed that in detail. We have already indicated that we are talking with the judiciary about the price and cost negotiations for 2017 and subsequent years. They will be taken up in the Millions Note and in the budget of my department. So we can still talk about it in detail. All in all, there is no reason to think differently about the amendment than about the motion tabled on 15 June, about the thoughts we exchanged yesterday on the national police and on the other elements of my budget. I would like to point out that, in the meantime, more than 700 million additional funds are being made available in the budget, including for the asylum issue, which I know Mr Van Nispen attaches great importance to. I'm always talking to the Minister of Finance. We do so in good agreement. I will not make any statement on the content of this. Mr Van Nispen will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	I have heard the Minister's detailed objections to the amendment. It was mainly about the cover and, as he said, other objections. It's two-and-a-half. If the minister says the cover isn't right, there'd be coverage to talk about. Or he's saying that those additional objections could be that he doesn't need that money. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	I believe that we discussed this in detail on 15 June and in the last few days. I just repeated it and I'll repeat it again...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	I do not really feel that we are repeating ourselves over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	I can't escape it, because I have just explained in detail why I think 2016 is justified. Mr Segers asks me to explain that again. I'd be happy to, Mr. Chairman. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	I do, because we have more on the agenda tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	This is a serious question. We have had a wide-ranging debate in which we have discussed the concerns of the various departments: the case law, the prosecutor's office and the police. Those concerns have been expressed with us. I can only imagine that the Minister also spoke to these people, even after the debate, and she asked what the gaps were, what the problems they brought to the attention of the people were. Then he can't get away with the story that he doesn't need it now, if those services have sounded the alarm so penetratingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	I'm talking to all the organizations. I do that every day. This morning, I spoke with the State's Attorney General and the national police on a very large number of issues, including, of course, funding for future activities. That's an ungodly conversation. That happens every day. I'll talk to the chief of police, maybe three times a week, and so will the D.A.'s office. The price negotiations for 2017 and beyond are now taking place with the judiciary. So that's an ungodly process. However, I have been very clear about 2016. I have explained precisely to each organisation why I do not think there is any reason to give extra funding at the moment, and I am also very realistic in what its consequences are. Good conversations are taking place. I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	The current state of the debate is that six parties are actually seven parties, because the PVV has its own amendment, which says: Minister, we have listened carefully to you, but we think that it is all too shaky and that money should be added. Isn't that really a huge support for the Minister of Security and Justice to go back to the cabinet and say that the Chamber wants to see a little bit of press and ask if it can do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	I already told you. I have started by saying that I very much appreciate the interest in my budget and that I also appreciate the commitment of the Chamber to a robust budget of my department. However, as Minister, I have to assess what is now ahead of 2016. That is a substantial investment in my department: over 700 million in the asylum chain and over 200 million in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Those are substantial amounts of money. This also includes 14 million for legal aid, 14 million for justice and 49 million for the national police. That's all gonna add up. I discussed that package with the Chamber on 15 June, today, last night and now again. I'd be happy to. I come to the conclusion that it must be possible this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	The Minister has indeed made this clear in detail, but on the basis of calculations and stories he has taken. We, as representatives of the people, are always getting signals from all these services, much more than in other years, that it is not going to work, that it is not enough and that it needs real money. What does the Minister ultimately do with that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	I have already said that, of course, I am taking this signal into account in the debate on the 2017 budget and beyond. As far as 2016 is concerned, I said that I think this should be possible. I'll take responsibility for that. As far as 2017 is concerned, I have already stated in detail that if an additional investment were to be made, on top of what we have already done, in the order of 300 million tonnes, I would have read that amount in the media, just like the Chamber, I would have been very gilded with it. I could really take an extra step with that. I would very much like to have that debate with the Chamber, bearing in mind this support and bearing in mind the motions, for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	Short, if not repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	If that money is already provided for 2017 and is available and there is such a strong call for it to be brought forward because it can already be used so well, why not deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	Because I believe and believe that the total investment that has been made this year, both in the budget and in the spring note, is sufficient to enable my organisation to borrow for this year's needs. That is what I have consistently reported to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	Of course, it's still a little weird. Don't push it, take it. However, when the Justice Council summit, the Public Prosecutor's Summit, the leadership of the Dutch Forensic Institute and the police summit all say that they need that money and seven parties say so, the Minister says: no, we are waiting quietly. I do have a question about that money. The Minister flirts here again with that money for next year. Then I'd say start now. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance said: well, that money is only in pencil. We would rather have euros in our pocket now, now police officers in our hands, than those vague promises made by the Minister for next year. Can he guarantee that money's gonna come? After all, his colleague from the finance department said yesterday that it is actually only in pencil and that you can also erase it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Van Weyenberg is in the Chamber long enough to know that we are talking about the 2017 budget. He's now saying the NFI is asking for extra money, but he's not getting anything. I can remind him that's not right. In the 2016 budget, the NFI has received EUR 5 million in structural terms for the coming years in order to be able to make additional investments in a number of areas. That is precisely because I felt that an additional investment in the NFI was necessary. We have discussed this extensively in general consultation on the NFI. That's the way I work. I'm gonna find out if there's a need, I'm gonna have some tests done, and I'm gonna have them validated. I take the conclusions of this into account in the 2016 budget, the Spring paper, the supplementary budget and the discussions with colleagues in the Cabinet on the 2017 budget and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	That remains very strange, because the Minister himself says he's busy for next year. By the way, the Minister himself started about 2017 and not the Chamber. The minister started the flirtation by saying he had extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	I heard. He started it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, then, my group's question is whether that money really exists. Or is the minister flirting with money that might come? How are we supposed to deal with the fact that yesterday the Finance Minister said that money can still be spent in pencils? Why doesn't the Minister just answer that question now? Is that money gonna get wiped out? Can the Minister guarantee that the money will be there today? I prefer it from today, but at least I want it to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Weyenberg. He's asking the same question. I would like to point out that I did not express the quote 'I have extra money' that Mr Van Weyenberg has given me. That's not how the system works in this room. I have read that there may be an investment of 300 million. If that were the case before 2017, I will be extremely gilded with it, because I think I can find a good place for that. However, we are only having this debate with the budget and with the Millions Note and not before, as Mr Van Weyenberg knows very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	The various political parties are often very keen on this minister, but now they are acting together. Why do we do that and why is it always less sharp? That's because the Minister told the Chamber that there are serious gaps. The state's attorney's office is still looking for money. The chief of police has been ordered to look for money. So there's no money yet. There's exhaustion from reserves. There's a search, while the security services need attention to the primary process. That makes this complete opposition so reasonable and indicates that it sees that there are gaps. She calls on the Minister to pick up this glove and close the holes. Why isn't the Minister picking this up? He hasn't taken care of it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	I very much appreciate that Mrs Van Toorenburg is asking this question as well as her involvement in my budget, but I also have to go back to the list on this question, namely that there is a budget that I think is responsible for 2016 and that, as always, discussions will take place in the current year. We are also going to look at them wisely, but I do not see any reason to have a different opinion on the amendment, for the reasons I have indicated, including its coverage and its justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	That is a choice, but the opposition makes a very compelling appeal to let those responsible for the security chain focus on the execution and not on the search for money. This is the handout the Chamber is doing. If the minister doesn't want to take it, it's very sad for our security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	I shall, of course, leave that whole conclusion on Mrs Van Toorenburg's behalf. Again, I greatly appreciate her involvement, but I would like to remind her that we are investing more than 5 billion euros in 2016 in the national police force, almost 1 billion in the judiciary and 450 million in the Public Prosecutor's Office. That can't be seen as amounts that don't matter. It is a substantial part, more than half of my budget, which is invested year after year in the important services that guarantee our security in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	That concludes this debate. I thank the Minister for the answers. We shall vote tomorrow on the amendments tabled.
