ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46300	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 84 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for working under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the National MP Milica Radovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representative of the motion of Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society and Verica Karanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, called for the meeting of both Ministers of Economy and Regional Development, Nebojsa Ćirić and Goran Petković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Marjanović, Renata Pinjo, Milan Josipovic, Assistant Ministers of Economy and Regional Development Jasmina Roskovic, Vera Janković – Head of Department, Stanka Radan, Ljiljana Milić and Slavica Višnić – Group managers, Nevena Subašić and Vojin Jović – Advisors at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46301	We're continuing our work. We move to the 23-29rd item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE CONFORMATION OF AZERBJAN ON TRADE AND ECONY SARADNY, WITH BiH AND EGIPT ON SARISM AND WITH THE EGIPT ON THE ECONOMY, TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC SARADNJI (joint single search) The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46302	Ladies and gentlemen, ratifications of the economic co-operation agreement are certainly not topics that require a lot of replication, and today I have no intention of making this issue a political issue. But yesterday's discussion about my mention of Belarus in a context that doesn't match the facts prompted me yesterday to answer and to say today why I mentioned Belarus and what the effects were. I looked at the stenogram and there are certainly 20 things that are most vulgarly expressed as an argument for the country's carelessness in economic co-operation relations for countries. I'm not going to look back at them, but I'm going to tell you what it was yesterday that made me feel like a minister in this government and a responsible man in the state. Please don't share us with friends and enemies of European countries. Do not divide between countries with which we have signed economic co-operation agreements into similar and inadequate. Do not insinuate that we have in the economy those who favor us and friends, and on the other hand those who are our enemies, who drive us into some agreements and contracts to harm our country. Those facts just don't stand, and today I want to say it. I mentioned Belarus because the facts with which as an engineer are always and 100% accurate and which were familiar to me because only a week ago I chaired the Mixed Commission of Serbia and Belarus in Minsk and I was able to state with confidence the indicators of improving economic co-operation. Otherwise, with Belarus, we have extraordinary economic co-operation, very friendly relations, very constructive exchange and data, and at the commission meeting, I can tell you that the atmosphere was more than friendly and not related to parties but to improving economic co-operation between the two countries. For your information, 44 agreements have also had significant effects with many European countries. I asked for information from both European countries on how much increased economic co-operation is compared to the same period last year. Unfortunately, last year, as you know, was a year we cannot boast of because it was a year of economic crisis both for us and for countries in the environment and for the EU country. But compared to last year, we have a 14.5% increase with Germany, with Italy 42.7%, with Austria 25.6%, with France 28.8%, with Great Britain 47%, with Slovenia 34.1%, with the Czech Republic 30% and these are the effects of these institutional frameworks that are established through international agreements that define bilateral co-operation between countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46303	Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46304	Mrs Kalanovic, when it's all so nice, I thought I wasn't relying on this mantra that you've been repeating for years that everything is growing here year after year, but it would be nice to explain to the public and to these MPs sitting here – when you're so much promoting economic relations that your inflation is at the upper border, or will it cross at the end of the year? How this budget deficit can be 4% by half a year, and then you project it for the end of the year to be 4.7% or in translation into dinars of 120 billion budget deficits, and you're promoting economic co-operation with the world. The precondition for stopping inflation and deficits is an increase in exports. Explain that relationship to me. As for Belarus, don't teach us in the SRS that they're our friends. You should have understood that in 2000, so today you wouldn't have an exchange of 80 million, but 800 million with those countries, but you put those countries in the second and third plans by selling fog about the EU, and today you're taking on a straw strangler for Belarus, Azerbaijan, China and Russia, so you seem to have told me yesterday. One more thing, I didn't share anyone here in yesterday's discussion with friends and enemies. In yesterday's discussion, I didn't charge any foreign states. I accuse your government of acting irresponsiblely, which does not protect the national, economic and all other interests of this country and has done everything possible to make this country lose political credibility in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46305	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46306	Mrs Dejanović Djukic, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46307	You have 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46308	Thank you very much, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Since you have prepared for this debate, Mrs Djukic, you as Parliament Speaker should have some basic respect to listen to what MPs say. I would ask you, on the basis of the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Malta and the Government of the Republic of Malta on mutual incentive and protection of investment. It's an agreement signed on 2 July 2010. You sent me the bill. Tell me, who signed this on behalf of Serbia? Take your copy, and tell me who signed this agreement. Is this a secret agreement? He says – for the government of RS stutter, there is nothing. For the government of Malta, another kitten, there's nothing. Who signed this on behalf of the RS? No smile. What? I'm not a cepidlaka, I'm an international contract. You must know who signed on behalf of the RS? If it's not written here, please, then I can say that you work as The Hague tribunal. Here's their public document and their readjusted versions. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, what is going on with international law. Here, this is a decision of international law. Read what it says here. It's all dark. And here, what the government of the Republic of Slovenia was doing, it was all darkened on white. All white, empty. I can conclude that this is a spare location for the ministers to escape. I wanted to start a debate so the ministers would be taken away from the passports by official duty, so they wouldn't escape from this country. Please, call Gendarmes, let him figure out who signed this? Who signed this? How can we argue when we don't know who represented Serbia? I'm moving on, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, since these are difficult philosophical issues. You see, in this set of seven laws, just to tell you Mrs. Djukic, since you're not in progress, you haven't been informed since they've been sanded by that swine flu, all state officials have been uninformed. The Czech Republic recognised Kosovo's independence on 21 May 2008. Malta did it on 21.08. In 2008, and not to tell you any further, since in these seven points of the state that told the whole world, we do not recognise Serbia in the whole territory of RS, which is defined by the Constitution and Resolution 1244. It's a message from the Czech Republic. It's a message from Mlata. Now to remind you, what did the gentlemen say, I apologize, Boris Tadic, I apologize, Ivica Dacic. On 18 October 2008, they signed a Declaration of Political Reconciliation and Common Responsibility, etc. Ended with a nice sentence, respected citizens of RS, that is the final word, says - a common vision of the future and the determination of the civilization frameworks in which this future will take place. So, your future, the citizens of the RS, is going to happen in the civilizational frameworks designed by the gentleman, we don't know who, he didn't sign. What shame did the government have to say about who signed this contract? Are you ashamed of this man who signed this contract? Or is that, according to Vladan Batic, who kept saying that the embassy in Malta should be opened? Please don't, this is the National Assembly. What else are these signatories of national reconciliation? I don't know what reconciliation. This is reconciliation by the system, Tadic says – I'm sorry we delivered Milosevic. Hansel says we could've done it sooner. That's the apology. All of Slobin's personnel against him are now in power. Here's what they wrote, how they're going to lead the foreign policy of RS. It says – KiM will remain an integral part of Serbia, and the fight against its secession is the primary national task. These support secession – Malta and the Czech Republic. How do you fight them? How? What are you developing for good, friendly economic relations? When I hear in this government - friendly and economic relations with a country, I immediately think about organized crime. Organized money removal from RS. It's the only thing that can be more motivated than respecting the Constitution and fighting for Kim. Then, as a highlight of all this comes the original lie of the European Commission, which says in the report -- Serbia has a stable power. There is also a broad correlation in the definition of political parties, both the authorities and the opposition, over the strategic goal of EU membership. Never will Serbian Radicals vote for the EU, while you take RS territory, ever. But the EU needs to lie. When were we defined for the EU, for those who take away our KIM? Tomorrow, Raska, the day after tomorrow, the Vojvodina, the Naksumadi, will remain a filigree, a Belgrade circle of two. This is the road led by Mrs. Verica Kalanovic. May I remind you, in 2000, of Russia's mention of the words, the Resistance raises all of Serbia against power. To mention the words of Belarus, the pro-European and pro-American opposition in Serbia is rising to protest. You're not consistent. Which you're only consistent with. In love with money. Because of your love of money, you're capable of doing everything. Has anyone informed the citizens of RS, given the King's earthquake, what kind of international assistance has arrived? Remember, wherever the country trembled, two percent of Richter's, Serbia separated from its misery and misery to send something. What EU countries and worlds have sent assistance to Serbia and the threatened Royals? The singers - yes, well done. Where are these others? Where are your friends? They say they have stable power in Serbia. They don't hide that it's their authority they installed. Let's see what happens next. The previous item of the agenda was one contract, imagine, signed by the minister, and a framework agreement which is a much more significant, state-of-the-art secretary. Whom you sent - the man whose signature absolutely means nothing. The man was an MP in this congregation, here. He was a member of the Survey Committee, when the murder of Pavel Bulatovic was considered. Radio for months, a final report was made, signed, and when he came to the assembly session, he said - I am making a move. Never trust him when he signs something. He was also in that building, in the working group for making the Law on the National Assembly. It worked, it worked and it worked, there was agreement about it, the DS said – not valid and he said – I no longer admit my signature. Who can guarantee that the signature of Miodrag Djindjic applies to this framework agreement that she has concluded? I'm telling you about the experience. You all know that. His signature means absolutely nothing. Let's move on, to see respected citizens of RS, when the EU praises something, what it looks like. You see, two agreements have been signed with Azerbaijan. These two agreements were signed on the same day – 13 May 2010. One agreement was signed in Serbian, Azerbaijani and Russian. We are only given the Serbian version of the bill. It was signed by Mladjan Dinkic. Now, look, just laugh. The same day, another agreement was signed. He was signed in Serbian, Azerbaijani and English. Both Serbian and English versions are given to us. You see, the way it changes, the same day, the same contractors, everything the same, but different. At Bosnia and Herzegovina, he says, in the Serbian and official languages of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here you only give us Serbian. Furthermore, of course, this agreement with Azerbaijan on police co-operation is very important because someone is counting on it to be a spare location when it's thick, because they count on them to be able to hide there, to buy their own freedom. You won't hide anywhere, so you know. There's absolutely nowhere to hide. We'll find you where we are, so you know. We'll find you, make sure, don't think about it at all, I guarantee you. I guarantee you that. There goes performance, like during Sloba, when students went to Santa's to see the dear president, now the young are organizing to go to dear President Tadic's to Dedinje. The gathering of citizens is free, it is the EU's liquid, you can't go against it. A gathering of citizens who want to live, who want to breathe fresh air, who want to see the perspective tomorrow. Well, he can't, they're burned. Mrs. Kalanovic, tomorrow I have a tribune in Little Wet Lug, invite the entire government to come with me. I will talk about the books of Vojislav Seselj, and you talk about the European path of the Republic of Serbia, the liquids, the fine co-operation, the great means that are promised, the wonderful future, only it cannot be caught in the hands. Here, I invite you to go before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from the local community to the local community. I don't mind your political attitude, go nicely, tell your story, you'll make sure the truth doesn't spoil your good story, it's okay with you, hop, some Democrats call me because he doesn't like the speech, they know my cell phone, and then they call me to break me up. You can't interrupt me. You can't interrupt me at all. Why? Well, I've been fighting you for ten years. For ten years I have convinced the people, only the SRS convinces the people, no pride for the citizens of Serbia in these contracts, no pride. Mrs Kalanovic, please, when you are in the government, fight not to accept the customs declaration of an independent state of Kosovo. Mrs. Kalanovic, I invite you personally to tell the government tomorrow that Serbs do not go to the elections because that is how pride is kept. Warn Boris Tadic, he called in 2004, past your party's stance, you were good then, you said – not to the elections, and Tadic called and there were 0.016% of citizens. Change finally these protagonists of Kosovo's secession and Metohija, Oliver Ivanovic. So, you know, your colleague Bogdanovic was the first Serbian in the government of independent Kosovo? The first Serb, Goran Bogdanovic. Who does he serve? Taddice or Thaci? Well, you don't know who he's serving either. And he represents Serbian interests in Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. Come on, please, don't joke. Don't make fun of me. Here, with a little joke about language, about how you prepare these documents, I've shown how unserious it is. Here, in voting day, you will say that you know exactly who signed this agreement on behalf of the Republic of Serbia with Malta, although the public sees it as empty. Why are you going to prove it? You have 126 votes. Well, you can, for God's sake, anything. You can turn 1000-euro free action into 1700 dinars, but you won't admit that course when citizens are supposed to pay for heating. You won't. You won't, in order to prove the fight against organized crime, in the afternoon, arrest, the Dnevnik announces in the evening, and the next morning, let the people go free. Well, that's already been seen. That was a few years ago: "Drum Mafia", "Index Mafia," etc. You're only fighting a media war, you're fighting a media fight, and you're looking to get a better position. In Belgrade heat has jumped, Gilas will not be photographed to publish the news. No, he paints in kindergartens, changes in uniforms, changes in suits, and he came from the Czech Republic, based on this 1997 agreement. The protocol refers to the agreement that allowed a Serbian citizen to develop a planetary business in the Czech Republic and to bring us "Big Brother", "Farme" and other Kerekahs, so that the people will have fun, so that they will not see you take away what little is underneath his fingernails. Of course I'll criticize you. Well, of course I want to provoke you to report for replicas, because after that all television screens are much cleaner. Do you know how stimulating you are to the citizens who are monitoring this transmission? As soon as you pick up and give some high-shrewd opinion, the screens will be cleaned immediately. Of course, the more you talk, the more you do, the better the people find out how wrong this country is. This is what protects citizens' pride? No, you're not protecting the pride of the citizens. There are international standards for all these things. You say - friendly relations with some countries. How can I cultivate friendly relations with the Czech Republic, Malta and others, Croatia, who take my house, apartment, room? What's the matter with you? I took this, when you remind these two, let them take a look at this agreement that they have concluded, signed, this national reconciliation, etc., here's what they have written – and in EU membership they have not written membership, but accession. In 2008, too, they were aware that none of it had anything to do with it. Not to read to you, respected pensioners, what they promised you then and wrote down. Not to tell you, let's say, the economy has to be restored by all available funds, foreign reserves, written. Where's your foreign reserve? Last year you signed an agreement with the IMF, which is not ratified here, you said – that agreement is needed to protect the course of the National Bank. They moved that money to Delta, and Delta credits you. How did it start? It began with the first agreement with Switzerland in November 2000 in the Republic Assembly. The government of Switzerland will help us increase our share of the IMF and the World Bank. It's a time when you didn't know how to charge that check Libya sent. You know, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, in 2000, the first check and first aid to Serbia was from Gaddafi, a million and a half dollars. No one wanted to take that check into their hands. No one even knew how to charge it. No one even knew how to get that money into this country. Now you're going, and you're taking pictures, and you're developing co-operation. How do you develop co-operation with your enemies and your friends with the SRS? To steal our friends? You think, like Milo Djukanovic, that in Montenegro he took over the ideology of that Liberal Alliance, he drove these out and now he's pushing. Here, and he's changing, you hear? They promised the EU they'd move him too. Krinakapic said a few days ago - the EU can no longer suffer this organised crime because they have also ruined their officials. How come no ambassador ever leaves Serbia again? They interrupt their mandate, they stay here, and Montgomery, I hear, and this Englishman is preparing to stay here. What the hell are you doing? Where's your country? Where is this people in your visor? Do you have a people in the visor? You don't. This government doesn't see people, it absolutely doesn't see people. Then the next assignments started in 2001, 35% of the consulting services you were giving, and then you took care of everything with a succession, and then the Paris Club and the London Club went and we came to 11.5-12 billion public debt today. Well done! You yourself know that from 1985 to 2000 Serbia couldn't even be in charge, and then some smart mind comes out with statistics on GDP, on debt compared to GDP, and only forgot one thing, that in 2001 the calculation changed and the changed statistics as GDP is calculated. How long have you been with these scams? I record everything to you, I absolutely record everything to you, when you said what you said, what you did, what you did, why you did, who you lied to, who you lost. Why? To understand the citizens of Serbia. Whoever believed DOS got himself killed. Everyone who helped DOS come to power in prison is. All those entering with crisis headquarters, believing DOS, have lost their jobs and are now in a vacuum space between 50 and 67, when they will be entitled to retirement. What are the poor people doing in their 20s? What do they live on? From the new containers? They're a little lower now, so when you get in, you can come out, not that high, you fall down, so you can't get out. This is your policy. It is based on principle – where you see B92, police and yellow shoes, run away, something bad is happening. Where did you bring this country? What are you boasting about? All your results are defeated for the citizen as an individual, for the local community, for the street, for the settlement, for the city, for all possible criteria. Now it's the main subject of smoking, so force it. Last night was the main topic -- something says on the taraba that it would happen with MPs in 2012 and then too serious a B92 drop. Let's raise money for B92, even if they have shampoos to wash their hair. You're funding them, Mrs. Kalanovic. About 120,000 euros each month, the G17 plus via its satellite provides that television. You're saying it's not? Of course it is. I read the National Employment Service report, what you transferred to them, that money. What happened? Bloggers kicked your ass. Yet normal people look and say – aman, how far do these scams go? It's all clear to people. You got him to the store, he's got nowhere else to go. Now you're just looking if you can find some alternative variant, how to double-cross people with fairy tales and stories about the EU, the NATO Pact, etc. How much did the United States give as the first intervention aid to the King? How many Great Britains? How much France? How much Germany? How much did you give? How much did you get? I invite passionate artists, I invite actors, I invite ordinary citizens to show basic solidarity and to help the Royals. That's what I'm calling for, "in and in their beaks", so you can do that 10m euros. Do you know who I mean, Mrs. Kalanovic? What you took away for what, you know. You're looking for the one where he is. That one, you know where he is? At his grandfather's residence in Boris Tadic, and to cover up that fact he goes everywhere and only apologizes, so he wouldn't be suspicious of hiding. The other day, they were talking about who retired here. So who was the Secretary of Defense? What the hell are you people talking about, man? Let's turn the discussion on another matter and the state's on fire. There's nothing, everything's breaking apart, sorrow and misery. The pride of this people, those who want to live in the Republic of Serbia, must be raised a little, they want to fight for their positions here, because they do not have a spare state, they do not have their offices in Brussels and elsewhere. They'll have to organize somehow. The sooner we get organized, the sooner we want to live in the Republic of Serbia, the sooner we get rid of this unnatural regime that doesn't see people, he sees statistics, and the important thing is that the teacher commended him. Whether a teacher from Brussels, whether or not a teacher from Washington, doesn't matter, but when they praise you, that's great. Then you're making a mess like this with the unions. We'd accept that it's a union, but the IMF won't allow it, and then the IMF's planetary force falls out. Here you have guaranteed the principle of sovereignty, that you are a government that respects sovereignty and territorial integrity to the board. Of course, I'm doing everything I can to get you out of power, all of it, and not to let some of the others who are worse than you might be. We will remove you from power, we radicals when it suits us, when the people are for us, because we are the only ones against this path of yours and no one else. Everybody just smile. The more you laugh, the more your mood will grow. I hope that after these 20 minutes and a few minutes Mrs Slavica Djukic has found an answer to the quiz question – who signed on behalf of the Republic of Serbia? If you found out, then you had to get this back. This isn't well done. You know, this doesn't meet the terms of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, very important, since you adopted the new Rules of Procedure, you have said - all laws require a statement of compliance with EU rules. Of course, I don't call you when you don't put that argument on. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to write anything about it, but sometimes you try to boast that you respect the Rules of Procedure in some other laws and write for all the laws that there is no basis, no reason, no obligation to comply with EU standards, and somewhere you write that there is no EU standard. You know, mild advice, it's a little contradictory with your parole, and your parole is – the EU has no alternative. When you say the EU has no alternative, I just get the impression that Tomica Milosavljevic was importing the vaccine something wrong, because these diapers are acting weird to me. You see, ever since the Peltzovana government, something strange's been going on. I didn't know Boris Tadic was so sinful, wherever he went, he just apologized. What was he doing when he was young? We're so sorry. We're so sorry. He's just apologizing to the poor one. So, Mrs Kalanovic, tomorrow, when you're in the government, say, "The Little Wet Lug will promote the beautiful books of Vojislav Seselj." You don't want to talk about it, I know you hate it, since you belong to that group that asked to be delivered to The Hague. The second point will be -- government representatives to explain the European path to the citizens of Little Wet Lug. I guarantee you absolute security, so you know, there won't be any offensive words, there's everyone listening closely. What they'll remember, I don't know. Is there anything he can remember, I don't know. But I encourage you to prepare well. That's where I'll give you this as well as stealing money through quizs. There I will also give you what was written for 300 and some million from Cyprus, what Moby 63, what Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic got and didn't send to the MPs, and you gave it to me. Thank you. I need this book on crime in the Republic of Serbia after 2000, so I can complete that documentation, just to be transparent. What do we have to hide here anymore? There's nothing more to hide. You saw that protocol. Have you seen the Agency for Business Registers? Moby 63, no record. There's no paperwork. How could a company be registered if there was no documentation? Is that European fluid maybe? Who knew it was possible to register a company without documentation in Europe? Unbelievable. So, only by your means. How? I present the facts and invite you to the replica, but I urge you to replicate Tadic, Dacic, Dinkic, Mrs Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, because I only quote what you wrote. As you can see, there is no greater promoter of the EU than I am. I call on everything the EU has written. I call upon everything, you swore, you told them to bleed that it had to end. I'm just reminding you, some of you have been watching you, I don't meet these conditions to observe you, yet I'm a lawyer, I'm not some other profession, but to know what it is, transparently, clearly. Here you go, Mrs. Djukic, I'd like to buy you a few minutes to go to the EU as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46309	Since you know the Rules of Procedure well, it is obvious that you have referred me questions to the Government rather than to me. Secondly, I'm glad that you're thinking about your future. Political pensioners should write. Hope Kolundji has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46310	Your Honor, Madam President, I'm calling for article 103 and 106. The Rules of Procedure, under which you are obliged to warn the People's MP who does not stick to the subject, that he is obliged to stick to the subject. The fact that the MP doesn't know what he's talking about, that's his problem. But it's your duty to instruct him that what he doesn't know about what he's talking about is still about the subject of the agenda. So, here a man can express all his weaknesses, all his ignorance, all his confusion, that's his thing, but it's the responsibility of the chairman to return every MP to what's on the agenda and no one can talk completely lost in the subject, whatever else he thinks I want to say, so, the truth is, the duty in the time that the previous MP was talking about was 120%, Serbia's today's duty is 36%, just enough to see which valuable parameters are being discussed here, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the attack on Mr. Miodrag Djidic is probably some obsessive state that has some kind of personal basis. What is a fact is that the European Commission has highly praised the progress made in customs reform, that it has greatly praised the results that customs have achieved lately, and that is one of those assessments, as well as for the military reform, which the European Commission has assessed has made to make progress in the countries that can be compared to the countries of Europe, and this is, among other things, the merit of Mr Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46311	Mrs. Kolundjia, on many occasions, the two of us cannot agree on my way to conduct the session. I think the citizens are choosing us here and they need to see how, as elected representatives, we are doing our parliamentary activities. It seems to me that every man has his own domains within which he can do so and that it is good for those who have chosen us to gain insight into it. If you think I should have broken up on multiple occasions, I did it once, and this explanation isn't enough, we can be clear in the voting day about whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have the advantage, Mrs. Radeta. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46312	You see how you don't exactly take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, because you don't follow how MPs appear, and I report on the basis of article 27. Rules of Procedure. You, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, are under the obligation to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and, among other things, you must make sure that MPs receive orderly proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not true what you just said to your colleague Krasic, that it's a matter for the government. What does that mean, the government can deliver us anything, you have no obligation to watch it? That's not true. So you are obliged to make sure that what comes from the Government is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure before it reaches the MPs. So you're obliged to tell who signed the agreement. I don't want to talk about how much you've hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, and it is. I'm sure you're aware of that. It is true and thank God that all of us will retire, be political, be retired on the basis of work experience, maybe we will go to early political retirement, but be sure we will never betray our ideology and never betray our president, even if it costs us early retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46313	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, that document was delivered, a proposal for the act we were talking about, of course I know that the authorised representatives of both governments, were signed by the foreign ministers, but you know that the Legislative Committee, because of the president's disease, is not working, and that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee is actually taking care of the reasons, the remarks that Mr Krasic spoke about. And you and he know it well. Just a moment, please, first Mr. Zoran Krasic answered, and then Srdjan Milivojevic. Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46314	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I report to the Rules of Procedure because the president is a parliamentary group for the so-called "So-called Group". European Serbia, Mrs. Hope Kolundzija, injured the Rules of Procedure, violated the Parliament's dignity, abused the right to replication. I listened very carefully, and I think you should have warned her, because she told her colleague Krasic that he was completely lost in the topic. I think, Mrs. Kolundzija, that somehow you went astray in time and space, if you hadn't followed your colleague Krasic, who spoke first of all with a brilliant 29-minute exposure about a messy document that arrived in the Assembly. This is the first time, Mrs Kalanovic, indeed that an international agreement without the signature of the person who signed it on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia has come to the Assembly. You have no reason to be so bitter about your colleague Krasic and the Serbian Radicals, because when that line is drawn and drawn after ten years, we have to point out to you all your failures and the fact that you are leading a destructive policy, from our point of view, and now more and more citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are explicitly against Serbia's entry into the EU. I think that's what hit you the most, because my colleague Krasic has argued that the citizens are in charge, what kind of agreements you signed. This is a bigger topic. He started with what's on the agenda today, but looked back on all aspects of the daunting DS and Boris Tadic policy, which he also mentioned in his presentation. You have no reason to insult him in such a way and to say that the MP, as you said, is lost in the subject, etc. The whole of Serbia knows, Mrs. Kolundzija, when it follows 250 MPs, I don't really know, this is one of the biggest gaffs and something you said today, which is probably why your political like-mindeds are laughing at you. If someone follows the meetings of the National Assembly, at least he knows who Zoran Krasic is and that he is one of the most prepared MPs to attend meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46315	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46316	I'm calling again for members 103 and 106. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46317	No, I'll give you a replica, you can't do the same article again. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46318	Dear Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, above all, Honored citizens of Serbia, this is a replica for those who do not understand the Rules of Procedure. I understand Mr. Zoran Krasic's obsession with the Resistance, I understand the obsession of Zoran Krasic, Miodrag Djindjic, I understand the obsession of Mr. Zoran Krasic and the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. But, Mr. Krassic, you stick to that Little Wet Lug, maybe you can cross the censorship there. With such rhetoric in Serbia, you cannot cross the census into Negotin, or Arangelovac, or Vranjska Banja. You're on stable two percent. As Mrs Natasa Jovanovic says, Serbian citizens know who you are. You've been fighting for 10 years, not against us, but for power, but you don't forget what you did when you were in power. You, my dear colleagues, to remind you, the EU has made a clear and loud statement that the biggest shift has been made in customs and that nobody else to Miodrag Djidic and his signature and that it is valid in the EU and that it is valid in this parliament and in the town of Krusevec, from which I come. Mr Krasic, it is true that judicial reform is not well rated in the EU. If the actions were conducted against you, which are being led, then you would be the subject of black chronicles and you would know the citizens of Serbia who follow the black chronicle for your name much better than those who follow the meetings of the Assembly, because you, as minister, are accused of the most serious crimes, while you were minister in this country. Don't give us moral sermons now, because Serbia knows who you are, 110 years old, to go to Little Wet Lug and to fight for power, it won't forget you, you'll be on stable two percent, and that's your assessment of your political impact: sit – one. We'll ask you more.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46319	Mrs. Radeta, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46320	You have again injured the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, or you have not informed the MPs that this Tadic ideologist has become head of the parliamentary group or has been authorised by this agenda point. As far as we know, he's neither, nor had the right to a replica. I'm talking about Article 27's injury. We understand now what offended you, so this is how you react. You have been offended by the fact that counterpart Krasic, and I will repeat, warned Serbian citizens that the SRS is asking that 10m euros, which you intended for some traitor who, God forbid, would betray Mladic, be given urgently to the King and to solve all the problems that exist in the Kingdom in this way. It hurts what Serbian radicals are looking for, but what do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46321	Mrs. Radeta, you haven't called on a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, it is my discretionary right to decide who has the right to reply. My assessment was that Mr. Milivojevic should get a word on that basis and I did. Now there is a word, and again based on the replica, Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46322	Thank you, Mrs Dejanović Djukic. I'm used to all sorts of things in this congregation. In that building, two or three DS deputies cursed my mother, etc. I've got all kinds of epithets sticking to me here. It doesn't hit me, it's the risk of this job I'm doing. I'd just like to draw your attention to one thing. Look, I said one sentence - try not to let the truth spoil your story. You forgot that sentence and it just happened. So as not to spoil the story of Euro-Atlantic integration and Serbia's collapse, you have set out towards me. I agree, I don't deviate from a single word I said, but the basis for every word I said is found in the documents you delivered, so when you replicated to me, and I told you to, take care, attack Ivica Dacic, Boris Tadic and this year's year's. We don't know who he is or what he signed. You've just shown hate, it doesn't surprise me. Why would I be spared your hatred of all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Why should I be spared? When you hate it, you hate it 100%, don't hate it on a spoon. But it doesn't snow when it's time. It snows to see his trail. Now, we're revealing clues, it's painful for you, and of course I'll remind you with as much time as possible, which is more specifically, press-clipping has for each of you. Then it's no wonder some call you specimens. Well, you're examples, examples and examples of something that shouldn't happen in Serbia. Of course, as they have the right in the UK, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, the German Eurosceptic, and I use that right. Why shouldn't I be a European, why should I trust you? I know that everyone who trusts you has died, and I, thank God, have never believed you, nor will I ever believe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46323	Time. No, I realized that Mr Krasic is also taking care of the authority of the truly important politicians of the Serbian scene, Mr Tadic and Ivica Dacic. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46324	Madam President, I just want to point out that you hurt the Rules of Procedure when you didn't give me the last word because calling on a member of the 103rd is my right to point out to you that you hurt the Rules of Procedure because of the fact that the MP who personally addresses the other MP, which was the case in the previous presentation, in the presentation of the previous speaker, after which I reported, did not give a warning, which is your obligation. In that sense, I think it really is a broken Rules of Procedure, because MPs cannot speak directly to each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46325	Please don't throw it away. Mrs. Kolundjia called for a member of 103, and she's right. MP Zoran Babic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46326	Thank you, Madam President, and it's good to be back on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the proposal for a law confirming a tourism co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt consists of three members. In the first article, unlike some other agreements, you inform us that this agreement was signed on 28 May 2010 and was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Jovan Krkobabic. It remains unclear why you and the law have hitched off, for the past six months you have not given it to the congregation procedure. The shortest comment of this Agreement and of the accompanying law is the futility, ferocity in each segment and each member of this bill. A good intention is undeniable and it is seen through exchanges of information from experts in the field of tourism and hotel training, as well as through exchanges of training programmes and curriculas of tourist and hotel universities. However, the final result and effect of this agreement is truly null and I could not, with all due attention, see it. As Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic said yesterday, as soon as there is no report of the expected effects of this agreement, it just means that there are no effects, because I think you would have loudly announced it. It is nice that you, Mrs Kalanovic, informed us yesterday and today about Serbia's co-operation with Belarus, but in order for you to warn someone as you tried yesterday to warn Mrs Tabakovic to stick to the agenda, you must show an example and that you too stick to the agenda, not like this. However, this speaks of your haughtiness. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was on an official visit to Egypt by yesterday. It was established that bilateral co-operation between Serbia and Egypt was excellent, an agreement was signed, a memorandum and a programme, the prime minister met with the Prime Minister of Egypt, Mr Nazif, and Parliament Speaker Ahmed Fahti Surur, and arrived at the opening of an exhibition that was set at the castle of Prince Taz, at least the media announced. In all, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's real tourist visit to the company of Ministers Nebojsa Bradic and Slobodan Milosavljevic, who cost Serbian citizens more than the assistance the Serbian government has given to citizens by the earthquake of the destroyed King. How do others do that, Mrs. Kalanovic? Only a few months ago, the prime minister of Montenegro, Mr Milo Djukanovic, visited Egypt officially. And he, along with the President of Egypt, Mr. Hosni Mubarak, found that co-operation between the two countries is perfect, excellent. However, instead of an exhibition featuring tourist Mirko Cvetkovic, Mr. Djukanovic finished his official visit with the director and president of Orasko Hotels, who in Montenegro is carrying out one of the most significant investments on the Lustica Peninsula. The project, which totals a billion and 100m euros, will build a new luxury modern tourist town with eight hotels, 2,200 rooms, three to five stars, 1,600 apartments, 750 residential villas, shopping zone, health center, two marinas, conference halls and golf courses with eight holes. What is most important in this project, whose realization started in October this year, is that after the construction of this complex, employment in it will receive 10,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Kalanovic, is an agreement, not these worthless papers or some commission or committees you announced to us yesterday. This just means that Egypt has an extremely large, huge investment potential, but also means that the government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to bring that potential to Serbia. The SNS advocates that such agreements monitor investment or that investments follow such agreements and laws. However, I am afraid that the only product of this agreement will be, as you stated in Article 1, an organisation of visiting tourist officials who would be familiar with the tourism potentials of this country. This means that in the coming period, apart from tourists Cvetkovic, Milosavljevic and Bradic, we will have many more state tourists on the cost of Serbian citizens. What does Egypt have besides the sea and the pyramids that Serbia unfortunately does not have? Egypt has answers to all key issues in the field of tourism. Egypt has the Ministry of Tourism, and not only that, but they have opened tourist offices in diplomatic representations in particular in the countries whose population is targeted. Serbia, the truth, has economic diplomats whose work is unknown. The effects of their work, even if they exist, are extremely non-transparent, only known to be on the heavy burden of all the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia and are not alone. I only mention the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency, a fancy named Siepa, which costs Serbian citizens over 400 million dinars annually, and no investment, no foreign investment, no exports at all, that is, less and less. Egypt has excellent infrastructure, nine international airports, all parts of the country are connected by road network, and main routes and modern highways. What is the situation in Serbia? We have one and a half airports, we build highways only in promises and in a pre-election campaign, Serbian railway is a story to ourselves, the most modern segment of the Serbian railway is the Sargan Eight. Imagine a situation where a European tourist will find himself going, say, in Vrnjačka Banja. It will take him two to three hours to fly to Belgrade, then roads along Serbian roads to Vrnjaka Banja, from Belgrade to Vrnjaka Banja for at least one four hours, without any accompanying infrastructure. Will such a tourist come to Serbia? I don't think so, Mrs. Kalanovic, and you're aware of that, too. How long does the Serbian tourist season last? Two months, July and August, and then it was all wrinkled up, and Gucha, and Egzit, and Vranjska carnival, and the Bir festival. For the rest of the time, some congresses and arranged excursions, so they wanted a key in the lock. Look at how our friends in Egypt do it. All international fairs, festivals and tournaments are held between January and March, i.e. between October and December, from the Cairo International Book Fair event in January to the National Fishing Festival in Sharm el Sheik, which is held in November and all this is done and organised to attract visitors out of the official tourist season. Only in Serbia is business policy and business philosophy – we work for two months, and we live for the next ten months. It can't, it's impossible. It's the perpetum of the mobile. An initiative to privatise hotels in Egypt was launched in 1985 and since then, such an climate has been created that attracted foreign investors, so let's say, in just one year, a Algerian company invested $120m in Al Gardek on the coast of the Red Sea. In Serbia, only privatisation has made a real gift of mar. Can you boast at least once with successful privatisation, especially hotels and other tourist facilities? What about Zelenkad on Zlatibor? Does it work after privatisation? It's not working. What about the employees? You don't care. Who made it possible for Saric and his associates to buy hotels on Palic Lake? What about the HTTP "Fontana" from the Vronjska Bane? You treat them as guinea pigs, first failed privatisation, then on the verge of bankruptcy, and then bypassed by restructuring, and now experimental privatisation, and only what is worth in "Fontana" along with a special hospital and all of it under non-existent law, but by experiment, as announced by Mladjan Dinkic in his last visit to Vrnjačka Banja. Now you want to single out the healthiest part of "Fontana", employees, accumulated debts and mortgages in that second disabled part, to attach such "Fontan" to the special hospital "Mercur", the only successful company, within which both Banish Parks and medicinal mineral waters are, and sell it for 10m euros in investments over the next three years. It will be enough, Mrs Kalanovic, to transfer the potential buyer from right to left to 10m euros and will become the owner of not only "Fontana" and special hospital "Mercur", but almost the entire Vrnjak spa. Where's the interest of Vranjska Banja citizens? Where's the interest of local self-government, you almost didn't ask? This was not enough for Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but has committed to filling 75% of the future company's accommodation capacity through the Republic Health Insurance Office. Is that the new Fiat in Serbia? Is it going to be a new company that's going to suck up and this little money that's left in the state? With such conditions, the future company will be able to run a small child. What's going to happen to the employees at "Fontana"? There's a little time left, the ad's been called, the paperwork's been bought out. Take care of what you do. Don't think we're against investment and foreign investment. On the contrary, we need these investments. I think there's still enough unbuilt city building land around Vranjska Banje. Get someone to start a greenfield investment, make a hotel, hire people, bring tourists. I will be the first to praise such a thing, and not as Mladjan Dinkic does, on the right offer, to present the entire Vrnjačka spa. For all things said, in the day of voting, the SNS will vote against these draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46327	The word is Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46328	Dear Mr. MP, for the sake of the public of that part of Serbia to which you and I belong at the birth and place of residence, Vranjska Banje and the environment, and I am only eight kilometers away from you, you must speak the truth. Read a good public call and you'll see it's not privatisation. You know it's not about privatization, but at this point it suits you to say it's privatisation. You know it's a strategic partnership and you know that "Fontan" did not privatise Mladjan Dinkic. On the contrary, the privatisation was broken by Mladjan Dinkic, because it was unsuccessful. Also, you know that both Hotel "Star" and Hotel "Fontana" and Goc and the whole Vranja Banja have long ceased to be attractive places for tourists from Europe and the world, and for God's sake in the past few years and Serbia. Also, you know that the strategic partnership doesn't mean selling Vrnjakska spas, or bathrooms, or parks, but at this point I don't know what your interest is in making false. And you're from that neighborhood, and, as you know, every day I'm at the Vronjska Bane. You know what my connections to Vranja Banja are, and you and I also know that the only model for reviving Vranja Banja is raising the attractiveness of the tourist offer through investments, in this case, from abroad. Also, you know perfectly well that Vranjska Banje representatives can decide on this strategic partnership and have two offers available, to share through the vouchers the properties of the Hotel "Fontana" and special hospitals to the citizens of Vranjska Banja and to raise it themselves and attract foreign investors and make an attractive spa, such as Marijana's fake in the Czech Republic. I don't know if you've been to one of the spas that, according to the country's strategic partnership model and foreign investors, got a whole new look. I am, and that is why I advocate that Vranjačka Banja in the next period gets an investor who will raise her attractiveness to the level of Karl Vari's spa or Marian's fake, because it has potential for that, but we will never know why you're talking about things that Vranjska Banja is pushing over the decades behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46329	Mr. Vlajko Senic. (Zoran Babic, from the site: Replica. ) Before you, you were contacted by Mr. Vlajko Senić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46330	I wanted to respond to allegations that it was a new Fiat, and it's just amazing how one of the biggest industrial investments in Serbia, which happened over the last 20 years, is constantly coming up here in the National Assembly, for no reason whatsoever, and is trying to present itself as some kind of party project. We are proud of what representatives of our party have done to "Fiat" come back to Serbia and participate. If you're following the media, I see you've been well informed about what you know about Egypt, you've seen that in the United States, the president of Fiat has announced the production of two new models in Serbia. The question now arises whether for Kragujevac, a city that is the centre of Šumadija, from which your party's president comes, there was a better time when there was a factory where, not to speak before 2000, hundreds of millions of euros from the budget were put in to preserve social peace or it is better to subsidise a foreign serious strategic partner who comes to Serbia with a desire to export 200,000 cars annually. Which economy you represent guarantees is a better model that means shutting down fire and putting in funds without any highway from that factory. What are you talking about? Give a better proposal or model if you think it is not good for Serbia to have the Fiat in Kragujevac, to export 200,000 cars. Yesterday we talked about it, the state subsidized with 47m euros in employment and new jobs, and that's true, but 600m euros in new investments came to this, 17,500 new jobs came to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46331	The word is Mr. Zoran Babic, and then Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46332	Mr. Senic, we've had enough announcements and good wishes, we want to realize. We want the Shumadi, but the rest of Serbia are working as well. Otherwise, what anyone has announced and what anyone wants, leave it for some campaign and some party stands. For that truth you're talking about, Mrs. Kalanovic, I welcome your bond and your relationship with Vranjska Banja, I'll just quote you something and I'm sure you'll recognize it. "Unfortunately, no "Fontana" can be shared because it is burdened with large debts and mortgages, so you can't sell something that is attractive and leave something that no one will buy and then what with the workers, but this part where you mention building a new "Star" for that, I think, is everyone. I'm from around here, and I get those who would buy a new Star, but not loaded. That's not possible. It is not possible to buy the heart of Vranjska Banja, unburdened to build a five-star hotel and say: I do not care. The whole system will have to be considered. "These are your words, Mrs. Kalanovic. Then you said Vrnjaka Banja is attractive, you said it was the heart of Vrnjaka Banja, and then you suddenly changed your mind and said, yes, we will single out the most important segment from "Fontana". We'll leave the workers, mortgages and debts in the second part and privatize this with a special hospital, Mercury. No one said – don't come to a foreign investor, don't make a system like in Karl's Vari, but don't leave people in "Fontana" along with the debts and along with the facilities of someone on Goč or some peripheral facilities. Don't change your mind every month or two. Have some continuity in what you're talking about. If you don't believe what I read, I also have an audio record of your statements. That's your statement, that's your word, Mrs. Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46333	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46334	I will use the right to make two remarks as soon as possible on behalf of the parliamentary group on what has been stated as an opposition to my colleague Zoran Babic's discussion. Whether something is called strategic partnership or privatisation, Mrs Kalanovic, is not essentially what you call something but what consequences it has. Privatisation was a good process as imagined, and many imagined it as "to be destroyed to build". These are good projects and well-intentioned. It has proved from banking to many privatisation processes that it has collapsed to hate, but it has not been built new. How many jobs remain unopened new ones say there was no construction. How many closed jobs and how much abuse there is says that when you copy examples you can't copy right. Now you're saying that you're going to rewrite the Czech model around the spa, but whether you're going to rewrite it as a Slovak model of subsidies and incentives in which you haven't made reforms, so a good project of "start-ap" resale has turned into abuse of over 200 million dinars and you claim that Mr Dinkic reported them in the same way as he reported abuses in the area of jurisdiction of the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, where citizens were stolen at gas stations. Do you think we Serbian citizens are naive? To let something happen, the event goes on and one of them loses, and one of them gets, and then you realize that at one point to convince us today that the most important thing is who comes from, I yesterday from Novi Sad, today it's important that Babic is from Vranjska Banja. We are all from Serbia, and we all care that reforms do not close but create new jobs. For "Fiat", sir, I don't want to speak personally, not to violate the Rules of Procedure, this country has already given 700m euros for "Fiat" You've formed a government on it. [[President: Mrs Tabakovic, this has been a time of replica, two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46335	Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise their right want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. Does the Minister want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I have already asked, none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word either, so I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law under points 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29 of the agenda. In 15.30 hours, we will continue to discuss the draft Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations, the prevention of elemental disasters and the technical harancies and the removal of their consequences, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Crime Co-operation, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the establishment and functioning of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation. I would also like to inform you that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Malta on mutual incentive and investment protection has been signed by foreign ministers for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vuk Jeremic, for the Government of the Republic of Malta, Mr Tonio Borg. I have the document. I thank the minister and her associates. We'll be back at 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46336	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our session in the afternoon. We move to the 31st-34th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON CONFORMATION OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE AZERBAGIAN FACILITIES, TECHNogenic HAVARIES AND COUNTERBIANS, WITH AZERBJAN ON THE COOPERATION OF THE CRIMINAL FIELDS, WITH THE Bulgarian POLICE SARADS AND THE FUNKCTION OF THE COMMUNITY CONTACT OF THE CENTER FOR THE SARADIC POLICE AND CARINA (the Joint Single Search) I hereby inform you that, pursuant to Article 90(1), Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, for a joint single search on the proposals for the laws of 31, 32, 33 and 34 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior and Dr Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, called for meetings to attend: Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry and Ljiljana Spasojevic, head of the Bureau for International Co-operation and European Integration in the Ministry of Interior. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the 31st, 32rd, 33rd and 34rd agendas, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: MP Miletic Mihajlović to the SPS parliamentary group – JS and MP Dejan Mirović to the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations of the prevention of elementary disasters and of technical harancies and the removal of their consequences, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Co-operation in the fight against crime, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police and Customs Cooperation of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the establishment and operation of a common contact between the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation. Before I ask the proposer's representative if he wants a word based on Article 90(2) and Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Obradovic, want a word? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? MP Dusan Bajatovic? (No) MP Vlatko Ratkovic? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Here you are, MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46337	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS considers this to be an extremely important Agreement on Co-operation with the Ministry of Emergency of the Russian Federation and, of course, before that, I would like to say that we will support this agreement, because we believe that this is in the national interest of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we immediately express our regret that the Agreement has not come to life and so far it is, so to speak, a conditional, dead letter on paper. Why do we think that? We believe that the circumstances that have taken place over the past few years, that we are not going further into the past, have shown that, for example, in 2007, we had a huge fire on the Old Mountain, and then a 40-ton aircraft flew from Russia that was very successful in putting out that fire, and it was already clear that it was more than useful for our citizens and for the emergency situations that were happening, unfortunately, we have been witnessing these days. First of all, I mean a catastrophic earthquake in the Kingdom where some 15,000 objects are damaged and the authorities themselves estimate that the damage is about 100m euros, which is, however, a very big damage for such a poor country. Also, and that should be pointed out, the Ministry of Emergency of the Russian Federation has great experience, great capacities and it is a fact that is generally known. You are certainly aware that M-4 is divided into the organization of the people, the crisis management centre, rescue operations, regional monitoring centres, teaching centres, technique, which may be the most important for us at this time, the psychological service that works in emergency situations and information services. This may be one of the most famous ministries in the Russian Federation government. It was formed in fact in 1994 for crisis situations and then changed its name to this current and head of the ministry is Sergei Šojg, who is known for being the only minister who, during the time of all three Russian presidents, Jelcina, Medvedeva and Putin, was in the post and he has great popularity in his country. Also, the general number of the Ministry of Emergency of the Russian Federation is somewhere around 280 thousand people, which is a huge capacity, and they own more squadrons, planes that are qualified for emergency situations, fires, all the other disadvantages that are happening. One is for the central southern district of Kravyarsk, the other is for Siberia, the third is for Habarovska, it is near China, the Southeastern district and in 2005 they had about 70 aircraft, 45 aircraft, 30 helicopters, and what they don't say, the World Health Organization declared after the Haitian earthquake, when members of the MHS saved about two thousand victims, that they had more experience, that they were best shown in the crisis situation. Of course, after all of this, the question is raised and objectively needs to be answered – how is it possible that we are signing an agreement with such a strong ministry that was not reportedly, I stress, in a position to deal with the fires that took place this summer in the Russian Federation? We in the SRS think it's a kind of propaganda, because it's enough to compare the situation that happened in New Orleans in 2005, and you'll see that then there were catastrophic consequences, where around 700 thousand people escaped, that some 1200 people died, the dams went down, there was a big chaos. We all remember those scenes at a super-home in New Orleans. On the other hand, in the Russian Federation, unfortunately, I don't think it's appropriate to compare it, but 50 people died in two months and a much smaller number of what happened in New Orleans and shows that yet these Russian structures are much more qualified, much more capable than those who worked during those tragic events in New Orleans. So this propaganda that this ministry is not able to deal with the situation in its own country, and we're signing an agreement with them, it's enough to compare what happened in New Orleans a few years ago and what happened in Russia, and you'll see that there are much better results with the ministry mentioned in this agreement. Also, when it comes to the fact that the fire that took place in Russia threatened nuclear plants and that 3,500 people were left without a roof over their heads, it should also be said that at these very moments the most modern technologies were applied, that special fire extinguishing robots had just played a decisive role in defending that nuclear centre and that 3,500 people had actually entered the programme for the restoration of their housing units and that this was seen under a video surveillance that was publicly available and whose centre was the Russian Federation. Also, it should be said that the fact that some foreign diplomats left Moscow this summer, first of all from the United States, Britain and Israel, but you will admit it is incomparable to those 700 thousand people I mentioned, who left New Orleans within a few days and should stress that this natural disaster that happened in America was not unexpected, because before that it hit Miami, where there were also human casualties. Some more facts show that this agreement is to be supported and that it is a serious organization that has many experiences in these situations. You certainly know that there have been major fires in Greece and that the Greek authorities, which is a member of the EU, have requested and called on the MCS, the Russian authorities to help them put out the fires, and then the aircraft technique mentioned in the agreement that we are considering today was hired. As for technical objections to this agreement, it would agree with my distinguished colleague Krasic, I think there was no reason why there was no version of the Russian language, because it is a language that is officially used in the UN. If any document and credit can show up English and Serbian, I don't know why these double standards are applied, and this also happened with a loan for the RS budget that we were considering a month and a half ago. The agreement shows that he is relying on contracts and agreements from 1996 and 2007, which is good and shows continuity of co-operation with the ministry, which has such a long-standing leadership as I already mentioned with the minister, and in this context I reiterate that there have been major problems in Greece, that there have been 64 victims and many more wounded and that in 2009, the fire spread to the suburbs of Athens, and I say that the assistance of Russian air units has led to this terrible fire being extinguished. As regards Article 1 of this Agreement, it is good that it is precise and from a legal point of view shows that there cannot be any dilemma because it is precise and clear definitions. I would point out that on the other hand, when you compare it to some parts of the Aki communitre, which we apply here and about which big debates are being held, let's say SSSPchl. 6, 10, 14, 15, 16 and 88, you will see that there is not a word of precision, because this is about good neighbourly relations that we interpret in one way, and the EU and the European Council, which is primarily the central body that is above the European Commission and all other bodies in the EU, dobro-neighbors bring with some quasi-state Kosovo. It is quite right that there are such clear and accurate definitions as in the opening parts of the agreement. It should be pointed out, and that is our main criticism about this agreement, if we are already talking about the effectiveness mentioned in Article 5 of this Agreement, I see no reason why this agreement was not brought in by an emergency procedure, I see no reason why this debt was waiting, because you know that it was signed and agreed on the visit of the Russian President on 20 October 2009. I will give you just a few examples, only in this year, which shows that this agreement was necessary as soon as possible, as soon as possible in the Assembly, because as you know at the beginning of this year, there have been major floods in RS that have been repeated several times. There were even human casualties and these floods continued during the summer. However, we did not have an operational agreement that would certainly lead to a better state response and we would have one kind of serious assistance in any case that would allow the consequences to be less. In addition, the president of the State Commission for the Elimination of the consequences of the catastrophic earthquake in Kraljev, Mr Dulic, said the state reserves were already exhausted in connection with the floods that took place this summer. We see that about 10m euros of help to the King is being announced. However, that is not enough. My colleagues have repeatedly emphasized that. You've also seen that for some of the things that harm the state of politics are given the same amount of money. When we look at from the perspective of the delay in this agreement, even a representative of the King's government says that he lacked material resources and experience, an experience that could just come from the Ministry of Emergency of the Russian Federation. You know that in the last two years, parts of that ministry have played a significant role during several earthquakes in China and that it is organized, in fact, one kind of air bridge, where a huge amount of material, Polish hospitals, rescue teams transported from the Russian Federation to China, which is proof that if one serious country like China asks for help from that ministry, we could have asked for help. I don't see why it didn't happen during this disaster in the King. Also, I'm going to give you a few more examples that show that this agreement has come to a late-onset procedure. First of all, Haiti, where there was also a catastrophic earthquake. Distance from Russia to Haiti is many times bigger than to Serbia. However, the Russian ministry managed to reorganise the air bridge, and once again, EU countries, such as Sweden and international organisations dealing with these problems, demanded that this particular ministry organise the distribution and transfer of humanitarian aid, equipment, rescue teams from Karakas and Havana to Haiti. I can give you many more examples that show that this ministry was effective and that it was necessary for this agreement to be adopted by an urgent procedure. There was no rational, economic or any reason to delay it. I can only say that it's probably some political reasons, but I wouldn't go into any further speculation. You have the case that there was an earthquake in Kyrgyzian too, that it was also effectively divided there, so I don't see why we didn't ask for help either, because you will admit, and the whole government admits that there are very serious problems with natural disasters and earthquakes that unfortunately hit this year and our country. Whether it's a political calculator, I don't want to go into it, but it's clear and it's a topic for some other committees, for the Security Committee, for some of our delegations to go to Moscow and that after that, co-operation in this regard has been suspended. I don't see what would be so terrible that there is co-operation in the humanitarian field as well. I believe you're so-called. Western partners would not be angry or unkind, as was the case in the previous case. Article 5 mentions the equipment for the independent humanitarian operation. It's a very important help, because it's meant to be a "treasure or a 76" which, with a "boying supertanker," is the best aircraft in the world that's involved in fire-extinguishing. It is also likely to think of the famous "white 200" which is a hydroairn and which, by its characteristics, is much better than the famous "canadera". It is, in any case, a kind of technical assistance and effective assistance that would be very helpful to our country. In Article 7, we see that equipment and material will be excluded from customs. This is not some loss for the budget to a significant extent and is much smaller than the loss estimated at some, according to the current course, 50m euros from the transitional-trade agreement. You could say this is a very correct definition. It should also be pointed out that these technical means to be used through the application of this Agreement are exceptional and that they have about 40 tonnes of load capacity of various materials and materials needed to put an end to the fire. I think we should separate those suspicions from some kind of military base. In fact, there was a spinning by some of the media in Croatia, specifically "The Morning List" and the English "Economist" to be some kind of military base. There's no way it's a military base, it's a humanitarian mission. If you look at the laws that regulate that area in the Russian Federation, you will understand that it is a humanitarian and rescue-oriented organization. I don't see the reason, and again I insist on why this agreement wasn't put into the procedure before. I think there were only harmful consequences for that. If there is an intensification of co-operation with the Russian Federation, there will be no adverse consequences, as has been the case in the Free Trade Agreement, where, although the Deputy Prime Minister, together with Minister Shygu, has signed and expanded products that do not fall under Russian Federation customs. We see that our producers even import them Croatian products and sell them on the Russian market, because apparently the state is not interested in taking advantage of the only development and export chance, and this is a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. It can be said that there were also major problems with Russian investment. It is something that once again shows this agreement, that it is in one context of consideration and in a kind of poorly-hidden obstruction which again affects not only our economy, as I have mentioned in other examples, but here directly affects our citizens, our citizens in the Kingdom who could get help, as the citizens of these countries I have cited, citing examples where the Ministry of Emergency of the Russian Federation participated. How trained and modern organisation shows that the latest satellite system from 2009 was introduced there, which allows not only better communication, but better data transfer, better location of problems, crisis hotspots. It is therefore evident that it is an organisation that, with the technical means already mentioned, means of aircraft, fire extinguishing robots can be freely said to be world leader. Therefore, I would conclude, I think that in this area, and of course in all other areas, we should focus on what is useful for our citizens. Various utopias like the EU are, and I will end up here, quoting Ivan Iljin, in fact, a kind of justification for unemployment and incompetence. Therefore, it needs to be realistic and to deal with something that benefits our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46338	The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46339	My colleagues and colleagues, we are ahead of the beginning of the implementation of the agreement signed by Deputy Prime Minister Dacic and Sergei Šojg, the minister of emergency situations. In essence, this is a technical agreement that regulates the ways and conditions under which the future assistance in fire-extinguishing, emergency response and the prevention of techno-hazards will come from Russia to Serbia. The whole agreement that mentions the two sides, where, based on what the treaty says, we will be able to help them, in essence, makes no sense, because it is only one-sided assistance from the Russian Federation in these situations to Serbia. Let's face it, we have neither the capacity nor the ability to provide them with help. The essence and center of this is the base, the humanitarian base in Nis or Nis, unfortunately, this agreement does not give us details of that base. I have also asked a parliamentary question in my time that I have never received an answer – what is the nature of this base, whose laws apply within that base? Who gives security? What about the weapons of that security detail? Could there be weapons? What happens to compensation and land, etc? I see from this agreement, i.e. the law confirming the agreement that is before us, that these details of this humanitarian centre, of action, of the legal status will be resolved by a special agreement. This special agreement is important because these are open issues. Where it will come from, which border crossing will be entered, which equipment will be carried by rescue teams, or teams that will help us, which corridors will come to, these are technical things that are basically solved here in some way as it is solved in a world of similar situations. What's controversial here, and I'm going to start from that, is costs. Article 10 speaks of expenses. The help-seeking party makes up for the foreign aid, and I said the first one will eventually be Serbia. I hope there won't be any need to realise this agreement, to ask for help. But if it is, it will be Serbia, and the party providing assistance will be Russia. Therefore, a party seeking assistance shall compensate the parties providing assistance costs on the basis of a bilateral act on costs of providing assistance signed by the representatives of the authorised authorities of the parties, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. We, as far as I know, don't have an agreement yet, it'll just follow. This raises the question of the integrity of this agreement and, conditionally speaking, the future aid of the Russian Federation in, God forbid, a situation where Serbia needs help. The fact is, gentlemen, that Russia is far from us, two or three, is a country that has 10 time zones and by the very fact that the costs will certainly be higher or the costs will certainly be greater than that of helping us from the neighborhood. That's what we don't generally argue with. It's obvious there's going to be some kind of cost-a-cop, and I'm afraid it's going to cost. Anyway, if there's a need, I say again, God forbid, nothing is expensive if people's lives and property are saved. But it is undeniable that because of Russia's distance, the help Serbia would receive is more expensive than some help from our environment. As for the damages they can do to people and property, conditionally speaking, teams that come here or if they come, it says here that the party that does the damage is not responsible for this damage in Serbia and that this damage compensates Serbia. It's not exactly a common solution in similar agreements in the world. But well, if so, the state of Serbia will be responsible for the damage done in Serbia, whether on the environment, or on human lives, or on property. We don't think that's right because, as far as I know, in agreement with NATO, whoever does the damage is and pays, through some procedure, but it's pay. Here we come, conditionally speaking, to something called politics. I remind you, gentlemen, that Serbia is a member of the Partnership for Peace, as well as Russia. For us, it is absolutely more logical, more acceptable, let us eventually, in line with what Europe and Brussels are pushing us to do about interregional co-operation that we have made such agreements with countries in our environment, with Macedonia, with Bulgaria, with Albania, with BiH, with Croatia and to make such a humanitarian base, it is not disputed. Somehow joined in the region I think we could achieve the same effects as with some help far away from Russia. I remind you that in the Partnership for Peace, one of the menus on that menu of the Partnership for Peace, which may be 70 and something, is also the assistance of members of each other in the elemental disasters of larger scales, large fires, etc. We don't use it, and we sign and go into the formation of an emergency intervention base in our country with a country that we respect, but which is still far from us. Somehow it seems to me that here the relics of those policies that we deeply believe are abandoned on September 9th of this year, that we have some priorities and that these priorities are equal. You remember that metaphor about the pillars. Somehow, it seems to us that since 9 September and that UN resolution, yet one pillar is thicker and that pillar is the EU. Somehow, this agreement seems to be hanging after that policy change. It's like it's a relic of some kind of policy that was at the moment this agreement was signed, because I really think it's more cellular, cheaper and more efficient, after all, help can get there faster, if it comes from the environment or if we help the environment. That's why we say that co-operation in the Partnership for Peace, where we are a formal member, but we have little use for the benefits of the Partnership for Peace, what should have followed in place of this agreement. We can reach the EU and the EU much faster, if that is the goal of this government through NATO membership. All the countries that have become members of the EU, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, first entered NATO and then into the EU. It just seems to us that it was more logical for us to activate an agreement in which Russia, the Partnership for Peace, is in place, than to go to a separate action that basically draws us away from that top priority. I think in this situation, too, here, colleagues from the SRS, who are sorry this didn't happen earlier, mention how Russia helped Haiti, and around the world, so they'll probably help us and without this agreement, if that happens. But something that is institutional co-operation in the region to eliminate major natural disasters, major forest fires, etc., I guess it should start in the region first. As you know, both Greece and Macedonia, both within NATO and the Partnership for Peace co-operate on fires, only we have some kind of, conditionally speaking, policy of our own. We don't think it's in the interest of Serbia's faster or faster Euro-Atlantic integration. So we're not basically going to vote for this, especially because we don't have an agreement that defines what this base is and what the legal consequences are and how much the Russians are going to pay us to rent land for that base, and I hope we don't give them for free, because all such bases generally have some kind of contract and some sort of compensation. But we're going back to that one. We think that, despite this, because you will probably vote it out, we will wait until we see what this base looks like, we appeal to you that, despite this agreement, we become more active in the Partnership for Peace, because really, as long as you say at this point – it is not NATO's theme for us, it will become because it will come into a situation that the speed towards Brussels and the desire to become a candidate, Montenegro yesterday, and we will not be able to for at least a year, and then when we become, I doubt that we will get the start of negotiations immediately, or the date of the negotiations. All of this can be accelerated by a clear view that this country, like all countries in the environment, wants to be a member of the NATO Pact. This agreement is not a contribution in this direction and this agreement, in essence, may be harsh to say, perhaps not true, is not a contribution to the speed of our Euro-Atlantic integration. I know that many will say -- it is not NATO's condition for EU membership. No, but I remind you of the words of the American vice president last year in Belgrade -- it's true he didn't, but believe me, I quote him, it's faster. Now the question is whether we want this transition that lasts so long in Serbia, a transition from a totalitarian collective system to a system based on democracy, human rights, private property, a competition, etc. to whether we will continue to drag and make it harder, and you are aware that the losers of transition, the people who are barely putting an end to the end, are the result of not transition, but the long duration of transition. The most just is a quick transition, because sooner in the EU, the path and speed depend on our relationship with NATO. This does not show that we are, on condition, ready to do our jobs waiting for us on that European path. One is NATO membership, the other we received in the report, and many others we received in the report that arrived yesterday. So we think that no matter how many people are in this country that are glorifying Russia, we are not glorifying Russia or America, but we are glorifying Serbia. What's Serbia's interest, it's basically best at LDP alone, but also for everyone, I guess. We've been through one phase in recent history. Now there are forces in the government that decided at the time. Remember our fantasies of a union with Russia, Belarus, and even with Greece, and the world has changed so much in the meantime. It's a good thing those forces are changing, too. That's what I'm giving them credit for. The world has changed so much that Russia is now co-operating with NATO in Afghanistan. Not only does NATO use Russian territory to supply its troops in Afghanistan, but if you had the opportunity to see, Mr Krasic, Russian troops or officials are even participating in missions in Afghanistan. We recently read that operatives, cops or whatever, some services that fight drug trafficking and narcotics together with the Americans were destroying some fields in Afghanistan. So Russia is cooperating, Russia is a member of the Partnership for Peace. There is a permanent committee of co-operation between Russia and NATO. Russia is helping NATO in Afghanistan. Even after the Brezhnev era, he sends people there, and we are binding, conditionally speaking, to help Serbia for some kind of, God forbid, an emergency situation with Russia, and we have a signed Partnership for Peace Agreement. in which it says that the member states of the Partnership are able and has a mechanism when they seek the assistance of other NATO members, i.e. a member of the Partnership for Peace in these situations. Let's be rational, let's be thrifty. We think regional co-operation and co-operation with neighbors on, say, fire extinguishing is much more effective. We can help them, too. You know, Russia is a big country and maybe it has the biggest planes, maybe the Russian cows give the most milk. We went through that time. We had fires this summer in Moscow, I hope there will never be such a thing in Serbia. We saw that in that case Russia needed help. What Russia didn't ask for, it's a matter of every sovereign country, but remember how much they struggled over it. Just how long does it take a plane to fly from Moscow to Nis, how much fuel will it spend? It's just that it's getting more expensive, and we think that the principle of an effective cheap state has to take care of that, too. Someone can say this is politics. Okay, I'm not running away from politics. If our goal is to join the EU quickly, then our goal must be NATO membership. This is where everything that this agreement regulates is already regulated. So one irrational or one relic of political behavior from the past we see in this agreement and somehow it doesn't seem to be rational and smart. All right, we signed it, you'll vote it out, but I'm warning you, when that agreement comes on that base, to be extremely serious and careful. After all, take a comparative analysis and see how well similar bases are regulated and how much, for example, Americans pay for the countries in which these bases are located. Don't act like we did two years ago when we signed that energy agreement with Russia, and now we see that there's nothing going on from that South Stream. There is no feasibility study yet, the only difference between this and that agreement is that in the end, it says here that Šojga and Dacic signed two identical copies, one in Serbian, one in Russian, and both texts have equal legal power, which was not the case with the energy agreement. I remind you, only the Russian version was valid. Be careful with that base. This is what you will vote on, but I urge the ruling majority to turn to the Partnership for Peace, to show that it is capable of deepening regional co-operation, as we have been praised for this, since the change of policy on September 9th we received praise from the EU. This would be an upgrade to regional co-operation and would be a road that would speed up Serbia's Euro-Atlantic integration. After all, if we split up with Montenegro four years ago, and they've been running out on us for at least a year now, and they're ahead of us, it's our turn to try and catch up with them. This isn't the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46340	The word is from MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46341	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have four laws in front of us to confirm an agreement in the field of the fight against crime when it comes to an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Then, we have a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of humanitarian response and emergency situations, the prevention of elemental disasters and techno-hazards and the elimination of their consequences. Then, we have a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation and also one agreement with Bulgaria on the establishment and functioning of a joint contact between the police and customs co-operation centre. So, it is about laws that confirm specific agreements primarily in the area of security, in a broader sense, which is very important for the security aspect of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. I would say that these are not the first agreements to be concluded in this area, that we have had and we already have almost very often the adoption of these agreements, here in the National Assembly, with many other countries, and certainly this is one progress in creating a better security environment in a wider area, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but in a wider environment. So this is, of course, about agreements, more or less, that are classic by their content. With the government of the Republic of Azerbaijan was signed on 13 May 2010, when our delegation led by President Boris Tadic, and the agreement was signed by Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, as well as all other agreements. So it's about a known entity, name and last name, a responsible person who signed it, and we don't have any dilemmas, if in some discussions on some other agreements there was a problem or some dilemma about who signed it, why etc. This is about providing conditions for curbing and creating conditions in the fight against terrorism, then protecting and maintaining public order, creating conditions for better security of persons and entities, dealings with analysts, strategic planning and development, and certainly on the agenda of organised crime or illegal migration and human trafficking, which is a great monster of this time, because human trafficking, whether we want to admit it or not, exists in the environment. It's one of the problems that needs to be contained, cut in the root, and that's possible more effectively if these agreements are made. When it comes to the Law on Confirmation of an Agreement with the Russian Federation on the Prevention of Essential Accidents, Tehnogene Hawari and Elimination, it is an agreement signed on 20 October 2009, when the president of the Russian Federation of Medvedev came to visit Serbia and when the resolution ministers signed such an agreement on mutual assistance and co-operation in this area. Of course, global climate change that can cause droughts, floods, fires, etc., then other natural disasters and human factors caused by accidents that do not know the borders exceed the possibilities of a single country's rescue teams. It is certainly necessary to count on other people's help at some point, in this case on the help of the Russian Federation, which is certainly best equipped and which can, to a considerable extent, at some point,, if necessary, not God, come to help and effectively help the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. It should be said that co-operation on this plan with the Russian Federation exists from earlier years. In the 1990s there were such agreements, it continued in 2007. As far as the SPS-JS is concerned, I think we can conclude that it's a good thing this agreement was signed. When it comes to these issues and the problems that we are talking about, police co-operation on the crime plan, different categories, or when it comes to removing elementary disasters, technono-hazards, etc., I don't think our country has any prejudice as to whether it's more likely to conform to partners from the West or from the East, nor does it matter when it comes to crime. As far as we know, I think the entire public knows, our MUP, headed by Minister Ivica Dacic, has gone in the direction of making such agreements with many countries that are both from the NATO Alliance and other states that do not belong to that alliance, whether they are in the West or in the East. We also have before us the Law on affirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation, as well as the establishment and functioning of a joint contact centre for police and customs co-operation. In a broader sense, all these agreements allow one synchronised police co-operation and one action at a given time to successfully oppose all types of crime, whether it be terrorism, whether it be organised crime, whether it be drug trafficking, human trafficking, trafficking in stolen vehicles, etc. I would say that the time in which we live today is such that it is the time of a new technological environment, of a new understanding, of a time in which new and wider markets are being conquered, in which we have an offensive offer and demand in the broadest sense of words and that communication between people and goods is perfectly normal and everyday across borders and in a wider space. On condition, a country with its citizens and its property cannot survive without such communication, and in such communication crime arises, as may be the elemental disasters or natural disasters that do not know the limits. It is perfectly understandable and natural that a serious state approaches the conclusion of such agreements and such agreements, which at some point will make a joint action to prevent many hardships and many other dangers that threaten the state, property or people. I also want to say, on behalf of the SPS-JS, that we have the living diplomatic activity of our top state or our country, its organs. It is certainly worth mentioning the president of the Republic, who is quite agile and is working on the plan, as well as Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. I don't particularly want to talk about it, as much as anyone understands what I want to say, but that in the same level of such activity for Serbia's well-being and its citizens is the activity on the international agenda of Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, who has made a significant contribution to what is connecting and integrating Serbia into broader frameworks, not only within the framework of what needs to be the EU's participation tomorrow, but also in the wider area, precisely in order to ensure good co-operation of certain services, certain structures, as much as possible the security aspect of Serbia and its citizens. For these reasons, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for these four laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46342	A 12-minute mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46343	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is once again an interesting topic, the signing of the agreement, which I believe is not disputed to help Serbia, to make agreements, and in particular an agreement with the Russian Federation, which will mean a great deal to Serbia, to solve some of the problems modeled by the Russians, and to technical and technological equipment, so that we can react more effectively in the event of the elemental disasters of any kind. The Russians have elaborated this system with extraordinary and have a ministry for which it has long worked, with exceptional equipment and techniques and large funds to be allocated for these purposes. That's why they have results in this business, and it's good to come, to make this agreement and help us do something about it. But today I would like to talk about this problem which has been a major problem for years for Serbia. We pay a great tribute every year to our unsuspecting, disorganized and simply unprepared to confront any kind of elemental disaster. I was very surprised when some laws were passed in this House, since in two governments I was the minister in charge of elementary disasters and I was doing it extraordinaryly and the results were excellent. Let's remember Međa, Jase Tomic, thousands of houses have been torn down in the rinks. Since the bombing in Nis, everything that's been destroyed, built, built, done, removed the tape bombs, done the Ponika airport, removed the explosives that were in the runways, removed, concreted, returned everything to the proper state, rescheduled the rivers that were harassed through Serbia, but I'm very sorry, when I saw that we had very recklessly transferred this entire obligation to the Ministry of Police and then we thought we were all done with the job. The police ministry can help people, with its experience, equipment, technique, to get people out, evacuate, tend, office, but once the elemental disaster has passed, it needs to be resolved and restored to the proper state. When the damage is great, other ministries need it. I remember perfectly, as the minister in charge of elementary disasters in Serbia, I had six ministers who were with me and I led the team. He was Minister of Economy, he was Minister of Police, Minister of the Army, Minister of Finance and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. We did it together and he was the minister's headquarters in a permanent session. So, all of the machinery, when an emergency is introduced in one space, such as the King's case, we've decided that all mechanisms of the same time from all public enterprises are being rerouted there, to take action immediately. After three days, we started building projects, and after four days, we started building houses. On the 15th day, we built over 10% of the buildings in the 15th day. Now I see – an elemental accident and nothing happens. We're playing some creep, covering houses that are marked for demolition. Nothing collapses, projects don't work. We need to design projects to be staticly stable in case of a possible earthquake again, because it's a blasting area. We didn't include design houses to do it immediately, to do projects, so far, 50% of those objects that are for demolition should be destroyed, to clean up locations, and to start at these sites by new projects. I remember an excellent CIP with 600 employees, working day and night on project documentation. They worked 20 to 50 projects every morning. The construction department, the ministry, they were all in the field. I've been to the King. Nothing's happening. Some voluntary action is being taken, volunteers are gathering. It's propagating, the ministers are coming. There are ministers who have nothing to do with it, the minister of trade, for local administration, walking down the street, saying something. Poor people, people. They're chasing and they're all getting cracks and covering to save the property that's in the facilities that are meant to be destroyed, instead of taking one hall. We've got as many halls as you want, Jasenov and the rest of the trade houses, so that the furniture can be located there, that the boxing can be bulked up, that the facilities can be left there, that the facilities collapse and go into construction. What's waiting for you now? Why do they fly and cover objects marked with red paint that collapse in 10, 15, maybe a month or two? Why do you throw a tick, a fly, a roof and everything? Why are you wasting your workforce? The minister is coming and bringing 50 men. Guys, it's a toy, that's funny. We haven't forgotten the action yet, so we want to play with it. Now it's time for technology, technology. There's supposed to be a mechanism to do it, to clean it up, because every day these objects are shooting and falling more and more every day from new earthquakes. If the static object is developed, if there are cracks in the foundations and cracks in the pregnant walls, there is no recovery, it must be collapsing. Completely distracted objects. I've seen two churches in which, recently, in St. Dimitri, a cake is cut, full of churches, and a dome bursts and everything cracks. Can the Minister of Culture or someone in charge of historical monuments go there and say, " Gentlemen, this is not for use, this has to be remedied, it has to be done, it has to be entered into the recovery program?" But that's not done. It's similar with the rinks. On the Ibarian magistrates, they land all over the hill, there's two badgers, bulldozers, there's this country, they're driving, they're transporting. Who's the one who needs to do the ice-skating rescue project right now? It's not just to put away the land that keeps moving, the hill is going. The rescue project, to see what depth the rink is, how it slides, whether it can be rescheduled, etc. Do you believe, Mr. Minister, I'm talking about a very important topic, which is to prevent this from happening. We don't do anything like state to prevent it. The whole of Belgrade and the whole of Serbia know that the biggest slide is Deep on the Mind. No one's going to do a rescue at the Dubok ice rink now, they say. It's expensive. Now it was supposed to pass the highway and we projected it here to pass. That's where the spatial plan was to go through and resuscitate Deep and keep the Umka that's sliding towards Savi and each day we do the dobetoning or doafaling of the malted layer that slips away. Do you believe that the thickness of the asphalt, when looked from the shores of Sava, is six meters? What's going on now? Dulic came up with, his very smart advisor suggested that we go through New Belgrade, go over the White Waters and let Deepo go for some other generations, that's expensive. We can't run away from the problem. One day, this Deep One will make a dharma. What's the basic problem, Deep? Thousands of septic caves in the area. In one yard there are three to five septic caves that have been dug right to the clay area and stimulate the rink. Can Belgrade solve the sewerage of Umka, the sewerage of suburban settlements and make this so much easier and go into recovery? We can't run away from a problem that's obvious. So we're not acting in any way preventively. I can't imagine, Mr. Minister, that someone should build a new school and technically receive it and get a used permit and burst into an earthquake of 5.4 degrees Markali's scale. Whoever stole the iron, who didn't do a good stat, should answer. Does anyone answer for a hospital in the King? It's a new hospital, one of the most equipped in central Serbia's territory. How is it possible for the hospital to crack? I was making the hospital private and I had a lot of problems about it. My hospital is 15 kilometers from the epicenter, which was built. It doesn't have any cracks. The hospital is an object that can't break to 12 degrees Merakley's scale. The last object to collapse in the city is the hospital. Therefore, vertical walls, bearing walls are steel canvass, canvas reinforced reinforced reinforced concrete, etc., special static conditions are worked for hospitals, operating halls. It must never fall apart from the earthquake. No earthquake recorded in Europe is allowed to crack the operating room, because where the citizens will arrive - the maternity home is broken. It's a health disorder. If I were a minister, I'd resign. So when it was supposed to be rescheduled, one hospital cost 56 million recently. I've got that file. She was overseeing the construction department. Dinkic, of course, found someone, the owner of the company, who gave in to some 23 million-dollar piece-of-shit contractor, and 56 million was the whole deal. What does that mean, half the price? This means that half of the materials that are intended there will be installed under the World Bank project, whose resources have been identified. I can't imagine that the new hospital, which was built recently, "Dragisa Misovic", is on fire. Do you know, Mr. Minister, what are the preventive measures for the hospital's fire? That's what I know best because I did those papers. In each room there are devices, outside protection, external, internal fire protection and all the measures that are automatically lit and extinguished by fires when fires occur. How is it possible to burn down a hospital if it is new and technically equipped by law and regulations? That's impossible. How is it possible to burn down a hospital in Mitrovica? So it's technically impossible and so does anyone fit after things like this that happen? I remember perfectly well that as minister, I did everything possible to identify the resources to resuscitate rivers in Vojvodina and to clear the channels that are regulators when there are great waters. What happened? An extremely large Vojvodina demanded that funds be transferred to them in full amount and that they perform the works because it is on their territory. We transferred to the capital fund, the funds to the last dinar were spent in Belgrade, nothing was done on the ground. Now as soon as the water's bigger again, it's all happening the same. The canals are not cleaned, no shores have been rescheduled, no slides, nothing about the rivers that are located, everything that was planned for the project, and the funds have been spent. Is someone responsible for something like that? How is it possible for the Beška bridge to be set up and the first pillar to be located from Belgrade when it comes to the Danube is located on a glider that is not being rescheduled and now the sliding pole and now the bridge resuscitation costs the Malteses half as much as half the construction of a new bridge? How is it possible that after all the audits, the controls, the project documentation, something like that can be done? I'm talking about prevention that is extremely important. How is it possible for the city to kill 30% of Serbian villages every year and make them completely sick? Today there is technology and a way to defend itself against the city. It's not shooting anymore. We're on the corridor line, and we can't do that. So there's another way to protect and we have planes for it, we have airports, but we don't use them. So there's no prevention anywhere, and that's why this is happening. I'm glad this Russian base is going to be built in Nis. I'd be happy to do it by technical regulations, but that we act preventively and organisationally so that we can use it. I'm very sorry that we have poor surveillance on our facilities in the state. Do you believe that one of our great criminals, who we haven't been able to free for years, has been purchased by the Institute by one who designs roads and manages road construction. What is this quality of surveillance? He's a performer, he's got a couple of contractors. Is it a conflict of interest for a man to build, oversee and design privately, and the state pays for it? When he comes to the government, everyone's shaking and he's coming. Is that okay? I fought in those governments not to privatize the institute, they must remain state. Control where the state gives money has to be state-controlled, extremely high-quality. We have top schools and institutes. We can't privatise the surveillance houses and the project houses because they'll pay the big price for the state. Oversight of schools, control of bridges, control of roads, supervision of hospitals, etc. It's costing us a lot now. I can't imagine that we can't solve the most basic issues that are normal in the world to solve and solve and that we don't have these problems because one maternity home is the last thing that can collapse. The maternity panic, they say - the hospital collapses, the hospital shoots. Talking to a Japanese will cross him. If you talked to anyone in the EU, you'd cross the same line. Here's the damage to the car factory. Now we're all talking about harmful houses, private facilities. What about the car factory? What about Magnochrom? What about the companies, the big halls that have completely broken, the roofs are cracked, and they need huge funds to resuscitate these facilities? Some ministers are not allowed here to come to parliament to talk to MPs. I can't understand that we chose a minister who runs half the government, who holds 50% of the budget at his disposal, and never came here to sit where you're sitting now, Mr. Obradovic. I very much appreciate you and I respect that you have honored the MPs to come, although it is not your topic and that you listen to these discussions, but I cannot understand the Secretary-General responsible for certain facilities, for certain tasks that are being done in the country, for certain investments that he is holding and sending to us Mrs Matic. He's staying there, he's looking at us white, we're looking at her. We tell our story, she gets a little nod, there goes the woman, and that's how it all ends. Does the minister have the strength to enter his parliament? If he doesn't, it's no place for him to be a minister, he can't even be in the government. Thus, some things must be done in a different way. I therefore draw attention to this prevention that is extremely important. Now I'm looking at the King. Do you believe that when we come from the opposition, it's as if an occupier has come. No media, no nothing, no one can talk to us, and maybe we can help. We offered accommodation for 60 families right away. We offered material, we offered some houses to show how to build it, but there's no one to talk to. The leadership is running away from us. When someone comes from the government, walks around, two trucks of acid water are dressed up, it's cheapest, split up and go. I talk to citizens every day. We're neighbors. There's a lot of damage in the Cachak municipality that nobody mentions, but those neighbors that are coming, they're complaining. My facilities are 15 km from the center of the Kings. They come every day and pray, and I say, "We have no one to talk to." This power has been kidnapped. There is the chief chief, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, Maja Gojkovic. I'd like to see Mrs. Gojkovic when she knew she was going for a walk, that she'd wake up, come pick up the councilmen, come over there now and solve her problems, but she'd go to parties somewhere, see the other night, go to discotheques, mess around in Serbia, why don't she come over there a little bit? Is Maja Gojkovic responsible?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46344	People's MP, except I remind you of the obligation to talk about the agenda, the time that is at your disposal has been used. Please, next time, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure and our joint obligations to respect members of the Parliament's obligations to speak of the agenda. Are any of the other authorised MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search for a written word, and with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, the New Serbia parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia group. The first registered speaker in the order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the law set out in points 31, 32, 33 and 34 of the agenda is MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46345	It's a shame there's been a united debate over a number of these laws, but I'm going to state the general position of the SRS on all these proposals. Mrs. Komic, Bulgaria recognised Kosovo's independence on 19 March 2008. A month of self-proclaimed, zero-provoked, and by the EU driven, independence, Bulgarians endured a month, heroically, and then recognised an independent Kosovo. Just so you know. Why am I saying this? Because, I must quote, when you were making a government, you said, I quote you again, you take care when you're making replicas not to get in the way, you said "our pledge is for maximum sovereignty". Interesting thing. It's the first time I've heard of "maximum possible". So there's impossible. And you say, as far as possible. That's the so-called. Real policy, no alternative, there's nothing else. When I hear from someone who says he loves democracy, that there's no alternative, then I know he's lying to me, because democracy by definition means there's always an alternative. But the paper suffers a lot, and when the election is, anything can. What else does it say in your paper? "By approaching the EU," means there is no entry, only approximation, "and by providing investment from that environment it is possible, among other things, to provide a stronger foreign policy position for the country." Have you secured the country's stronger foreign policy position? You're not. On the contrary, you have diminished, threatened pride, endangered the essential interests of both the people and the state. Then what do you say next: "And a more effective policy for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija". So your argument was the EU that will fight for Kosovo and Metohija to be in Serbia. What did you get from the EU? You received 22 of the 27 countries' recognition of Kosovo's independence, you received that you had to accept the EU's ultimatum at 15 minutes before the General Assembly's session and file a resolution to praise you for being good students these days. I bring all this up first of all to remind you, although you know it very well, those citizens who still somehow believe. I don't trust DOS, and I urge all citizens not to trust DOS at all. Whoever trusted DOS got himself killed. He didn't get his nose, he lost his job, he lost his pride, his territory, everything. Now I'd move on to agreements. I just heard that Russia is far away and that there is no good agreement with the Russians because there is this troublesome communication. I'd like to present to you the indisputable facts immediately. Russia is so close to the United States that it's a shame and a comparison. It's impossible for the United States to be much closer to us than Russia. Over the Danube, we're almost in border relations with Russia. Like, over the Danube Delta. It is further said that this agreement is not good because we suffer damage. What harm do we suffer? Do you remember Vuk Draskovic when he signed agreements with the NATO Pact – that they could ride through the Republic of Serbia, that they could trample, that they could do harm and that they could not respond? It was in this building and in that building downstairs. It didn't bother you at the time, it was "in", it's pro-European when NATO tramples on you. Then you said -- we need that agreement, because if the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija attack the NATO Pact, the strategic direction to extract the NATO Pact is through Serbia. Well, the NATO Pact and America made independent Kosovo and Metohija. There are more monuments to Bill Clinton in Kosovo and Metohija than in America. Afghanistan is a drug-produced center. The world's largest warehouse for the drugs is Kosovo and Metohija. That's what the sparrows in Serbia know, and even these breeds in the crossover over Serbia know. You're the only one who doesn't want to admit it. The following is said: whether we will be paid compensation. Tell me, how much did you make from the Bondsteel fee? How much did you make for Bondsteel? He is missing Filip Stojanovic, he was also detained in Bondsteel because of newspapers in a Serbian-language car, a Cyrillic letter. Your colleague, MP, Philip Stojanović. (President: National MP, I remind you of the obligation to talk about the agenda. So, both newspapers and Bondsteel, if you can get in touch with the agenda. Thank you. ) Mrs. Comić, I get the impression that you don't handle the agenda very well. Have you seen what the first of these four laws is? In the area of humanitarian response, in emergency situations, the prevention of elemental disasters and techno-hazards and the removal of their consequences. A lot of people talked about it before me. Just now, Zoran Ostojić was talking about a military base. Velimir Ilic talked about his hospital in construction, the thickness of the asphalt, about the spread of the feces. (President: People's MP, I'm following the meeting. I also remind MP Velimir Ilic to return to the agenda, including you, with all the creativity that implies the argument, but I ask you to talk about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations etc. Don't doubt I'm following. Go on. ) Mrs. Komic, I assure you there is no need to worry. I am for this agreement. How am I not up to this agreement when he was an integral part of something we did in 2000? You remember, Mr. Obradovic, when Gordana Comic, Nenad Canak and the others attacked us here in front of the Assembly for entering friendly relations with Belarus, Ukraine and Russia. This is an integral part, Mrs. Comic. You've had a change of attitude and opinion, I don't have it. (President: People's Parliament, I now warn you, when and if the agenda of the agreement you mention, then it can be brought into contact with this. Now I warn you – on the topics of the agenda. Do not mislead the public in Serbia by bringing facts out of the lives of others who, at least when it comes to one of those two persons, are completely incorrect. Here you go. If that's the case, Mrs. Comic, then I appreciate you. I'm glad there are so many Russians, that's already a good perspective for Serbia. I support you in that regard. Mr. Obradovic, when you see Dacic, when he returns from abroad, remind him that this is an integral part of that package, you remember, in 2000, when we sought towards this strategic unity, not just a partnership. Look what happened in the meantime. Meanwhile, Russia has become a member of the NATO Pact Partnership for Peace, but it is not within the NATO Pact, it is outside NATO's pact and, of course, we followed Russia and said -- let's be members of that alliance too. But the Partnership for Peace is a singing society of much lower quality than Strasbourg and the Council of Europe. It's very familiar to you, since we were in the delegations together, so you know how it works there. But you can imagine what disappointment is happening at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Pact when Americans, as young people would say, say coldly on issues – we will negotiate with our strategic partner Russia. Immediately, a delegation of Poland, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia jumps, rips their hair and says "aman," so we ran away from the Russians, and you tell us the Russians are the best. So I want to point out on behalf of the SRS because you've come from the agenda where you give us credit, that who knows which way we're right, and you're, as your friends would say, wrong. You've always been wrong. So, if you gave Bondsteel, or they took it, they built the largest military base, tell me how much they're paying you? When you say how much they pay you, you ask the Russian side to pay for something. If you don't make money on the Americans and on the NATO Pact, don't make money on those who sincerely want to help RS. A large number of Russian delegations attended a scientific meeting of the SRS on October 19th, and they expressed unreserved support for the SRS and Vojislav Seselj and Serbian national interests. They even said who are the cancers of the Serb people, but I won't repeat it, you'll read it in a new number of "Great Serbia", where the stenograms were published. I don't read it so you won't punish me, so that after Nenad Konstantinovic is not a humanitarian with my money. Especially that someone from the Resistance boasts about other people's money, that the Resistance is a humanitarian organization. Let's move on. So in 2000, when you attacked, you humiliated everything that starts with R, you were wrong with Russia, and now you admit it. It's better than anyone ever. I'm going one step further. To me, this agreement is not perfect, we from the SRS would need a military-defense agreement with the Russian Federation. Of course, China, too, comes from other friendly countries from the ECD. We are very happy to be in this alliance and to do something that is a strategic unity that could be called Euro-Asian integration, a Euro-Asian land mass in these strategic plans. The presence of the Russians guarantees our life. These others have no view of our lives. They think we're a statistical mistake, that this needs to be cleaned up. The Russian brothers treat the Serbian issue as national issue number one. You can't run into a man in Russia who would say an ugly word about Serbs. If that were to happen to him, he'd be a national not proud man and he'd enjoy a conviction from everyone, from cleaning lady to academics. For the Russians, we are a kind of paradigm of pride. Every time we were with the Russians, we were strong and respected. Now we need them for that, and a little to even ourselves up, to reduce the influence of these Euro-Atlanticists, who are opponents of Europe, you know, always through history. To teach you something, England hates the EU, and England will destroy democracy. It's a 200-year-old saying, but you think about it. What do we expect from these agreements with the Russians? You know, I have to say a little commendation to those who made that Declaration of Reconciliation, because they've figured things out before. Here's what those who got back together made a new eighth session of reconciliation. The two say we are in favour of strengthening the UN institutions. That's good, not the EU institution, but the UN. I support and say this – and for active co-operation with Russia, China, India, other countries of Asia, Africa, Latin America, and especially with the member states of the Unclassified Movement. It's commendable, if that's all right. If that is the case, since we are witnesses, that many things should be written, then you know how this man said the other day, I am not informed. This is what I'm saying so no one can get away with it if he hasn't been notified. I'll keep you posted. How? I read what you wrote, you know. Everyone here will give you support. They're not gonna give you LDP support for this, and they're probably the others who want to cheat. It's a good thing you've defined and I commend you. Do you know what kind of gene that is compared to 2000? You've turned your entire system around for 180 degrees. That's good, and I commend you. So there's talk of European values, call the banker from Bangladesh. It's a bank for the poor, isn't it? As far as these agreements are concerned with Bulgaria, I just need to draw one attention. There is a principled attitude about their recognition of an independent kiM. I have to draw attention to you that in Bulgaria there was a CIA centre for the Balkans, when we expelled them from Serbia and moved from Sofia to Budapest. In Budapest, they were the ones in school. That's what I'm writing a book about, but I can't finish it. I'm just breaking the book, and there's some data coming from America over the Internet about the financing of the Resistance, Ratkovic, and then Homen, then Neca, let me not tell you, Srdjan, everything is written. But it will see the light of day. It's not my author's work again, it's the ones from America who have to report to the taxpayers. You know, in America everything has to be transparent. They say – we spent this dollar on the destruction of Slobodan Milosevic. I'm using their sources to inform you, so you won't be uninformed. Ever since it was this stuttering, it's kind of like it's an epidemic. I just can't figure out what's going on. Mr. Obradovic, I must warn you, I do not warn you, there were some activities in Sofia during 2000 and 2001 that eventually appeared to be devastating for the RS and for the economic interests of the RS. I'll tell you a secret. The Mentionary Popovac was sold as agreed by Sofia. You know who was making deals there. And I'm gonna put that out there, so you know. They put all their capacities in this drive, you know that. Police co-operation and customs co-operation with Bulgaria always exists. During one period, the co-operation was highlighted in order to curb the trade in cigarettes, narcotics, etc. However, it has its own prehistory. Mr. Obradovic, when we were with the NATO Pact and the country was blocked, there were OSCE observers at all borders. Then, according to one UN decision, for humanitarian matters in Serbia, the SRJ, they released some small goods on the spoon. But only some could break the sanctions – Beko, Peconi, Miskovic, the Danube industry, you know those things they did with those beliefs from Skopje about the origin of the product, they carried money in their suitcases, etc. They became big rich people and tycoons now bought the economy, formed their own banks, and now everyone who wants to deal with politics is playing like spiders on their instruments. Who are they funding? What he says is "great brother." "Big Brother" says – Mouse, open up, now you have to force these. That's what's going on. You see, the Bulgarians worked pretty hard on it and the planes, and the overflights, and those sanctions, and they made money on us. Now it's supposed to be an interesting drug trade, not to stop that store, but to keep the big brother under control, as an accountant, the entrance – the exit – the balance, where are the money? Very simple and simple. Very simple and simple. This is one of the five or six agreements that have been concluded and joined by the Republic of Serbia, sometimes SRJ, customs equipment, customs co-operation, etc. The results of all these agreements were that Turkey at the border was a hundred times more drug confiscation than Bulgaria and Serbia combined. Very simple and simple. You take the map of the world, look where Afghanistan is, look where Kosovo and Metohija is, look where Naples is, the center of that NATO pact that's under here, Naples is holding the mob, you know, they're swimming in the garbage there, the story's closed. Now someone needs to come out and keep us informed of the good wishes, the expectation of epochal results, the praise that we are fighting organized crime, probably someone fighting this organized crime, maybe on the street, maybe at the market, but what's in the government's institutions at all. The state said Darka Saric's group washed through the institutions of the Republic of Serbia a billion and 350m euros. Who said that information? Home? Does he know that? He knows. Because he also knows who he's going to be charged with and what he's going to say in the investigation, and when there's going to be a trial, and how much he's going to be convicted, and who's holding a bar in Belgrade, he even knows it. A man knows everything. I support you in that, clear these things up, if you can, and if you can. If you dare, clear up. You know, we have now come into this development of our economy in a situation, they used to be in debt from the IMF and the World Bank, and then the steps below were also the rich institution of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc., and now we've burned another step down and we've reached the Commercial Bank. You know what the next stage is? The Zemun market. There's two gigs to turn, though, and the banks and they came from the market, you know. Take care of what I've told you, I've got some work to do now, and I've got to get the people in one location. Take care, make a difference between friends and enemies, the enemy is always proven, he's proud of it, and when you see this Mr. Stefan Phil, tell him that I'm fighting to get out of a Serbian menu with a mushroom medallion because something like that when it's written on the menu of the Republic of Serbia, someone's gonna think that someone hates Stefan Phil, it's up to life and death in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46346	National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I felt obliged to say a few words about the agreement with which Mr. Krasic began his discussion and ended, and these are agreements concerning the Republic of Bulgaria. One of these agreements, in light of the text of the law, says these agreements will help Serbia's European integration. We believe that the procedures relating to European integration are very destructive to Serbia, its constitutional order, and we believe that its destructive intention towards the Republic of Serbia will not end with KIM, that it slowly extends its destruction to other border areas. I will use the material evidence in the picture and in the text, as Mrs. Komic had just asked the SRS MPs to try to prove to you that this is true, that the problems exist, that the government is pushing problems under the carpet and head into the sand and in addition to a bunch of SRS appeals to deal seriously with certain problems in the territory of the Pcinj County, in particular the Bosilegrad municipality, and in part and the Surdulic municipalities, these two municipalities are based on each other and the problems that arise in Bosilegrad reflect slowly in Surdulica. You understand what I'm saying, you were almost in Surdulica, I think what I'm about to tell you should really take this seriously. The laws and agreements, documents and norms of the rule of law of this country have so far really existed with a bunch of mechanisms that crime and cross-border relations problems, flows and movements could be contained and solved. It's never a waste to improve something like that. But this country generally has a problem with the fact that individual representatives of the government at different levels of this country represent a number of things, for some of the things they represent in their essence and content of crime, petty smuggling, and on the other hand they represent very, very serious attacks on the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. We were trying to appeal to you, as Government, to react. No matter how many times I asked the government if there were elements of action or impact on the constitutional order on the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality, the ministries informed me that there were no violations of public order and peace. The intensity of the problems we have in Bosilegrad today may not be huge, it's made up by a dozen people, but they are people who institutionally provide logistics with problems that can cause this country serious headaches. I appeal to you, as Minister of Government, to accept the fact that Belgrade is not far from Bosilegrad, as it was not far from Pristina, that Novi Sad is not far from Bosilegrad and that all of you sitting in the government accept the arguments of the SRS and deal with the anti-constitutional behaviour of individuals in the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality, on the one hand, or in some other municipalities bordering the Republic of Bulgaria, therefore take seriously, safeguard the constitutional order, the national interest of this state, because, among other things, you and the law and the Constitution are bound by you. First of all, I want to tell you that again in our country was a problem, which I can say here, when as representatives of the local self-government of the previous, when radicals were in power, we tried to improve the border crossings technically, materially, humanly and in any other sense. We had no hearing, he beat the lobby that defended the intensity and extent of co-operation, or crossing to Dimitrovgrad. On the one hand, the south of Serbia, primarily the municipality of Surdulic, those living in the area, working at the border crossing, would be relieved of the border crossing in Dimitrovgrad. After all, there was room and opportunity for the transition to Bosilegrad to advance and raise to one higher level, which would indeed be in the context of a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia. There was no hearing. As long as it goes further, I have no idea, but we bring an agreement, and at these two crossings, or at one crossing in the municipality of Surdulica a day if you cross five cars people at the border are happy. The state had mechanisms and I will now read to you, if you think it is necessary, and if not, I will give you the names of at least three people who are involved in smuggling, who are covered and who are being targeted by someone who represents the country at that local level in Bosilegrad. They have status privileged there. How does the state deal with it? The state has to deal with itself first. This country and this government have problems with their mutually bad relations not having time to deal with serious and essential problems. Not to owe the story, about crossing the border, the crime that's going on here, which is, truth, petty, it's not a big crime, the state can do it overnight if it shows its will. What I want to show you in the picture and text is starting to be a serious problem. In fact, Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know it's the 7th day of the western Bulgarian provinces. The Western Bulgarian province of the SRS has spoken many times in this assembly. I wish there were more MPs coming from that area or who are members of the Bulgarian national minority, because they wouldn't have one single argument against what I'm going to say. On November 7th, a Bulgarian newspaper, Darik News, published a text saying that Bulgarians from the Bosilegrad municipality wrote to the European Council on the rights of the national minority in Serbia. It is further said among other things in the text, I will be a little ignorant, but I will translate, it is said that the document presented, i.e. in the presented material of the Democratic Union of Bulgarians, is being revealed by a large, or extension, now watch this, large Serbian policies at the national and cultural assimilation of the Bulgarian minority. Published officially on the site. There is also a concrete way of disrupting this and how their civil rights and freedoms have been questioned. This applies to your government. This is the address of the German 11. Whose rights and civil liberties are you endangering and destroying? You who release Ilija Jurisic are destroying someone's rights and freedoms. Imagine the absurd. Imagine the noise the government is silent about, the state is not responding to. Furthermore, it is said – concern, the danger of the collapse of institutions that are of their importance to life and health. The sentence refers to agreements and says: Bulgarian diplomacy within the framework of bilateral co-operation with Serbia has done nothing to protect the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia. They posted it on the site, and then they packed it up nicely and sent it to your friend Stefan Phile. Stefan File, mentioned by Mr Krasic, answers that European institutions will take seriously the problem and position of the Bulgarian national minority in Serbia and teach the world public that basic postulates on which EU rights and freedoms of citizens, national minorities, etc. The questionnaire is mentioned and pre-accession procedures are mentioned where you will be discussed on the subject. You don't have to react that all of this isn't about the institutions of our country. One of the ringleaders of these attitudes, here it is in a picture published next to this text, the president of the Bosilegrad municipality. Isn't that right, Mr. Stajkovic? That's right. Is this the attitude of your party in Bosilegrad? Of course it is, but I understand if you're not talking, it's not a big deal. There's also a vet, also from Bosilegrad, who was paid by this state yesterday. So here is the priest of the SPC dressed in the canons of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. They were taken in front of Vasil Levski's monument, in front of the Serbian branch of the tax administration, among other things, gave them the power several months ago to hold a rally at which they attacked the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. No one else is to blame here. Do you know what it says in their picture? Bulgarians from Bosilegrad against Serbia's support. The president of the municipality is here, but we'll touch him a little later. Why is this dangerous, Mr. Minister? Here is the same man in the territory of the Republic of Serbia under the banner of the Republic of Bulgaria and the EU. In the middle of Serbia, a Serbian municipality president waved Bulgarian flags and the EU flag. You do not have a national flag of the Republic of Serbia at the Bosilegrad municipality administration building, and 100 metres from the Bosilegrad municipality administration building is the house of a certain Dimitri Dimitrov, which hangs pictures of participants in the assassination of King Alexander. You inform us that no one here disturbs public order and peace, and with Bulgaria we want to make agreements. Watch out now, November 7th was the Day of the Western Bulgarian provinces. I will remind you once again, the western Bulgarian provinces of the extreme, or political groups that are parliamentary groups in the Republic of Bulgaria and which support the rule of the Ataka group run by Hlebarov believe that the western Bulgarian provinces are part of the Republika Srpska municipality of Bosilegrad, Babisnica, part of the municipality of Surdulica and, of course, part of the municipality of Dimitrovgrad. They tried to come to Serbia to celebrate. One group passed the vehicles, and another group with mini-buses, which had a sign – VMRO, stopped at the border police. That's where the incident happened. Whatever size, intensity, I don't know. I wouldn't want to be insecure. Then the diplomacy of the Republic of Bulgaria in Serbia reacted. Let them deny me if I say they were protesting it. State shut up, state has no intention of responding. Our question is – why? For what? Is this some conspiracy theory or did we just show you that someone in Bosilegrad is trying to create a problem where he's not around? Citizens of Bulgarian nationality living in Serbia, I want to, I want to, and I have to repeat, I will not mind what I say, they are loyal citizens and they see Serbia as their own. They expect the government to solve this problem. This problem is made by five people, but these five people, now we're going back to the story of the president of the municipality, they've been given logistic support through the institutions. How can it be a bad country to someone from that same state who receives a salary of 100 and change thousands? How is that possible? Why isn't it going to that other country that's better for them? They don't mind the state when they're harassing her, but their rights and freedoms are at stake. How can a gentleman of vets not mind getting paid by yesterday from republican institutions? They're fighting for their rights. They're no good in Serbia. The state can't keep quiet about it. They cannot destroy Serbia and Serbia's constitutional order with the money of the Republic of Serbia. I can, but if you keep your mouth shut. You will be responsible if you allow someone to sow the seeds of evil in the territory of municipalities where the Bulgarian national minority lives. Citizens of the Bulgarian national community do not share a view or opinion with those who spread evil and nonsense. You are obliged, not personally, but by your government to react so that these things are rooted together and that the state there could deal with serious problems, life problems, to arrange our paths, to bring us strategic documents, to deal with schools, to deal with social institutions, to deal with industry, to solve the life problems of these citizens there, not to have someone under the auspices or in partnership with the EU trying to open up problems that are not and should not be. Once again, the SRS is appealing to all of you sitting in the government to stop closing your eyes and turning your head from serious problems, solve the problem with five people so that tens of thousands of people live normally as Serbia wants and wants and can make it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46348	MP Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mr Minister, four draft laws confirming an agreement on international co-operation with the MUP that is very important, and they are before us today. I am sorry that they are brought this way in the chamber atmosphere, which shows that at this time or not, the ruling majority does not want to take the importance of these documents or does not want to discuss them seriously. Even the number of registered speakers speaks about it. Motivation to pass these laws is certainly very important, especially because two very important areas of modern society, including Serbia, have been affected, and these are the international fight against crime and, secondly, the solving of problems caused by elemental disasters, elemental accidents, catastrophic events. So these are the four documents we're dealing with today. In their discussion, colleagues presented many other problems that are opening up to Serbian citizens. It would be good for the minister to take into account what is now said and certainly state in the Government what has been stated here. However, while respecting all the arguments presented under these four agreements ahead of us, which parliament should adopt, I would certainly say ahead of New Serbia that we are primarily in favour of an agreement on co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the problem of elementary accidents, natural disasters and other technological accidents. So Russia has a special ministry dealing with the defence of citizens. This could teach us exactly how the next government should be organised responsibly and how this portfolio should be employed, especially after the events of the last 20 years and changes, climate change caused by the planet, approach this problem both in Serbia and in other ways. So, among all four of these documents, we have specifically decided to support this very agreement, because we believe that this is very important for Serbia at the moment, and, as one speaker said, it is difficult for Serbia to deal with such problems. Russia is there much more powerful technologically, experiencedly, scientifically and in any case always ready and always open, given that we're on the same continent and that it's not as far as some people wanted to play it here, to help us. As it has always helped us and how even in some political disasters we have tried to rely on Russia earlier when we have been waiting for the famous Russian "it" to solve some of our problems, so it is also necessary that this agreement determines some relationship that they are legally soundly resolved and that we, as a country whose Russia is fond of, as a country which Russia is favored and always favoured, can at some difficult times be counted upon by such an alluring aid to such a technologically advanced state, which can solve at such times many of the problems that Serbia faces. But what has now opened up to us as one of the topics that we've been talking about is certainly this sad situation that's happened to us these days, so it's kind of worked out for us, and we didn't know that this point of the agenda is going to come right now when what happened in the King and that we wouldn't laminate over the situation in the King that's difficult and it's warning for us and that it's going to test all our resources, and humanitarian, and technological, and material, and human and all those other things that we have, and even these cooperatives with the countries, we're going to see who are friends now, who are enemies, because there's not a small accident that happens. If only one roof had fallen, if only one family had stayed ahead of the winter on the street, if only one child had spent a sleepless night because of something like that, it was not that small and no reason not to be worried about it. However, by adopting these agreements, we will certainly help the MUP to be even more responsible and even more serious about the crime it deals with, of course, without neglecting the crime in the country that is certainly current and which is linked to these issues, the construction mafia must be considered first and foremost. If we've ever had reason to deal with the construction mafia, I think my president spoke of it in more detail, certainly these events are also the reason because Serbia doesn't have seismological caution enough. We know that quite a large number of people have become wealthy precisely in the business of irresponsible construction, suspicious capital, suspicious permits, suspicious performers and unquestionable interests and unquestionably political ties, selling very expensive, overpriced squares to several Serbian citizens and very often leaving them without these squares. So, when events like this happen, it has already been shown that Belgrade has problems in certain parts so that some newer buildings, newly built buildings, renovated buildings, built-up buildings, and we know how much it was and how much more serious it was, the construction mafia and the construction exploitation, would thus not withstand a more serious seismological earthquake of the ground, so we have many questions to open up, much more seriously to deal with and much more seriously to stand before the citizens of Serbia, to answer some questions. I'm going to do a crackdown, although the minister isn't from that portfolio, but I expect him to pass it on to the government, and that's the subject of frequent flirting in law making, and the story of laws at all, there's a rumor about the law on restitution, and then one of the stones of stumbling right in the adoption of that law, which no one seriously accepts, is the construction mafia, and we all know that, and we all keep quiet about it. So, and that's one of the questions that binds all these problems and needs to be solved in any case, not to talk about troublesome, corrupt inspections that are very responsible and which really and when these problems come when the hospital walls break, when some buildings that aren't supposed to crack, crack, then many of them have to be responsible after that. It's not enough that we just feel for something and we're all humanitarian and we take pictures of families that have gone badly or tragically into this event, but someone after this has to answer for everything that isn't done as a prevention so that this accident that happened, which we couldn't affect, but at least to be less and less affected by the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Minister, New Serbia will certainly maintain this agreement in co-operation with the Russian Federation and we expect the minister for this support that we are giving him to justify the trust we are giving him.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46350	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three agreements ahead of us. I would refer to those agreements that touch co-operation in the area of crime, in the area of corruption, and the violence that is growing in our society. In the SRS' view, I don't think the government has been able to reduce the level of crime or corruption in these last two years. I am sorry that we have almost every session under some law or some ratification of an agreement relating to co-operation in the area of crime, but that the situation in the country is not significantly improving. Unfortunately, it seems to me that we are dealing with changing thesis, that we are dealing with convincing citizens that international agreements will solve the problems of crime in Serbia, and that the situation is much different than it looks at first sight. This agreement with Azerbaijan on co-operation and exchange of data, given the country's distance, is understandable. Of course it's acceptable for the SNS. As for this agreement with Bulgaria in the area of police co-operation, it is obvious that Bulgaria is one of the most criminalised countries in the EU, that no better situation, as I have just claimed, is neither in Serbia, given the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia. The fact is that the mafia is crossing the border, that criminals are moving from one country to another, and that co-operation is necessary. You did one part of it first of all by signing a few days ago with the CG and it's already given some results. It seems to me that we should take every opportunity to speak in this assembly of crime, because crime, corruption, is the wounds of this society. We have a current report from the European Commission, which sets corruption in fact into one of Serbia's biggest problems. I think that by the degree of corruption and among the last in Europe, there are reforms in the judiciary, and when all these are added together, it is obvious that the citizens of Serbia today are much more insecure than they were two years earlier, two years before the formation of this current government. We're not dealing with the cause of crime. The policy led by the government and led by it in the previous period unfortunately deepens the important social differences and the social factor, when it comes to crime, is becoming more and more pronounced in Serbian society. One sense of imperceptibility and one failed transition, a bunch of failed privatisations and very bad examples of crime, corruption not being sanctioned, that justice exists in Serbia today only "for those who are poor". For those great, for those tycoons who are networked, there is no justice. Today you can get into a situation where the government changes privatisation contracts as it suits it to cover up the failures in the privatisation process, to cover up and open numerous affairs in newspapers, media that are not sanctioned at all. We can't see the end and end of these affairs. It's all what affects one general uncertainty and a general mistrust in our country, in our society. To go the right way in an orderly society that you and we from the opposition, when I say you from the government and us from the opposition, you promised. What bothers me and SNS very much is that today we don't literally see where this society is going. What kind of capitalism are we building today? Is this capitalism, which is purely liberal, crazy, tycoonish, I would say, corresponds to Serbian citizens? You don't have the courage to answer that question. This capitalism, the kind of social system we are building today, is causing great trouble to all citizens of Serbia. We have come out of a society where the degree of social protection has been significantly higher, and today we live in a society where there is no compassion with citizens, where the state does not care enough about citizens, where citizens are dying of hunger, where alienation, loneliness of citizens and how present. The confidence of most citizens that they are left to themselves seems to me to be another basis for crime, for self-discovery and willingness to come out of some legal frameworks that systematically do not allow a decent and civilized life to live. What is noticeable is that the objection is great to the irresponsibility of the government that promotes social tensions, irresponsibility and us politicians who are very often promising more than we can meet, but also the irresponsibility when it comes to certain jobs and standards of citizens in Serbia. It's obviously on stage a serious moral degradation of our society, that today's new time, as the protagonists of the new world order like to say, demands new morals, but morality is not something that is built overnight. Today we came into a situation where our own morale, where we weren't on some envious level, where we were mostly based on the fear of sanctions, possibly the desire to be part of most, of society, of being a part of us, of becoming a part of us, of social morality that I don't even talk about. So there are many reasons why crime is emerging in Serbia today, which is why it flourishes, and the government almost has no solution for all that is happening. The latest example of the mafia that was organized when it comes to gas stations, probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will be obsolete, and in the minds of all of us there is a dilemma as to whether it is worth living by the laws of this country, respecting the rules, respecting morality. Can respecting morale, respecting the laws of today, or is it necessary to be part of a criminalised society, which in the long run creates a basis for even greater criminalization of our society and prevents us from solving all these problems that we have? The condemnation of crime today is purely verbal or a reflection of a duality. In practice, the situation is very different. We often have examples that we speak one thing, another we do, that some politicians don't hesitate to go public with people who have a suspicious reputation. When you add all this together, it is obvious that the area of crime and corruption has not treated this government properly in the previous period and that there is a need for more serious government cuts, that there are not enough bilateral, multilateral agreements with individual countries in the environment to correct all this. We have a major problem with institutional crime, with the fact that in our state and government control the gross capital, that because we don't have a competition match, which we don't have the right to market economy creates a space for even greater criminalisation of our society, and in the area of legislation, the big problem is sanctioning these phenomena, which would somehow mean that crime in Serbia is being dried up. The very reform of the judiciary, by the fact that cases arriving in courtrooms are very late, with a great delay, to be prosecuted slowly, further burdens the belief that crime in Serbia can be eradicated. Unfortunately, in the opinion of the SNS, we are getting further from the rule of law, and as I have already established and I want to repeat – these agreements are welcome, but this is only a drop in the sea of all those measures that need to be implemented in order to start clearing up crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46352	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic. You've got two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46353	In its explanation, it says nicely, especially this agreement between the RS and the Russian Federation, that natural and human factors caused by accidents do not know the borders of the state, especially as a result of global climate change, and that damages, floods, droughts and fires would not be sufficient for the most powerful rescue services of any country, I would say even the famous US and any alliance, even if it was NATO. A pleasant refreshment, Mr. Obradovic, and pass it on to Minister Dacic, is your commitment to co-operation with countries such as Russia, Bulgaria and not only because they are Orthodox, but because they have never contributed to Serbia, due to the bombing of the poored uranium, makes something much worse than a natural disaster. Speaking of basic disasters, I cannot help but mention our King and all that is happening in him, and again as Minister of Government, I ask you to convey to the Prime Minister de facto and de jure the words of singer Seka Alexic, who has taught many statesmen, bodies and institutions a lesson from humanity, taking over personal responsibility and solidarity with people who are suffering. On Seka's Facebook page, she received the following message -- the Honorable Mr. President, I would be delighted if you would support the King with a higher amount of money than the one you've set aside for a gay parade. If you would also support the humanitarian concert that my colleagues and I are planning in the Belgrade arena, if the state with you at the helm would help those families. Support and help the people who voted you for president of our country. Thank you for them and for me. Furthermore, in an interview with "Alo", she explained that she was provoked in public criticism by the twice-arshine that the president is applying to address the problem of endangered citizens. President Tadic has proved that he is pursuing European integration, so he has helped sustain a gay parade in Belgrade earnestly, but I think it would be my turn now to support all those who have bigger life problems than parade and these people are proud, so they do not complain that their rights of life are threatened, and they need help. She notes that she has not noticed the president's moves to support and help those who have been facing an unremembered disaster in recent days. As we singers organize to collect aid, the president has yet to do anything concrete. I urge him to raise his voice and prove by his own example why he was chosen to be the first among the equal citizens of Serbia. So, Seka Aleksic says this rightly because she was among the first to come to the aid of vulnerable families and endangered countrymen by taking them bigger quantities of milk, water breakout, while her friend Dule from Cačka, where someone who was ready for immediate action, personally drove two of the helmets with a scratch. Please, Ministers, Mr. Effective Prime Minister, and the person in the role of Serbian president and the joke that is extensively circulating Serbia - what is Boris Tadic's next action to join the EU? To apologize to the earthquake that Serbia was on its way to Greece.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46354	Will you please bring the end? Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I give my word to Minister, Mr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46355	I must say, I am sorry that Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is not with you today. He's officially absent. I want to apologize to all of you on his behalf and say that when I said I was sorry that he wasn't here, I think he's more competent than I'm going to be in this situation, so I can answer these questions that have been heard today about these four agreements, or the draft laws that have been given to the Assembly for adoption. Otherwise, the government appreciates that it is very important agreements, i.e. proposals for a number of reasons. It's not just a matter of natural disasters and the way we solve it. Agreements with Russia and Bulgaria regarding police co-operation and assistance and co-operation related to the work of customs authorities, or Azerbaijani, related to co-operation in the field of fight against crime. It is a common area, if I may say, of issues that are important to Serbia. Why am I saying this? More conversators today mentioned that countries must help each other if they want to prevent all these criminal acts that are happening in the environment. It is indisputable that Serbia has concluded these agreements with the surrounding countries, especially now that almost all countries have abolished the visa regime and freedom of travel has become something that is part of our lives, for Serbia since last year, and now for some other countries, and some of course are earlier. It is very important that good co-operation exists among the police, between the interior ministries of the countries. I mention this because I think it's a good thing that this agreement is also about Russia in co-operation in the field of humanitarian response in emergency situations and the prevention of elementary disasters, and of technogenic hawari and the removal of their effects on the subject of a plea. Maybe for the first time, we've learned more about this subject for the first time, undeniably, for the first time. What if, to be honest, Russia's assistance in this area of Serbia is valuable, given everything Russia has as its capacities or what Serbia needs. That's not supposed to be kept secret. Any help is precious, when you're simply not in a situation of some sort to solve because you don't have those options. What is important and what I want to tell you about other issues, given that not many fellow Members of Parliament participated in the debate, and I have an obligation to say something about the issues we mentioned. As for the issues mentioned by counterpart Stevanovic, I am fully convinced that as far as minority policy is concerned, the state of Serbia can serve all surrounding countries as an example of good minority policy, i.e. the policy it implements towards members of different minority communities. Just look at the report by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which discusses the application of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Rights or the report by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on minority policy in Serbia, you will see how much wealth it is, as I would say, good moves Serbia is carrying out. I also know this from some other discussions, an opportunity, that Serbia is objectively in the area of Southeast Europe the only country that has a large number of minority members and different minority groups. It is true that the position of individual minority communities of people, i.e. individuals or perhaps certain stakeholders want to exploit, in order to in some ways harm the Republic of Serbia and what they are doing. When it comes to the issue asked by counterpart Antić about our fight against crime and corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that it is not Mr Dacic here, because he would have given a shine, believe me on the word, concrete information that tells me how far the Republic of Serbia has achieved the results in the fight against crime and corruption over the past two years, and various forms of crime. If you want, both numerous and statistical. Why do crime and corruption exist? They exist because it is part of a transition society and not only exists in Serbia, there are in all countries, since the world and centuries of crime and corruption exist, more or less. It is not Serbia's exception to other countries, only the question is raised – to what extent is it responding and are the institutions strong, are the laws of quality, are they implemented, are real mechanisms found to prevent certain phenomena? There, the experience of other countries needs to be used. I'm saying this because Parliament, I think, has talked more than once about fighting the state against crime and corruption, that it has passed appropriate laws. We must all be prepared that corruption exists and I say, not only in Serbia, but in all countries of Europe. It is only a matter of what extent and how much public attention is given. Then it's over-emphasizing. But to deny the results of Serbia and the MUP and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what it has done over the past two years, believe me, I don't think it's working. The MUP contains a number of information on how much it seemed. Of course that's not enough because of everything that's our country's characteristic, but that's where we need to take some steps forward. I wouldn't talk about privatisation because it's a very old problem. He has numerous, multiple and negative consequences in some years, from some years ago. I am sorry that we may not have accepted some other concept of privatisation, that workers be the owners of the majority package of actions, and that workers decide to whom, as well as how much they will sell the company, or their actions. Another government, in some other years before, accepted another concept that did not show itself to a certain degree of quality, which does not mean that privatisation itself did not have positive things. It was a commitment, if you want the societies that voted for certain solutions and for the work of the then government. In any case, it is good that the government responds, that those privatisations that have not yielded results, that those privatisations that are not part of the obligation of legal annulment and that it also tries to help these companies and the people who work in them, that companies, if I may say, rise from the dead and get on their feet and start redecorating again. When it comes to the King, I cannot help but mention that the interior minister, with counterpart Maric, who is assistant minister of emergency, arrived in the Kingdom during the night, was Prime Minister the next day, and during the day, the President of the Republic. On that day, they absolutely demonstrated one support, moral support for the people of the King who were affected by the earthquake. In that first day, nothing else could be done. If someone thinks that the King's question can be solved overnight, he is wrong, because the King has experienced a series of these waves of earthquakes, where from the day the earthquake occurred, and practically until yesterday, every day more or less severe earthquakes occurred, and the crisis staff itself is in a situation where, compared to the expert opinion, the commissions that work must sometimes revise their views. This is what I'm saying as Minister of Education, who is very familiar with the state of school. In fact, there are 98 objects in the King. These facilities belong to primary and secondary schools, there are 21 primary schools, two special schools, nine secondary schools, 98 facilities, and I know that expert commissions have been trying for days to determine the exact damage of objects and I have here expert findings, but what you're going to do when that expert finding is made, during the night there is a new earthquake, and then you need to re-check the safety of that facility. Mr Ilic said that the issue of statistics is the most important issue, because if the facility is not ready to withstand the burden of any future earthquake or poses a threat to teaching, it is logical that we will not allow children to go to school. I suggested to the mayor that schools be a priority, of course, after the hospital, that the system be put into operation as soon as possible and that every day the number of schools increase. I received a promise that these expert commissions will soon finish their work and that practically Monday will be the first day of work, not for all schools, for those schools that can endure it. I was also in a situation to visit five schools that are considered the most damaged, high school, the second high school that is close to the high school, or upgraded to it, two elementary schools, one special school. You really have objects where it's impossible to teach until some construction facilities are solved. I say, the basic problem with the King is that there has been a large number of earthquakes of less strength than that of the destructive one, so basically the crisis staff and all the expert teams have forced each day to do the job over and over again. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, I am fully convinced that the government will do its part of the job, which means essentially helping these people in the Kingdom to repair the facilities as soon as possible and that the simple life will return to normal pace. It is no doubt that the assistance of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is valuable from all areas. I also heard today, colleague Jankovic, for this comment, I do not think there is a need for the President of the Republic to be criticised in this way because the President of the Republic is working within his jurisdiction, and on the first day he was in the Kingdom and gave support to both the citizens of the Kings and what makes the crisis headquarters, and all others do as much as they can. If they do as much as they can, we will help the King very much. In any case, I am glad that this set of laws will be voted not only by the parties that make up the government's majority, but also by other parties. It says that yet around these laws, about their importance, about the importance of Serbia, there is one general agreement and that there is no division around the parties, about the congregation's majority or minority, that there is agreement that these laws should be passed. Compared to some other questions he asked, for example, my colleague Ilic, I will inform the Ministers of Resorts both for Umka and Beška, but I know from some personal experience from the 1990s that the problem of Umka is a problem that has existed for decades, that the Sava flow is so directed to the question of whether it is possible to make way in this area of Duboke. For years, I have been going that way, so I know that Belgrade and the 1990s had an idea to create a hotline to use TA "Nikola Tesla" from Obrenovac and that this energy was used for the purposes of heating Belgrade and that it was always a problem with which route to do so, is the problem, as Mr Ilic said, across the river or to go to Duboc and how much money it takes to get rid of that space at Umka, although there are some opinions whether it can be solved. But since I'm not competent for these things, I'm going to tell my colleagues, and Dulic and Mrkonjic, these questions and, of course, ask them to answer. In any case, I thank you all for the discussions on these laws and express the satisfaction of the government that most MPs believe these laws should be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-11-10-0.u46356	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a joint single search. We continue work tomorrow, Thursday, November 11th, at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 84 MPs are present in the O.R., which means there are working conditions. I ask if any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Allow me to inform you that in accordance with the provisions of Article 286. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will represent MP Riza Halimi, LDP MP Zoran Ostojic, SRS MP Boris Aleksic. First came the People's Ambassador Riza Halimi. Mr. Halimi, you have your word.
