ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42854	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for work or that there are more than one third of the MPs present in the National Assembly Hall I would like to inform them that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Verko Stevanović, Sava Čočić, Miljan Rangelović, Draga Damjanović, Nebojsa Zdravković, Nikola Novaković and Simo Vukovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, besides the representative of the promoter Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Service, has called for the meeting of ministers Ljiljana Stankovic, Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, as well as Professor Stipe Lovret, special adviser to the minister. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TRADE LAW (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and this is: Parliament group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliamentary group SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; Parliament group SPS - 18 minutes; MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every once every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, PUPS parliamentary group; MP Zoran Kasalovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Donka Banovic, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and MP Zoran Krasic, the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Slobodan Milosavljevic, the minister of trade and services, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42855	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, thank you for your opportunity to be informed of the proposal for a law on trade. For many years we have been working on this law, practically a year we have had a public debate on this law and you have a clear, short, concise, precise and law that is absolutely applicable in practice. He has 81 members and the law on trade is practically a system and roof law not only for the trade sector, but also for the country's environment and as such I am sure that it will make our country, our economic space even more attractive for attracting foreign investment. The subject of this law is any transport of goods and services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Whenever someone sells something, regardless of whether it's registered traders or whether it's those who deal with trade as a special activity, such as schools, medical institutions, registered farmers, but also some free professions, such as lawyers, taxi drivers, artists, it's all a trade. The basic principle of which it is based in this law is the principle of free trade and the law practically prohibits all restrictions on the freedom to carry out traffic on the market. All market participants are equal before the law, have the same legal position and equal treatment on the market. Serbia's market is comprehensive, unique and indivisible in this law. The Republic of Serbia is still in the transition of its economy, practically in its translation towards a full functional economy, and despite the fact that significant results have already been achieved, much more needs to be done to achieve a modern market structure and to practically integrate this entire space into the single space of the European market. As one of the key factors for the development of the modern market structure, investors and other market participants highlight the institutional environment, the legal framework of business and legal certainty. The Law on Trade is one of the most significant regulations in light of these very requirements. The law should have a central place in the regulation system governing the transport of goods and services in the Republic of Serbia's market. The main objective of the law is to ensure a stable and supplied market, with as much intense competition as possible and as little State interference in trade in goods and services. In a conceptual sense, this law practically stemmed from a strategy for the development of trade in the Republic of Serbia, a document the government adopted for the first time in Serbia's history and practically came out of it. The law on trade also represents a kind of small codification of trade law, a Serbian Lex Mercatorium that unites matter from so far three laws covering the area. These are the former federal law on trade, the Law on conditions for the provision of goods, the provision of services in the transport of goods and inspection and the Prices Act. In this way, a single and comprehensive legal framework for the operation of the transport of goods and services on our market is defined, preventing the emergence of cohesion in rules, definitions or conditions for the provision of traffic. This law for the first time in our commercial legislation makes a precise division towards the place of trade, such as a store in a sales facility and a trade outside of a sales facility. Remote trade, private offerings and other shops outside the sale facility, including kiosks, gigs and so on. The ambulatory trade makes up the forms of this second category of trade. The paper is also the introduction of the concept of trade format as an organisational and technical form of trade, which has a specific sales strategy for customers and competitors, so that this law practically defines all trading formats that appear or will appear on our market, starting with malls, shopping malls, hypermarkets, supermarkets, discount, outlets, etc. The law on trade also defines specific market institutions that contain a set of characteristics that require their specific regulation. These are stock exchanges, fairs, other business exhibitions and traditional events, markets, wholesale shops, as well as auction houses and public competition. The law lays down general terms and conditions for trade and those relating to persons performing trade, i.e. persons having the property of a trader within the meaning of this law, followed by compliance with the conditions laid down in specific regulations, minimum technical conditions, minimum conditions which must meet the employees, places of trade, properties of goods, documents accompanying goods in traffic, prices at which goods or services are offered to the buyer, etc. In addition to the general conditions, the conditions for carrying out retail trade are laid down and that the labelling of goods by declaration containing the basic information on the name and type of goods, and all other prescribed data and the highlighting of the trader's business name, the emphasis on working time and all the essential information for the consumer. Newspapers are also foreseen when emphasising the price that the trader is obliged to point out in a clear, unquestionable, easily visible and legible manner in the currency of payment traffic in our country. What particularly characterizes this law is the creation of conditions for an important improvement in the analytical monitoring of the structure and movement on the market, then aid in defining the measures of economic policy in the function of market development, intensification of economic activity, and all this is possible in the right way only if there is adequate, reliable, continuous and credible data on the state of trade and the trade network in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to point out that the law on trade is also a fundamental legal framework for the operation of market inspection. In this respect, a number of newspapers that create the conditions for reforming this very important market institution, which, according to this law, should take a serious step away from that institution that punishes and sanctions an institution that educates, helps businessmen and traders and which gives practical advice on how to carry out business under the law. All in all, this is a law that deserves to be analysed by you, honourable Members of Parliament. In the public debate procedure, we held 23 sessions across Serbia's territory, talked to representatives of the Association of Merchants, major and significant traders, trade associations, chamber systems, scientific and professional public, practically with all those who showed desire and interest in getting a modern, European law that will also have sustainability, and will last much longer and after Serbia's entry into the EU. What I would also like to point out is that this law also takes a first step based on a recent initiative to further decentralise the affairs of the state administration, and that in the direction of one part of the inspection work in the area of surveillance of trade outside the retail facility, means other than remote trade, the units of local self-government will be carried out through a municipal inspection. This shows that we want much greater and more intensive co-operation with local self-governments, who know much better in the field what is going on in their municipalities and cities, and I believe that this new co-operation of market and municipal inspectors will bring quality and less illegal trade in the streets of our cities and municipalities. All in all, after a long debate, we came before you with this bill and I ask you to be constructive, to try the amendments, if possible and where possible, to make this law even better and better. At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to invite you to support the adoption of this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42856	Before continuing to work by giving a word to the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 85, I am informing the National Assembly that today we will only be doing a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Trade, which is currently the subject of our work. If the debate ends before 6:00 p.m., it will mean the end of work for today. We will not move to the next item of the agenda – changes and additions of the Traffic Safety Act. This is why government representatives, namely Interior Minister Ivica Dacic and a number of Assembly MPs, are obliged to do so, since today a Chinese delegation is visiting Serbia with a programme that implies the mandatory presence of both government representatives and representatives of the Assembly, so today we will only be doing a review of the proposal for a law on trade. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42857	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of building the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law on trade is an extremely important law for several reasons. First of all, it's a codification of regulations in this area. I will remind you that this matter has so far been regulated in three laws – the Law on Trade, whose basic text was since 1993, with innovations since 2002, the Law on Prices and the Law on Conditions for the operation of the traffic of goods, the operation of goods and inspection services. This law is indeed a roof law in this area. Its implementation will allow investment in the first place. It is one of the most positive effects of this law, with this normative aspect that I have mentioned. The law clearly norms the conditions for carrying out commercial activity as a very significant branch of economic activity and the economic branch for our and economic legal system. The law treats two groups of entities, and these are firstly traders, companies, public enterprises, and so far a number of social enterprises. It also refers to farmers, registered agricultural holdings, but what is very important is to point out, treat and position consumers, therefore, the final users of this activity, i.e. the final users of commercial activity. So by codifying the regulations in this area that we have contained in this act, we will also enable existing companies and entrepreneurs who perform this activity to an environment that is much more favourable, much simpler. On the other hand, we will send a clear message to both domestic and foreign investors to invest in this very important area of the Serbian economy. What is also important to point out, although it was already presented by the minister in his opening statement, are greater powers of local self-government so that we have clear decentralisation, which is elaborated in this law. I will only stand out one more institute, and that is the measure of confiscation of goods that has been present so far in the current legislation. In the future, it will not apply to registered entities carrying out this activity, but only to so-called. The gray zone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42858	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, want a word? (No) Does MP Momir Markovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I heard the Minister this morning, and I had previously read in my explanation for the adoption of this law that this was a modern, modern, European law, and I realized that I was right to give my opinion. There are many reasons why an opinion should be expressed. Let me remind you, and it looks like while Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic went to China, our ministers didn't watch television, they didn't read the paper, so they didn't see there that Angela Merkel, one of the EU's top figures, unequivocally said that Serbia would not go to Europe, at least until 2026, and as it started, my grandson would probably discuss whether we were going to Europe or not, when it was there. I think it's easier to say why I've singled out an opinion, since I only have five minutes, I'd stick to some key things, and then I'll have a lot more to say in principle. So I'll just look back at a few illogicalities. First, I will read article 81 of this law, which says: This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Journal, which means in seven or eight days, and will apply from 1 January 2011. Why, Minister, did you not say that this law came into force on 1 January 2011 and that we should then clear the air. What is it that you need from the eighth day from the day of publication in the official list until January 1, 2011? This is about the 44th page of this bill. Thus, it is argued: "The adoption of a new law governing the transport of goods and services will not directly reflect the situation in the area governed by this law, without the implementation of specific measures and activities aimed at achieving full and fair application." Well done. Very well written, mentally, but at the same time it means nothing. In fact, it means that this law is inapplicable until the moment when some sublaw, which will be passed in this period, will allow this law to be applicable. In the first place, this refers to the application of sublegal acts. You've explained that nicely. Second - there is a need to reform the way in which market inspection operations are carried out. What has the market inspection done so far without being in accordance with this law or with the previous law, so you have to reform the work of the market inspection, as well as the preparation of communal inspections for taking over transactions that are entrusted, etc.? Thirdly, both law enforcement authorities and all law enforcement entities need to be brought closer to new legal solutions through appropriate training. Will you, Mr. Minister, now train Miskovic to trade or do you think you train consumers how to buy? Who is it that you will now, in accordance with this law, when you enter into force on 1 January 2011, who will you train? It says – training, training, providing explanations and interpretations in light of application, as well as taking public awareness-raising activities on the new legal framework in the area of transport of goods and services. Minister, what awareness do we need to raise by this law, more specifically you from the Ministry of Trade in the public and what is this new legal framework in the area of goods and services of this law? I'll remind you of one more thing. Instead of making those 600 laws, which we have already passed and for which, one-third, you are preparing for that famous guillotine, because it has proved to be inapplicable, that they are unnecessary, we should start proposing and adopting laws that will be compatible not with the EU – not people, but with Russia, with China, here, today we have a delegation of China, the SRS is pleased that the Chinese delegation will come and welcome us here, with India, with Latin America and with all those countries where our goods are traffic and whose goods are to come here. I'll say a lot of things in the debate in principle, but this time, in five minutes, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42860	Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic has a word, so MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42861	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected associates, Madam Chairman, the system of regulations governing the transport of goods and services that has been in force since the time of the SRJ has long been overcome. The proposal for a law on trade, which we are discussing today in principle, must finally be given a central place in the system of new regulations that need to be passed on to this basic law, and it concerns currently unregulated total traffic, so, procurement, sales, as well as the overall behaviour of various traffic participants. When this National Assembly definitely considers issues of competition protection, consumer protection, when a trade standard law is adopted, when the regulation determines the categorisation of the quality of all goods, when the law lays down all elements of the security of goods and services and when specific regulations define certain types of trade, such as the stock market, electronic, external trade and when the free and customs zones are strengthened, the system of all regulations that would allow for a complete trade law, with all constituent elements, without which there is no free trade on our own and also foreign market today. We are deeply aware of the fact that the old trade law solutions have long been overcome, that trade restrictions have become intolerable and restrictive, that all incentives for successful trade in the domestic and foreign markets have been neglected, and that both inspection and fair, fair trade matches have been bypassed precisely because of the unsustainable and inaccuracy of the provisions of the old law. In its experience, the PUPS, in its legislative adoption and in our country, is committed to the rapid and effective creation of full legal certainty of all commercial and commercial entities in total domestic and foreign trade. Our principled approaches to the adoption of the law on trade assume the need to first resolve parallel laws in the area of protection of competition to standardisation and security of goods, and then adopt both the main law or the basic law. Regardless of this point, we will make a full contribution to the successful and rapid adoption of the law on trade, bearing in mind that this draft law, despite the urgency of the procedure, removes a large number of inaccuracies to the provisions of the Law on Trade of 1993, as well as the Law on conditions for the operation of the traffic of goods and goods from 1996, which significantly damaged the legal security of all economic and commercial entities, participants in trade. We are aware of the fact that Serbia has been going through difficult times of trade in sanctions and trade in transition and now in the conditions of the severe economic crisis, and therefore we are pushing for a faster alignment of all the rules on conditions of trade and protection against unfair competitions, and all of this in the context of EU rules and rules of the generalised CEFTA and WTO directives, all agreements that kind of discipline us in both senses, in the modern conduct of trade, and in particular in the protection of competitions, i.e. to protect consumers. We are aware of the facts of the years of technological lagging in the organisation and implementation of trade activities on our territory, regardless of the justification of all the reasons for this. Serbia has so far failed to establish, and even less preserves, a good structure of trade facilities and improves the development of trade entrepreneurship. The market game took place, it's a fact, in monopolies and unfair conditions. The equality of traders and trade depended only on the small or larger involvement of the state in determining the system of protection of economic operators, the protection of commodity reserves, the subsidisation of certain products and direct investment in certain goods, which significantly disrupted the legal security of all participants in the business and their payment-balance situation. We hope that the new law will regulate a significantly more effective system of protection of all economic operators in trade, from illicit acts of self-will of the administration and illegal acts in restrictions and supervision of trade outside the legal bases. This law must change and reform inspection, quality control system and control services in the transport of goods and services with the normative safety and responsibility of all participants in the trade, from the manufacturer to the consumer. The 2009 strategy for the development of trade in the Republic of Serbia, mentioned by the minister, also obliged the Assembly, and the competent ministry, as well as the Government to convince this law to establish the modern nomenclature and the classification of all forms and modes of trade, to specify new trade institutes, such as trade formats and new special marketing institutions in the cash-and-cheese system, mega-markets, etc. Serbia is currently affected by monopoly trade systems. General conditions for the provision of goods and services, as well as for all commercial transactions and other business activities on the internal market in Serbia, are determined by monopolies and their behaviour. All together, we have the opportunity to now establish a new law on trade, above all, the worldly and regulated principles of trade: the principle of free trade, which we only declare and do not implement, equality and prohibition of trade discrimination, the principle of the single market, the principle of security and honesty in trade, the principle of stability and regular supply of the market, the principle of proportionality and the particular principle of co-operation. We are aware that the prescribed principles of trade in Serbia will be difficult to live up to the solutions set out in this law, and that the urgent adoption and additional efforts of the state for another number of sublegislative acts will be needed, allowing these principles to become a post-utilisation of the activities of trade and services and the supreme responsibility of all those involved in the trade. Legal persons and entrepreneurs establish their status under clear rules and conditions, with the categorization of forms and ways of trade. Farmers registered for trade and services will exercise their activity in trade in goods and provide services in accordance with this law, but also in accordance with the mandatory application of the rules governing agriculture, agricultural products, quality and regularity of those products and services. The law now defines persons who can traffic goods, i.e. fish, or harvested fruit, and with regard to specific rules on hunting, fishing and forestry, which was very missing in the previous Trade Act. The law also defines persons who are authorised to provide services with special regulations with cash compensation in free professions, such as art studios, galleries, antique shops, etc. The law defines official natural persons who can sell their own secondhand items, handicrafts, sales of art and crafts products of domestic work, etc. We believe that the law must have been even clearer in the area of regulating trade classifications towards places to do trade and provide services. The definition of sales facilities implies a unique physical, functional and technical-technological continent in which this activity is temporarily or permanently carried out. The new term of trade format, which covers the sales strategy towards customers, which Mr. Minister spoke of, and the competitors are now defined by this law, but its positioning on the market will follow only on the creation of all other conditions under the accompanying laws and regulations of the competent ministry, which should be adopted by an urgent procedure. We believe that the law now opens up new opportunities in all three forms of retail trade, both in the area of remote trade through means of communication, and in the trade of personal offering between traders and customers, and in the retail trade of a small non-sale facility carried out in portable facilities, such as various stands, kiosks, etc. The law modernised the issue of special market institutions. It is good that we adapt to the world and create new orderly forms of markets that make the meet of sellers and customers for sale or promotion of goods and are, above all, a stock market, a product market, a fair, a large exhibition, festivals with cultural and economic content, then traditional fairs and general markets and green and markets, etc. New legal solutions allow the introduction of works of auction houses for the sale of non-standardised goods, then tourism services agencies, goods support and intervention agencies, commission agencies, stock exchange agencies, goods insurance agencies, quality control agencies and quantity of goods, and advertising with marketing research. Therefore, this law allows for a very wide range of palettes and nomenclatures of activity that can be registered within trade. We believe that the proposed conditions for doing trade must be more severe by at least one more level compared to the proposed level. The minimum technical conditions regarding the space, equipment and equipment for the storage of goods according to the properties of goods, the external features of space, the way of sale in our country must be superb. Sanitary-Technical, veterinary, health, hygiene and health protection of goods and devices must be according to the highest world standards, taking into account events with various safeguards. The properties of goods or services employed in trade must be on a standard prescribed not only by EU countries but also by wider communities. It is good that the law now requires strict records of the changes and the strictness of the review of declarations and atheists, as well as of all the intended marks of the specific characteristics of goods and services. The PUPS Group considers that the Ministry must not hesitate to prescribe, immediately after the adoption of the law, a series of sublegal acts relating to the fulfilment of the conditions for the performance of trade, starting with the definition of persons performing trade, and through technical conditions, to the correct declaration of goods and services. The PUPS believes that it is extremely important to correctly highlight the prices that the trader is obliged to point out in a clear, unquestionable, easily visible and legible way, that this is a very important aspect of our trade and services, as well as ways to highlight the pricer, but also how to measure where goods are measured and sold. The responsibility of traders and service providers established by this law is to highlight the business name of the trader, to highlight working time, to highlight the conditions and the way in which goods and services are offered, with particular reference to various actions, discounts, sales, promotions, etc. We propose at least a slightly higher level of liability for traders compared to consumers or customers. Directive 986 of the EU on consumer protection and price emphasis, as well as Directive 20529 of the EU on unfair commercial and commercial practices, has so far had a large number of proven damages to customers in trade and use of services in our conditions in the Republic of Serbia. We expect the Ministry, by emergency procedure, to produce and publish our consumer protection declaration against all unfair commercial and commercial practices, which were also known on the domestic market. The PUPS considers that the law provides for the measures to be imposed by market inspection within the scope of its powers well covered, in particular, all possibilities for the removal of identified irregularities in trade and the provision of services, to enable the rapid application of the ban on the transport of harmful goods or of non-quality provision of certain services and to allow the rapid temporary closure of non-quality sales facilities, therefore, shops, the rapid ban on the provision of certain shops and the rapid confiscation of counterfeit goods. In that sense, the Ministry deserves every commendation. If, in practice, this level of protection of the rights and interests of customers and consumers required by law is ensured, with the necessary technical progress through the amendments, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law and will vote in favour of its adoption in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42862	13 minutes and 20 seconds of MP time have been used. Before we continue with the order of the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the LDP parliamentary group will represent MP Zoran Ostojic on the 2nd item of the agenda. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42863	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that the proposal for a law on trade is a very important law because it is practically a roof law governing the transport of goods and services in one general way. Surely it is conditioned, that is, by its proposal and adoption, by some overcoming provisions of the law of this matter from the last decade and the beginning of the decade of this century, and of course by the emergence of new ways and conditions of trade and by this law they are effectively regulated. Of course, the whole billing process is used to also comply with the rules for carrying out trade with EU rules. The legislator set himself an entirely logical goal, therefore, a stable and supplied market, with as little State interference as possible. It is a logical goal because excessive State interference can often negatively affect the development of sound competition, and in such conditions it is possible from market operators to run competition through high prices, central service, lower turnover of capital. In conditions of sound competition, it must be managed with as low a price, a better service, and of course it is the best combination for consumers. If we look at how the competition was primarily held in the retail sector, where a large number of consumers are moving, it mainly shows and says that retail networks had to be inventive, to design new ways of trade, a better service, and it certainly reflected the quality and satisfaction of consumers. On the trail of some of these solutions, designed with a certain measure, which creates such a stimulating environment for the development of healthy competition, I would like to absorb some solutions. These are primarily the principles which speak of trade being carried out freely on the market and that restrictions on the freedom of trade are prohibited, other than those provided for in the law, i.e. which are contrary to the law and that, of course, all traders are equal on the market, i.e. have equal legal treatment. In addition to the provision that education is a free market price, in addition to certain restrictions, it is clearly talked about creating an environment favourable to the development of healthy competition. There are some provisions with perhaps a opposite sign, but I would say on the same background and they concern certain provisions, therefore restrictions or obligations. First of all, when it comes to trading formats, a new form of regulation of trade, which is already in place on our market, is envisaged for them, for formats that possess over two thousand square metres of gross storage space, making impact studies on the structure of the market and, of course, assessing the positive impact, which will certainly contribute to the possibility of negotiating these trading formats and achieving a monopoly position on the market, but also on the basis of this study a more even schedule of this type of trade on the market and better coverage of the trade offer. This law also very precisely regulates the way in which the government is mixed and precise in Article 46 that it is possible only in conditions of significant market disturbance, i.e. in conditions where people's lives and health are threatened and limited to a period of one year. The clear provisions of the law prohibiting unfair competition, i.e. actions aimed at the damages of other competitors at the time of breach of the code of conduct of a normal norm, and the prohibition of illicit speculation and of actions which cause significant market disturbances in terms of supply, demand or price and apostrophe of the ban on the conclusion of a commercial transport contract, and the ban on pyramid trade allowing customers to buy goods or services only from chains, i.e. traders involved in that chain of resales under certain conditions, are certainly provisions with some opposite sign, but are in the direction of creating a favourable environment for competition development. So, given the above all of this provision, it can be said that it rightly corresponds to the modern solutions known in the EU and will certainly contribute to better regulation of the market and to the development of sound competition, which will certainly be an invitation for new investors, and certainly be a candidate for the state as one of the factors that in market democracy needs first of all to provide an ambience, not as an inefficient state. This will primarily be a key reason why the SPS – JS MPs will in principle support this bill. The bill also introduces a modern classification of trade, commercial formats, as well as specific market institutions, such as the trade market fairs, auction houses and public competition, markets and wholesalers. As far as the market is concerned, I would like to say that it is certainly a very significant and popular form of trade, and probably all of us here often use it, primarily from habit, and also with the idea and belief that fresh products are sold and offered on the markets. It may be a trade that is a kind of market barometer where prices are formed without any restrictions. The provisions of Article 25 are really good and accurately defined by this form of trade. However, realistically looking at the situation in the Republic of Serbia and in certain parts, and above all in underdeveloped municipalities, and even in the middle-developed municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, it can be seen that part of these provisions is certainly not enforceable at this time and that without some significant support and one elaborate programme of all relevant institutions, including the competent ministry, these provisions of the law will likely be violated. First of all, I think they're good and they need to meet, and a good example might be the way in which this problem is solved in the lack of financial resources. The example is a public-private partnership which has been successfully implemented in the municipality of Apatin. However, it took more than two years to obtain the necessary consent and finally from the Property Directorate and the required ministries. Perhaps that is the key to solving this problem, but this issue of public-private partnership should also be considered. The legislator has been defined as reforming inspection supervision and a significant newspaper is that part of the inspection work is entrusted to local self-government, primarily in the part of the trade that is conducted outside the sales facility, such as kiosks, gigs, which is certainly good. It's basically a picture, an outside picture of the work of local self-government. We are witnesses that often our citizens, looking at this kind of problem on our streets, do not understand the competences of local self-government or republican authorities, and they are often under the same roof of local self-government and are putting some pressure on local self-government to solve these problems. In this way, and by decentralising the supervision of local self-government, they will get the authority in that part, and hopefully, despite their trust, and the necessary financial resources and logistics support that this inspection supervision fully and functioning. When it comes to control, I would like to point out another practical problem, which we are often witnessing, and I also several times, and it is also related to Article 44. The bill, which defines sales incentives, therefore, sells goods and services with certain discounts, accompanying gifts and some other types of incentives. There is also, as provided for in Article 44(3), where the supply of such trade incentives is prohibited, therefore, in conditions where the necessary quantity or method of supply of goods or services with these incentives is not provided, and which clearly shows that in this situation the trader indicates that he purchases some other goods at much higher prices, which certainly produces a bad impression of customers and, of course, those who use these provisions in the right way lead to an unfavourable position and shows a bad image. I think it really should be market inspection to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42864	Used 12 minutes and 10 seconds of MP time. The word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42865	Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, therefore, this bill or future new law on trade should be one of the most important economic laws and one of those laws that should regulate market relations. In fact, we have heard several times, and we know that we who understand ourselves a little bit in this area, that is that in force are three rather outdated laws, which regulate relations on the market, including inspection supervision, etc., and the law that deals specifically with trade is even from 1993. So it's a 17-year-old law, and maybe it's one of the few, that's one of the few system laws that hasn't undergone any changes or additions in those 17 years, because we all know that the area of trade has changed very much in those 17 years, there are some new types of trade, ways, new formats, institutions, etc. For example, e-commerce 17 years ago did not exist in the world or Serbia. We, however, have a special law that regulates the area in more detail. I think there will also be a need to make changes and complements soon, because people, or traders and companies that participate or perform electronic trade already have a lot of objections and problems in practice. For example, 17 years ago, at least in Serbia, there was no auction and stock market development, so we have a whole set of different forms and types of trade, and that the laws did not edit them in any way. So, the DSS absolutely believes that it is necessary to pass a new law on trade, and we also know that traders, as well as citizens, are looking forward to it with impatience and consumer protection laws, for example the law on commodity reserves. I know there are some plans, there are public debates. When it comes to the Consumer Protection Act, the public debate has been going on for a long time, so I think the law should be in the process soon and adopted. So, as I said, we absolutely support the adoption of a new law, however, we believe that this law could have been much better, that many solutions or attempts to resolve generals and that you have members who are very declarative or that you have a whole series of members and obligations imposed on road users without any penalties or penalties provided for. The inspection surveillance has not been defined at all in some occurrences, so I'm free to say that the law is general and declarative. The DSS has submitted about 35 amendments. Some of them are essential, some of them aren't, so you'll take a look at it, and maybe we'll contribute to the quality of this law with our amendments. I also need to illustrate a few members who are declarative. I'm talking about part two, where the principles of trade are listed. Here we have seven principles: the principle of free trade, the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination, the principle of the single market, the principle of honesty, the principle of stability, etc. I was pretty confused when I read these principles, and I thought it was some unwritten rule or custom that the laws on trade contained such principles, so I looked at the laws on trade in the region and I didn't find them in their laws of this kind. For example, the principle of honesty states: traders are obliged to act fairly in a fair competition, in a way that is not aimed at harming other traders, i.e. buyers, as well as public interest, and in line with business morality and good business practices. Please, this would be very good if in this way you could secure a fair market game, but you can't. You can't say that you expect them to, to tell the merchants that they're obliged to act fairly in a game of competition and then expect it to be. It would be the same if in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, for example, you said that students are obliged to master every teaching unit in biology and that you expect it to be so. What can ensure a fair competition is good, clear, precise legal regulations. It's a prerequisite or one of the conditions. The second condition is that all participants in this competition respect these regulations, to the last letter, that there are no privileged traders, that they try to prevent corruption and that surveillance and inspection are carried out in detail as necessary. That is the only way to really secure a fair market game, not by prescribing the principle of honesty. It's attached to this. In Chapter VII, that head bears the title – An unfair competition, and then that Article 50 says – the ban on unfair competition again refers to our wanting to be a fair competition, but it can't be this way. It says – an unfair competition is forbidden and that traders who suffer damage due to the sale of an unfair competition have the right to compensation and damage. I know it's every case for itself. So if the inspection or the ministry, it doesn't even say who's supposed to find it, they find different kinds of damage and that it's the subject of litigation. However, you could have in the criminal provisions that the initial offence that determines either the inspection or the ministry, and said that this and that market participant participated unfairly, that there was some basic penalty. This doesn't mean anything, nor will any of the participants consider this. Another principle that illustrates how extensive this law is in many members is that we also have some members that are absolutely unnecessary. Let's say, the principle of co-operation, that's Article 10. So he says, "In market surveillance matters, all competent state authorities and public authorities are obliged to cooperate with each other." I guess that's what that means. It seems to me that this is the first bill of law where we have such a single member, where it is said that all public authorities and public officials, not some organisations that are outside that circle, are obliged to cooperate. I guess that means that the state authorities involved in this area are cooperating with each other. Or, if they don't cooperate, it's not good at all. It's not good for the ministry, nor for the trade, and it's certainly not good for the citizens. When we talk in detail, I said we have 35 amendments, so we'll talk about all the members individually. Now I don't have enough time to look back at everything, but I'm going to say a few things, let's say, that's the head of VI and says, "Improvement of trade," and there are three members talking about the Center for Trade Development. Article 47 speaks of the ministry, or government, as it intends to set up a trade development centre. Article 48 again speaks about the exchange of data between different bodies or institutions and Article 49 is about the development of an integrated system. We did, and we have a lot of bill proposals where the bill promotes the establishment of an agency for a particular area. I don't belong to those MPs who don't think agencies are necessary, some are very necessary and have a lot of work to do. There are agencies that are not needed and that, if someone asked you, even people who are employed, what you're actually doing, they wouldn't know how to tell you. You say here – the mall for the development of trade, you don't say – the agency for the development of trade. Okay, but in the final position, you say that the establishment and operation of the centre are subject to rules governing public agencies, and the rights of the founder of the centre are done by the government. So it's not called an agency, but it is an agency. All these jobs you're predicting will be done at that center are really significant. However, it seems to me that many of these jobs are already being done by certain people in certain sectors and departments of the Ministry of Trade, so it is absolutely unnecessary what you are proposing to us, the establishment of a new centre, or agency. For example, this future centre should collect data and monitor market developments in the Republic of Serbia and in certain sectors of trade or prepare a professional basis for the making of rules in the area of transport of goods and services. A little bit of this formulation has been complicated, and in fact, that means that this future centre will be preparing future new legal proposals or sublegal acts, etc. I see one of the Ministry's people is turning their heads, but "preparing a professional basis for making regulations", if I don't interpret it well, then you'll tell me. However, again as I stated, so, collects data, analyzes etc. Don't tell me that no sector or anyone at the Department of Trade is doing this right now. If it doesn't work, then it's not good. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that when it comes to saving, it has to be reduced to the administration, that people are fired because they're declared excess in a particular state body or institution. I really don't think there should be an increase in the number of employees and there's no need because this can be done and should be carried out by the Ministry. Otherwise, you have these different amendments, from having MPs suggest that, for example, these members be deleted completely. The amendment I signed, with a colleague from the DSS, just replaces the word "centre" in the word "minister." If you think that these are very important jobs for the development of trade in Serbia, it should and how it exists, but that you do so by your own internal organization or by making a new department or sector or by assigning some new jobs to already existing sectors. Now I'm going to quote, Minister, one of your statements from March 28, 2010. It is true that traders and all stakeholders in the transport of goods and services in Serbia need a new law, however, they have a much bigger problem, and this is a constant decline in transport on the market, both goods and services. Since the beginning of 2009, the trend has continued. So a much bigger problem for them is this decline in traffic right now than that, for example, there is no new law. You said on March 28th that the biggest problem of the domestic market is a small demand, low purchasing power and a constant fear of citizens if they will preserve their jobs and will manage to cover their costs and provide their family with a decent existence. And that one of the government's main policy objectives, you said this two months ago, for this year, is the preservation of citizens' purchasing power at as high levels as possible. So you've identified that problem, too. Now we hear and know that this government is trying to preserve the purchasing power of citizens. I would remind you, for example, that just two years ago, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, who was then a candidate for Prime Minister, cited four goals in terms of economy or economy. It's a dynamic growth in the economy, employment growth. And in the campaign, by all parties now making up the majority or coalition that the government is talking about opening jobs and there will be at least 200,000 new jobs. Now there is no more, but you say in your statement, and rich citizens know very well that they are afraid of the jobs they have, and they are afraid of their incomes and if they don't lose their jobs, because those receipts are getting smaller and smaller. Now that we're talking about trade, you know what people call it when someone promises you something, so it's not like that, it can be "a promise of crazy joy," but it's called "the fog dealers". So when someone promises something and then there's nothing. So open up that box and that gift, and there's no fog in it, so you could take this opportunity and in Article 2 for citizens, warn them to know, that it's nice in Article 2 where the meanings of certain concepts were stated, but there was still a need to explain what a fog dealer is and what "selling fog" means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42866	18 minutes of MP time used. Do any of the presidents, authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42867	He's always carrying his burden. That we need one law that needs to be arranged, it certainly is necessary, but to be a complete law, preferably to regulate as many individual issues in this area as possible. To be specific. They can't export and import to another ministry, and inside trade to another ministry. It has to be united, the right thing to do. Another thing, and someone would have to understand, this law should prevent eight million people from breaking the law. Each of us is breaking this law because we're reporting as consumers and we want to buy as cheap as possible, but sometimes one of us shows up as a seller, so he wants to sell as much as possible. It's a natural state, the law only needs to arrange how much it can be tolerable, for the environment to be defined, for the rules to be respected. Everyone shows up as sellers and as buyers, and then there's a big problem. The state is obliged to provide every citizen, every resident with the same conditions. If the same conditions are in terms of education, health care, they are also in terms of supply. Now we have this big problem that this dispersion is not adequate. I don't want to deal with these things that apply to modern forms of trade, it must inevitably be accepted, it's illusory to talk, as the computer has become part of our reality, as the car has become part of our reality, so are part of our reality and megamarkets and all the other forms of trade, and that electronic trade and all this other stuff that follows. It doesn't take a lot of power to make sure that we don't need to or shouldn't. However, this law must also regulate something that is unfortunately not in the bill. We have to have some guarantees for our balance sheet. Unfortunately, it's not with the Ministry of Trade, it's scattered across different ministries, depending on activity, products or services. Then there are really big problems. That it is theoretically possible and practically feasible that what can be deficit goods at the end of the year, is exported at the beginning of the year, and is later imported. I'm a great advocate to define myself and what should be the Stock Reserve Directorate. If it should be a corrective factor for market stability, then it must primarily trade with such goods, not raw materials. If it is goods other than raw materials, then that directorate must be within the Ministry of Trade, it cannot be a free shooter, because the Ministry of Trade should ensure stability, provided monetary policy is normal. If monetary policy plays its story with a course, etc., you two million inspectors, nothing helps, it's familiar. In this sense, the centre is also necessary, but it must not be an agency but a sector within the ministry. Modern technologies today allow not only networking but absolutely recording to carry out analytical studies, to go to encounter problems, but not to do some god-awful control. I have to say that in that strategy that was made, it's worked out a long time ago, and there have been some strategies, since our social trade has been destroyed, we've seen who bought those facilities later, certainly we need facilities for a modern trade, to reach those standards, regardless of which side these standards come from, per capita head, square meters, etc. I think all of this should be in the Department of Trade, not in some independent institution, even if it's called by a public service agency, where it's supposed to have three or four entrusted state affairs. Of course, the third segment is that painful issue of the work of the inspection bodies. This country did not find a formula, when I say the state does not mean the current government, but I also think of the previous, previous, previous and future and future ones. Why? Do we need to have one inspection within the inspection bodies to control everything, not just the transport of goods and services, but what about the affairs of sanitary inspection, as regards the affairs of agriculture, veterinary, etc.? Do we need a state inspection body? That was not the case because one inspection body, even if it was a ministry, would rise up with a large amount of these repressive measures, so it would affect everyone else. However, this second form of organisation, where each ministry in the framework of inspection affairs has its own inspection, also shows its shortcomings. Then comes the problem of people and the determination to obey the law. I think it's a good thing that market inspection now comes out of a kind of business and becomes a very real market inspection, is on its way to becoming a real market inspection that will control both quality, assorted, prices, facilities, conditions, environments, etc., and increasingly to control what originally needs to be in the jurisdiction of the tax authorities. We've submitted 30 amendments, I'm sure 20 and something you can freely accept, because they're just fixing this text of the law. You're probably not ready to accept these amendments relating to this center and these other, I suppose, for you, very important things. But I think this capillary organization of state and para-state authorities has been shown very badly in practice. What do you have from the tobacco agency, what do you have from these other agencies? You've got nothing. I expected that in this law you would unite and protect consumers, and prevent unfair competition and prices. It is good that at least in one member of the price you found that the price for stability is not only the NBS, because some of us here told us – everything depends on the NBS. And where's the government's economic policy? We have submitted a large number of amendments which are primarily intended to, if the method of education is defined by some act, it must not be a sublegal act. In that sense, you now have several, about 12 areas where sublaws are educated in prices, and there is even one, I have to say a schizophrenic situation, where the price of an oil derivative is educated from the point of view of excise duties and taxes, so that serves as a basis for defining prices. This could all be placed in this law and perhaps even this law prescribes a way of education of the prices that are under the control of the state, regardless of the control regime. So the previous consent, the principle agreement or the definition of the price itself, could all have entered into this law and that this law would unite everything. Of course, you couldn't resist pressure and give a mild advantage to something that the EU is compared to real life in Serbia. We have tried several amendments and we have tried to correct it, and for a few amendments, I am sure that you will accept them because it is some of the writing failures, starting with the fact that you dropped the name of the importer in the declaration as a mandatory part of the name. But it's defined by other regulations. I'm saying this all because you realize that all the amendments have been submitted to improve this text, to be acceptable. But that huge shortage -- consumer protection, unfair competition, stock reserves, the organisation of all possible inside the ministry, according to us, it had to enter into this bill and be complete because it should be, as you say now, roofing for everything called goods and services traffic. And when you turn around, there's traffic all around us. They're all merchants in this country. Not because it's Serbia, but because every action in itself involves trade. Of course, we also have a trade mandate in the Assembly, but it's not the subject of this law, it's the subject of some other law, and Mrs. Bossa is going to discuss it with her cousin. But let's get back to this. I've also read the strategy and it is a pretty big document. In the first part is good analysts, where the existing situation is expressed and this bill is the result of the strategy. The strategy is a software document based on which this law is done and it's perfectly normal. However, I don't think it's predetermined and needs to be complete with these areas, and then it would really be a complete law. Some things really cannot be solved by this law, like this strategic question of the future appearance of all inspection bodies. There's room to think about building one inspection body at the state level. Because, look, you're facing this problem at the Ministry every day. When a competent inspector comes to a sales facility, carries out some control, he may notice that the problem is not only a recording problem but even tax evasion. There's already a way of stopping his jurisdiction, there's another team coming in, whether she wants to or not. Secondly, in the process of what you call decentralisation, it is very important that the first-degree organs are in the field. If the inspection bodies are first-degree bodies, they should have that dispersion on their entire territory. Next, there's only one problem left. I'm not sure that you've chosen a good path in a strategy to address the issue of full supply of the market from the point of view of the location. We have really those environments where the population moved out. We have a situation where they've been punished twice. Of course, it's not the greatest lack of this law, so you don't get me wrong. But we have one situation where whoever is punished and lives in a village and needs 30 km to get to the first sale facility, is punished by that location, by the conditions of life, and is punished by the fact that he buys and pays goods more expensive than he who is able to enter one of these megamarkets where, at dumping prices, he can buy that same product. I think your commitment to fill those gaps through small and medium-sized enterprises will not bring any greater results, on the contrary, it may happen, but the question of price will not be addressed in an adequate way and to the satisfaction of consumers. This is because in their calculations they will insert transport costs, purchase costs, etc. Because, in the end, in the store, everything pays for the end consumer. Speaking of consumers, with two amendments, we have tried to correct something that has been missed, there is a problem with the moment what is the customer and what is the consumer. We have dropped one amendment to Article 2(8). The expert assessor simply stands artificially in this bill, there is only in Article 2 of point 8) and is nowhere in this text of the law. I'm getting the impression that that's what's left of it. I think you can assess what you wanted with that. I don't see any connection with any of the other members of this law. I guess it kind of fell in. These are our main objections, or I'd rather say our suggestions on what needs to be solved. I agree with those things in the strategy, nothing without competition. Competition can solve a lot of things, but it doesn't solve everything. No matter how much effort they make, there will always be illicit trade, and there will always be more trafficking if the taxes and other taxes that are followed by some goods are greater. So if you're thinking about raising the VAT from 18% to 20 percent, you immediately increased the illegal trade by a few percent. Why? Because the benefit is far greater. This law cannot solve the problem of illegal trade. That's what I have to tell you - it can't. The police are also needed. If something leaves customs and comes into our house, the story's over. So is it a Danube with some tanks, is it a parking lot on the border crossing, if the first one in a chain blinked, missed, you can chase here, do whatever you want, there's no such thing as real life, or paper, but they're really showing up big money. Be careful with the opening of the space for new sales chains, as it may be potentially a major danger, as it did with the banking system. Our entire banking system is almost left to foreigners. You see for yourself, there used to be a saying in America – in addition to death it is certain to pay taxes. There is a supplement in Serbia – a banking commission must also be paid. Everyone pays a banking commission. Because of this banking commission, and not only that, these things happen, 400-500m euros each year, foreign banks earn profits on this poor, narrowed market. That can happen in this traffic, too. I would remind you -- a few years ago, Mr. Petar Jojic, from this pay phone or in that other building there repeatedly pointed to some of the things that are happening, so he kept talking about this company, "Pevec", because whenever he went from Panchev to Belgrade, he saw that "Pevec" being made. So he talked, talked... It's "The Pevec." You heard. Our Pera Jojic warned on time. Some others will say – he took the risk, which we care about, the state is not damaged, etc., but I don't think that's the way to look at it. We have not submitted an amendment to that member who speaks about the impact study on the structure of the market, not because we consider it an ideal solution, but for the simple reason that everything that is done requires some feasibility study or to use those terms 20 years ago – social economic justification, and even in a system where the dominant form of private property is organised private activities. If you look at these cities of ours, in those gauges that were 20 and a few years ago, then I need to draw attention to you that urbanists were also taking care of the schedule of shops, schools, kindergartens and other things at the time. Simply, there is a standard per capita, per square metre of residential area, what is needed to ensure that decent life can be organised in a given space, not only in terms of kindergarten, health care, but also in supply. Are we going to get a situation where a retail facility supplies 80 consumers I don't know, there are some challenges. Be careful about what you have announced, encouraging our trade leaders to spread in our area because it is reportedly able to improve our exports. This is very problematic because domestic trade leaders are masters, managers and founders of organised crime. Organized crime, Mrs. Comic, just another sentence, took place in 1992 thanks to observers, who in 1992 allowed only some to import and export goods, and they have so strengthened that today they have become inevitable tycoons and large financiers. Be careful here, as far away from them as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42868	The time of the authorized representative has been used. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic and MP Zoran Ostojic were reported. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, since she was reported earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42869	I speak as an authorised representative, and I thank my colleague Stojić for giving me the opportunity to speak before him. I'm taking the opportunity to ask us a few questions about the trade law debate as a society. Is the ideology of the modern free market completely fair, ideal, does it leave any mistakes, does it give us any tasks that we need to correct? I can bring that question down to one thing – what are you doing on Sundays? Do you take your children by the hand on Sundays or go to visit your grandparents, or do you go to some of the shopping chains to buy what you need and what you don't need? I'm saying this as a woman who runs her household, has a family, never stopped worrying about it, and I'm afraid in this era of the global free market, we allowed this supposed free market to belong not only to the present, but also to the future. In light of the debate on this Law on Trade, I would like to reiterate Francis Fukuyama's claim that apparently history has ended and that the relations of offers and requests are those that determine whether we are human beings, whether our social ties are turned into market transactions. Think about who you're with, who you're going to have coffee with, what you expect from these people or what they expect from you. Do we have the right to talk only about imposed topics that say that we should ensure in trade the most fair conditions of trade, competition protection, consumer availability, consumer protection, or should we ask ourselves whether buying, perhaps unnecessary products, we have some crumbs called pleasure, while some others, which impose propaganda on us, very aggressively, allow us to earn much, much more. Since I don't have reliable data on how much they make here from the store, I can give a known example that the richest man in Mexico has more money than 17 million of his poorest countrymen. I can give you information, which I will not exactly state for our country, that the annual war on the debt of many countries, and perhaps ours, is much more than investment, what we record in the budget, in health, education, or what we all declare. Are we, as a country, proof that the most investment was made in shopping malls and that, by that, we meant foreign direct investment, but these were actually acquisitions, i.e. the sale of shares of commercial enterprises? Why am I talking about all this? I'm talking about losing the society's basic goal. In order for someone to be a consumer and talk about trade, they must first of all be a producer so that some of our industry's products can be found on shelves in these shops and there should be people working in some of the best industrial, but they can also be serviced with less work, to earn wages so that they can go shopping for what they need. We will agree that the most valuable things called righteousness, wisdom and love cannot be found in any trade chain anywhere in the world. We will look for this in some other places, if we do not force as many other countries as possible to buy what is necessary, but even more unnecessary. It's up to us to have a similar order, and this is a pretty good law on trade, let's do something more serious in lawmaking that will do a development strategy, or production. I can ask you, as a member of the government, not to put you on a mission, but to ask you to put it in as one of your priorities. But you're like a trade minister in an opportunity to get your advertising campaigns and actions to work on buying a car doesn't mean buying in our conditions of auditions, Mercedes, BMWs, and in some better countries Ferraris, but to return useful value because that's proof that we're doing some work, because by buying tangible things, like BMWs, audiences, Ferraris and Armani suits, a man can never buy what he doesn't actually have, and I said just now, love, wisdom and kindness. We as a state, when we talk about the values we want to promote, we have a lot of work to do here. We, as MPs, can contribute to that. In a further story of concrete remarks, not numerous – because it is really from what you came out with the initial law before the public debate, not public hearing, which we talked about yesterday, but as you said in public debate, from one large and quite observable law, you have come to a very understandable law, which should nevertheless respect a number of amendments to the MPs and to provide legislation that will allow us to edit the trade in the best possible way possible – I will go first of all from the basic remarks that I cannot forget. I will start with Article 11, where I ask you to bear in mind that at point 1) of the dispute, we do not have to ask for all farmers to have registration and that their turnover is limited only because they have to be subject to registration. You know perfectly well, according to the law that regulates this area, that those registered for agricultural activity are registered precisely because of you making certain subsidies. This would mean that in transport under these conditions, those who produce corn and similar cultures, wheat and the like can be found. What about those who produce fruit and vegetables in a much smaller volume and can, could, without registration, be found as sellers under this law of trade and show these small small agricultural producers that we are also in favour of them and that you respect such an amendment intervention. Our declarative pledges that you see, very skillfully, taken over as government from what SNS MPs often say as employment, as export-oriented sectors, as agriculture, find places in these concrete legal solutions. Many here have often commented on what trading formats are. I will not repeat Article 15, its basic solution from the law, but I must make a remark to you that you have forgotten that the trading formats are a small-format store – self-services, kiosks and shops. You haven't even listed them in Article 2 through definitions, and they're not here as trading formats, where you explain that as organisational and technical forms, trade can be done. My next concrete remark is that there is a little off-sales store, where you explain the medical trade in Article 20, is causing little doubt for all of us who are not directly in that matter and that it is not well enough to explain what this ambulatory store is and that the term itself bears entirely the wrong associations. I suggest that you go through the board or you intervene yourself by explaining that this is the type of store that is performed unbound for certain business premises, such as a shopping cart, on railway, bus stations, beaches or the like. So if you already have a law that deserves a good grade, unlike many, why don't you have a more precise definition. When we talk about trading conditions, I'm talking about Article 30, you've quite clearly defined it, but in the position of the 3rd member, where it's said that the persons of attitude 1, meaning who can have the property of the trader, is obliged to possess evidence of the property of traders in their sales facility outside the sales facility, i.e. the fulfilment of the terms of Article 2 of this article. Now, if I were to tell you that in this attitude of 3 for the other individuals in terms of sales, someone once praised it as the possibility given by this law, in terms of selling their own second-hand items, handicrafts, art, craftsmanship products, other than agricultural and food products, you don't define what evidence these traders should have. I believe it's a technical failure. I'm asking you to correct it, or it's possible to just say that these evidence applies to the others, other than the merchants that I've listed here, and that's an amendment intervention where you're going to say that those of Article 11 paragraph 12 of the Law are exempt. Don't mind me putting out details like this precisely, but I really want to be of use. I expect you to delete article 39. This is the biggest remark I have on this bill for me. And it's not a detail, it's a matter of principled nature. In article 39, you define the marks of the special characteristics of goods and services and you say that, literally, those who have special properties to get it, I will conditionally say, certifications, can actually have marks of some recognised standards. People, don't lie to yourself, with these views, first of all, it's not the law on trade, it's the law on consumer protection. This can't just be in the law of trade, and we know perfectly well that this mark gets the one who pays. Not one who, according to the criteria and conditions, actually secures this particular feature, but one who is willing to pay such a special mark, will also get, how much he pays officially, how much he pays off the record, let those who have, and there are many who have a bad experience. I have to tell you something that has so far been an example of bad practice, I'm talking about the city I come from, where traders are asked to be, for example, a member of the 42nd regularises, a visible mark of the prominence of a business name, or a name or a shortened business name. You can see the adjective. How does this — visibly, evaluate? The discretionary right of those who come to judge it. Do you know how to punish it? A lot at this time of crisis. The expression – for a time there was a hit inspection in Novi Sad, which visited small kiosks and shops and always had a remark that it was not visible enough. Please, either discard it – visiblely, or accurately define the case size, mark-up mode or mark to read it. Article 47, Center for Trade Development. There's a big problem with what's called the Center for Trade Development, because if it happened and it happens that many of these defined attitudes and members of the law are defined so they can't say completely inaccurately, but not precisely enough to ask for the opinion that these views could be followed, then traders, people who deal with this job, meet each of the state officials, inspectors and authorities that come into control, has their own understanding of what, for example, marks, the management of the KEP book with VAT or without VAT. Do you believe that there were such spaces, such cases where space was left for different interpretations? Do you know what's going on? The answer requested by the Ministry of Trade is never obtained either with a delay of two years, but the fine is paid immediately and amounts to traders from Novi Sad 240,000 dinars. So it's for whoever's keeping the KEP book wrong. You, as Minister, have the right and obligation to, in the name of the Ministry you run and the law that you represent here for all inaccuracies, bring instructions and a rule that will make it impossible for a judge's confidence, so conditionally express myself. This is not the director of the literary work that says, I have the right to understand the literary work in my own way and to set up a play. It's not "slow mousse" where we can see if the inspector is right or not, and it produces concrete consequences on the work of someone who's dealing with the trade this difficult time. I'm not one of those who says, the ministry needs to be asked, not the minister, because responsibility and law must be personalized. The Ministry is not an unnamed ship, not a government, not a mark on Nemina, not the address you're sitting on. The Ministry is you and your associates, the set of laws you're working with, the basis of which someone has to live and edit their daily business. Take that responsibility, you have it and you arrange all the underdefined things so people don't meet with, for example, the practice of asking them to have the price of cigarettes formed by boxing, and he sells cigarettes per piece in the kiosk, and then some smart, hot inspector finds himself right to punish someone for otherwise leading the price of cigarettes. This is a life in which they are willing to confirm to you the damaged that there are equal ones who are more equal and that those who do this work, when they are in an association where they can share experiences, ideas and come up with the best solutions, are ready, as they were with you in exchange for ideas when we were doing this law to help you edit this law in the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42870	Eighteen minutes of Parliament time was used. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42871	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected a law that will have some newspapers, some major changes and that will mean more to Serbia in trade. Seeing this law, the only thing that changes is that the minister decides on these hypermarkets of squares over two thousand square meters, which will not change anything in particular and affect Serbian trade. I was expecting after your great experience, Mr. Minister, because you've been the first man in Serbian trade for nine years. For three years, you have been Minister of Trade in the Government of Zoran Djindjic, three years president of the Chamber of Commerce and are now the minister of this term for the third year. So you are a man who is extremely responsible for Serbian trade, for the situation in Serbia that has arisen, for Serbian products, for so much Serbian export problem and so much for forcing Serbian imports. You couldn't break the import lobby. The import lobby literally in Serbia does what it wants. Now that you look at the hypermarkets, when you go in and you see, a man feels uncomfortable. We don't have those state warehouses, we don't have the ability to store and when she has a good birth, like she did last year. We had an apple to buy three dinars and nobody wanted it. Right now in hypermarkets, it's 40, 50, 60 dinars, 35 dinars the cheapest. What's going on here? Who's making money here? Why and when she gives birth to us, we don't know how to use it and take it out? Does that import lobby have any control? Also, the export lobby literally does what it wants. Recently when we heard that meat imported from Hungary, pig meat after so many years, we in Serbia are extremely disappointed. When meat is imported from Argentina, chicken imports from Brazil, imports of pork from Hungary, it completely destroyed the livestock fund in Serbia. We don't have it anymore. It takes years to rebuild it. For the past ten years, he's completely destroyed. We are now talking about a mutual agreement with the EU, and what do we have to take out? Corn and wheat for 12 dinars in ransom, where there's no profit at all? Well, that's what everyone will buy if you offer on the market so cheaply, and we boast - the biggest exporters in agriculture, and in fact we sell corn and wheat. What about the others? What does Europe buy from us? Malin, mushrooms, cherries to indignation when she gives birth and nothing else. What about the large exporters from Serbia? Who will cover this much imports that are currently present in Serbia? Enter the hypermarkets you're talking about and now you're going to give permission to, where you want to fence that you should, to God's sake, study the conditions, as you say here, to make it, can it be installed in the city center or in the narrow area of the city center? They're already all set up where it's the most important. Who would be smart enough to allow in the prime area of Belgrade, where old and New Belgrade are joined, at the mouth to create a hypermarket? Was that the most necessary thing in that place, in that zone? You were, Mr. Minister, I repeat, in this century the main man of the trade. You ran the Chamber and ran the store all the time. You must have made up your mind either from one position or another. Your party was in power and in Belgrade. Who else is normal in the heart of Belgrade, in the core, in the city center, makes such a hypermarket, which looks like some twisted giant box that we go through, where thousands of people are collected and traded? Now that you've entered that one hypermarket and looked at it: it's all foreign goods. Where are the Serbian products? Now that you look after selling Soko Sturka to Croats, after selling many companies to Croats, Croatian businessmen are the biggest exporters from Serbia, not Serbian businessmen. Serbian businessmen have nothing to export. Croatian businessmen are Serbia's largest exporters. Do you know that? You must know, of course. Did the government have the opportunity to make a statement about the sale of important processors such as Soko Sturk and large exporters? We've completely destroyed the exporters, we're importing the juices. Is it possible that ten years can't solve the question of "Buda", "Serbian women" and many Serbian exporters? Is it possible now that Serbia is importing chips and we were the biggest exporters? Was it normal for some of the biggest chippers in Chačka, who worked 90 percent of the exports for the Russian market, to ruin the sale by some man who was arrested a few days later and the issue was not resolved? Why doesn't he get rid of it? Where are potato manufacturers going to place their products? Who's gonna buy them out? Where are they going to sell them? Therefore, we have no exports, and we were large exporters of agricultural products primarily. Meat. I remember Stoker, I don't know if you remember. By the time you arrived, it was the largest meat exporter in Southeast Europe. Thousands of shelters stand empty in Serbia. Thousands of livestock farms, chickens farms, etc. It's empty. Either the property issue is not resolved, or the privatisation is ruined, mutilated, bought by someone, etc. It's for sale, Maxie. Says Miskovic decided to sell "Maxie" to the Belgians. That's where 20,000 people work. Our entire store, the monopoly, is based on that system. Do you have the government's position on that? Who are these people who are going in tomorrow to buy Maxie and whose products are they going to throw in? Is there going to be new imports again, and are we going to eat everything here without certification, unquality, etc.? You have seen, in these new laws, where we are calling for the EU, we have completely destroyed the Serbian market, which was the basis for providing real healthy food to Serbian citizens. They've completely destroyed everything. Why did we destroy it? We destroyed it because we wanted to be modern, modern, to bring some laws to which no one even forced us to. We recently had Minister Dinkic in Koseric, opening the alcohol distillery, and a few kilometers from there there is a huge one, which stands empty and does not work. Why isn't it working? In Osecina, it also stands empty on the other side and does not work, nor does it work. We had a factory of extraordinary forest products. Destroyed it. Some came, bought it, disarmed the equipment, exported it, and shut down the factory that's now standing like an autistic town. No one asks - is there anyone responsible in Serbia for what happened like this? We also destroyed the coolers, some Victoria group showed up, they pick up everyone who's, I don't know, but believe me, they put it all out and go. Is it their goal to go in and shut it down during privatisation and to put a lock or to let it into operation and to produce? Therefore, we have no exports and this is Serbia's big problem today. Big exporters, like Petolite, Magnochroma, have failed. Importers, the automotive industry, we have invested billions in the program "Fiata", it is said – no more cars, everyone will fall to their knees, come "Fiat", 200,000 cars in 2010 will produce, of which a huge amount goes to the Russian market. What's with the project, Mr. Minister? There's nothing. There are still other cars present here, let's take the Mercedes, the Opel, of course the Audi, etc. There's no program for Fiat, he didn't come back to life. All the cooperatives have failed. Now the major hit-Jura has built a company. Every day we spin – 900 workers are employed, and 400, 100 times I heard in the news – Dinkic solved in Nis, which destroyed the Electronic Industry, destroyed the Machine Industry, destroyed Nis as a city of machine industry, but now a huge giant of 400 employees will come, which we will pay one employee of 10,000 euros, to stimulate from the budget. Why didn't we stimulate the white technique in "Freedom" Chuck? It only took a little bit to work and be giant, because she was a pioneer in white technology and the largest exporter of white techniques in Southeast Europe. Because we paid Gornja to come in here and build a new factory and we stimulate four and a half thousand euros per employee of Burning. Only 2,000 euros each since we gave "Freedom", it would have been a giant, domestic product, completely and pioneered in white technology in Serbia. When "Freedom" did the white technique "burning" didn't know about the white technique. We just -- let it come from the side, and that's where we're going to stimulate, lady, and this is where we're going to completely destroy our own homework. We don't give them anything. It's been said and you've spoken a hundred times, we encourage exports, we buy domestic, the Development Fund is directed towards exporters, exporters treasure to you, here's the entire Development Fund facing you. And what happened? Now we hear that in the Development Fund, people were arrested, that it was a party job, that party people held the entire Development Fund and had it right. All this applies and this is all about trade, because we don't have good laws to protect, ministers, domestic markets, like all countries do. Serbia has become an avalanche. To her husbands to bring in the goods whoever they want. Do you know how much meat has been thrown across Kosovo into Serbia, how many tons of meat? Why do you think Albanians come and vote for the president of the municipality of Draskovic in Medvedja? I was there at the campaign. They come by bus to vote and report the place of residence. He's a valve for importing everything and everything. He was covered by Covic, you all covered for him, and you all helped him win there, because he was everyone's. Whoever's in power, he's his, and he's mostly Albanian, because he's just pushing through it. I go into one forest and I see a huge road made and I ask – people, what's a asphalt road doing in the woods like this? He says -- shut up, there's the biggest traffic. Go to Medvedje sometime and see where there is no living soul, you will see that Covic once made a good asphalt road, for God's sake, developed a bear, and there is only a meat strike and a very suspicious quality. That's why we're the first to have cancer, leukemia in Europe, etc. Why do our young people get sick? Unquality food. I expected you to protect your domestic products with laws and to really be the wing of Serbian trade – let's buy our own home, ours is the best. Let's buy some homemade chicken. Is that Brazil thing gonna get better? What does it look like? Look what's being imported and who's importing. These hypermarkets, which you all stand for and play for, have been built in every city downtown, and now there's no need for you not to let them come to the competition, but you're still strengthening them. The mouse entered wherever he needed, in every big city he's in the city center, or "Tempo" or "Maxie" or something else. And now he's got the C Markets. Does that monopoly at the store bother you as a trade minister? Who managed to make such a monopoly at the store and tie up the monopolies? See how many liters of milk are in the hypermarket, and look at the purchase of 18 dinars. What makes you so different? How did such a difference happen? Think about it and make a law that will mean a lot to Serbia and where it will encourage Serbian exports, where it will drastically reduce imports, at least imports of agricultural products, what we have always had and what we have always been proud of. Now we're importing everything. Look at the percentage of imports. Croatians sell more food products with us than we sell our own. We don't have one of our own. We closed all the milkers, we closed everything, our processors, we closed the juices. I repeat, the Buddha, the Serbian, the forest products, the factory in Vladica's Han, we've closed everything and we don't have them anymore. Now we depend much on the outside. That is why we expected the laws on trade in protection of the Serbian market to help Serbia. However, nothing special will be done. Imports will continue to be meat, and pears, and apples and dried plums. Do you know we're importing dried plums, and we had the biggest lineage last year, because we don't know what to do with them? We don't have processors. Did you know that we didn't have a processor last year that meets the European criteria in the production of dried plums, none? Why didn't the Development Fund stimulate that? It was said, there were projects and they were all rejected. Why? It's a party thing, it's a party fund. You want to move everything to Zaječar now, the whole of Serbia will go to Zaječar. Why? Why Zajchar? I'm listening to the news yesterday. You'll go there for every piece of paper. Mr. Minister, last year I threw three wagons of plums. I was ashamed to go to Vienna to take out the plum export certificates. People can't write to us, post confirmations. Then the Minister of Agriculture banned it, abolished it, but it was already too late, the plum has already failed. This year's weaker generation. Be careful, Serbia is empty. We don't have processors, we don't have state-run warehouses to talk about, we don't have exporters, because the import lobby totally destroys us, and he's here in Belgrade and he imports everything and everything. You're extremely responsible. I repeat, Mr. Minister, this whole new century, these ten years, you've been the boss of Serbian trade in the economy and very responsible for the situation that has arisen. I repeat, block the aviary, do not close the imports, but at least bring the imports closer to export. Let's meet here somewhere, because with this much import and this minor exports, Serbia can't survive. The IMF can't help us either. Here, three billion loans will be spent to stabilise the dinar, and the dinar can only stabilise the export of the Serbian economy, and we don't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42872	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42873	You invite me, Mr. Ilic, to consider this law and the state of trade in Serbia, and I urge you to remember a little bit what you're talking about. The sale of the C Market to the Delta Company took place during the government where you were the minister and whose prime minister was Mr Vojislav Kostunica. The sale of Soko Sturka to Slovenia's Drugs College also took place at the time. A lot of things that are problematic today and why we have a difficult situation in our economy happened at the time, and three and a half years of government where you were a minister. You're talking about why we don't buy Serbian products. I'm asking you what car you're driving, do you drive a local south, a flag, a "punto" or do you drive what suits you better? What suit are you wearing, what watch are you wearing? Unfortunately, the Serbian economy in all sectors and in all segments is not competitive enough and it is natural for a person to choose what is more appropriate to him. Once again, I will repeat one of the basic principles of this law, which is the principle of free trade. I'm convinced that's the way it's supposed to be. You also said - Croatian companies are the biggest exporters of agricultural products. Yes, but Serbian agricultural products. These are investments that work in Serbia today, produce ice cream, mineral water, cement, stone, many other things, but in these factories Serbian workers, they pay taxes to the state of Serbia, when it goes into export, that is Serbia's exports, as is the case with all investors. Anyone who comes to Serbia to engage in capacities, to buy agricultural or other products, to process and to produce, is welcome in Serbia, if it is correct, fair, professional, regardless of whether it is from Croatia, Italy, Germany, Greece or any other country. I agree that there are problems in trade, and I also agree that there is certainly room for this law and through amendments to make it better, but I cannot agree that you transfer everything to other people's responsibility, and that only after two or three years outside of the government did you forget that you were part of, in a long period of time, centrally, when there was no economic crisis, when both the region and Serbia had high growth rates, part of the government that contributed to something that we are seeing as a problem today and we are trying to solve, happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42874	National MP Velimir Ilic is registered in the electronic system. You have no right to a replica, MP. You can consult a stenogram. I listened very carefully to what you said and listened very carefully to the minister’s reply. National MP, the right to replica is described in Article 101(3). The Rules of Procedure, and the decision on whether the replica is given or not, shall be made by the Chairman. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42875	I think Mr. Secretary hurt the Rules of Procedure because he told me some lies. It's true that I was in the government, as a minister, and I was building and doing something else. It is true that you, in parallel with that government, were working together as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Minister, it is true that you have had more influence than I have as Minister of Infrastructure, and it is true that you have been inseparable with the ministers in whose seat you are sitting now. It is true that you have been Minister of Trade for so many years and Miskovic has all been your boss. All those who were with me in government were then, sitting with you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42876	People's MP, please be careful how you address your participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42877	So you hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's true that foreigners pay their profits, but they're small, 15,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42878	National MP, you are required to listen to the explanation and warning of the chairman. You are crossing the limits prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on how to treat other participants in the sitting. You've been given a word based on article 100, and that member obliges you... People's MPs are getting him to understand that. No, he doesn't understand, because you can't leave a session where you're looking for the right to talk about hurting the procedure. To MP Velimir Ilic, I give a warning because of a lack of respect for parliament and a violation of parliament's reputation. National MP Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42879	Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a law that we need as a roof law, because the regulations that regulate this area are old, overcome and need to be changed. In principle, most of this law is correct, introducing new institutes, defining some new ways of trade that did not exist before, and nothing would be disputed. It is only one thing – a member of 45th and what is called a study on the impact of the market structure. Why is that so controversial? This is questionable because, essentially, this member absolutely denies all the values that the Constitution prescribes about free competition and markets. He denies European practice and some sources of rights that apply to Serbia. It's natural that the left populists who make up this government, because this government has called itself a socially responsible government, are trying to interpret this, in further presentation I'm going to explain in detail why this is etatization, and it's natural for right-wing populists, and these are the three speakers who spoke before me, to attack this, because the populists are basically the same, only their goals, or their means, are different. We do not expect your government to be a law that respects liberal and market solutions, because you are simply not a liberal government, nor do we expect from what is sitting around me and what is an opposition to this government to advocate it. But you say you want to join the EU. You can't have a member of this kind with this kind of state control over the market and on investment. That's the goal of achieving it. If you continue to send such laws to the Assembly, I am speaking now not of you personally, but of the Government, such as the so-called law. They encourage construction industries, which is absolutely a law that Lenin and Stalin, in that new economic order, would envy. Not to say it was impossible even in Tito's time. If you offer us such laws, we will begin to seriously question your government's sincere European commitment. So far, we have no doubt, so far, that's ignorance, incompetence, and there's no evil intentions, but let's get into the essence of this law. Mr. Minister, you suggest that for commercial formats whose total sales and storage space crosses 2,000 metres of gross surfaces, an impact study on the structure of the market and that this study, which should be done by scientific research organisations in the field of economy and market research, is accredited in accordance with the regulations of scientific research, is a condition for obtaining a building permit. Plus, the opinion on the study is given by the Centre for Trade Development, and it can give a positive and negative opinion. What does that really mean? That basically means that you, Mr. Minister, are taking over part of the intelligence, for the start of local self-government. So, in Bor, when an investor wants to build a market centre greater than 2,000 squares, he can't get a building permit from the Bor municipality if he doesn't have this study and he doesn't have a positive opinion from the Trade Development Centre that only Mr Krasic is right is essentially the ministry sector. So you're essentially taking over some of the rights of local self-government. Now let's go to the arguments you've made that this is necessary. You are saying in an explanation that this way, by limiting the investor to one additional paper or additional cost, you will ensure that the production of logistics and communication bottlenecks in a given area is prevented, while in other areas and parts of the market, certain trading forms are missing. Do you really think if you don't give a trading entity or an investor a positive opinion that he's building a mall in a location where he wants to build, where he bought the land, that you're going to make him go to the market and do the same thing? There is no incompetence here in this article, in this case it seems to me a dangerous intention to retain the existing monopolies. Here you're saying that this member essentially prevents the potential agreement of trading entities in certain trading areas from achieving monopoly positions. It's absolutely the opposite. You're taking this member's authority to prevent competition. Here's an example. Let's imagine there's a free plot next to the Delta shopping mall in New Belgrade for such a same shopping mall, suppose there's an investor out there who wants to build it. I'm sure he won't get a positive opinion on this study. What's so controversial about raising another one of those if someone takes their money and thinks it can be the Delta competition and who's "Deltu" owns it right now? What's going to happen negatively? The Delta could fail, the one that invested could fail. If anyone fails, what happens? It's a shopping mall, and it's gone, and Delta's stronger, and somebody's coming, and they're gonna buy it. It won't go away. If Miskovic sells "Delta" tomorrow, workers will not go to the street, someone will come, maybe give them better conditions for work and contracts than they have, longer, with more free time, etc. You here, simply amazingly, on the trail of that Dulic's law on fostering the construction industry, you continue and we can't even call it a plan economy anymore, it's really going to the command economy. I hope that MPs G 17 plus, whose mouth has been full of decentralisation lately, will not vote for this law, I am surprised that they voted in the government, because if it comes to decentralisation, which the LDP has been pushing for since the beginning, G 17 has been asking Serbia for small coalition partners, this is directly against it. This law and this member are absolutely directly against free market development and competition. Is it better, Mr. Minister, that people have to buy bread and milk in two places, three places or only one place? Certainly in more places. Here in reason you are essentially saying, and this is true – the law on trade in a conceptual sense, as regards basic legal solutions, is a normative provision of a strategy for the development of trade in the Republic of Serbia. I gave my opinion about this strategy, when it was debated last year on the board. They repeat it briefly, the strategy has 800 pages, we got 200, short for the monopolies in the strategy there are only half the sides. This is true, Mr. Honorable, Lovreta, Professor. There were half a page on monopolies in those 200 pages. It is indeed a consistent development of this strategy in this law, if this member survives. I really don't think it's European, marketable, liberal in this way to affect something only the market can regulate. You say that in European cities there are large shopping malls on the edges of cities. Do you think the German Trade Minister has decided to build on the edge of the city in Hamburg, Korea? No, sir. In these cities in the city center, there is no free country that size. On the other hand, local authorities encourage construction on the periphery. After all, you can't buy in the center of town, developed and serious city, so much crying. On the other hand, there are some interests of investors, lower price of municipal land, higher parking, etc. That's why the market has led to the edges of the cities of that large centre, not the minister or the German, in the federal state, let's say French, because it's a unitary state, similar to ours. This kind of centralization that you take for yourself through this law is absolutely unacceptable, even in this centralised Serbia. I'm just going to give you one example of how much discretion you're taking from yourself by this law. Trade in a sales facility, I read the latest views of some members of the law – Minister in charge of trade affairs, i.e. you today, closer edits the classification of trading formats. That's your first authority. Specific market institutions, concepts and species, last position – the minister is closer to regulating the specific conditions of trade prescribed for specific market institutions. Article 24 – The organisation of other business exhibitions and traditional events is within the jurisdiction of local self-government. This is the only member mentioning local self-government. We are going to Article 28 - the minister is closer to regulations on how to organise and rules on trade in public competition. Article 31 - Minister closer prescribes the minimum technical conditions laid down in Article 1(1) of this Article. Article 32 - Minister closer prescribes the minimum conditions laid down in Article 1(1) of this Article. It is the number of employees, the minimum conditions for the number of employees. Transport records – the minister is closer to regulations the content, form and manner of keeping the traffic records. The trade in agricultural products and domestic animals – the minister and the competent minister for agriculture affairs – are contractually closer to prescribing minimum technical conditions for trading in buying places. Working hours – the minister is closer to regulating criteria for determining the framework working time for certain trading formats. The impact on the structure of the market, this is the member I've been talking about all along – the minister is making the content and way of making an impact study from Article 1 of this article. The exchange of data – the minister shall prescribe the type of data referred to in Article 1, as well as the form and contents of the form referred to in Article 2. Oversight – the supervision of the centre's work in the doing of entrusted tasks is done by the ministry, we are talking about this center for the development of trade against which we are absolutely set up, we have proposed in this sense the amendment. It's precisely because that center, in addition to what you've given him in law to keep records, to draw up questionnaires, etc., what the ministry can do and what will essentially be done by the ministry, because here you suggest that this centre be funded from the ministry's funds as a special department, which means it will be part of the ministry. He's basically only got one function, hidden, that center. Since the centre is giving an opinion on this study, it is possible that the investor can find some scientific and research organization that will be accredited, which will give an opinion that you do not like or someone whose interests are close to you, and then that study will get a negative opinion from this centre. Investors are likely to be sent to quite certain scientific and research organisations. The inspection, programme and method of passing a special expert examination for the market inspector shall be governed by the minister. I'm continuing, all the powers that this law... The destruction of the confiscated goods, the minister is closer to prescribing the conditions laid down in Article 1 concerning the way in which a certain type of goods is destroyed. The complaint – I am talking about the complaint of the inspector's solution. The solution, the minister is finally in administrative proceedings and an administrative dispute can be launched against him. The appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. Until the start of the Centre for the Development of Trade in the Office of the Centre is carried out by the Ministry. One more piece of evidence that the center is unnecessary, since these jobs can be done by the Ministry. Everything I said upstairs is about the terrible centralization of this law, the terrible discretionary powers you take for yourself. To remind you that such discretionary powers as individuals have are the source of systemic corruption. Most kindly, I ask that, regardless of the interests behind this member and the attempt to control the investments in this area, consider abolishing this member. Then this law would be acceptable to us. With this member, not that it's not acceptable, but it's absolutely unacceptable. Serbia has a competition law. Let that law work. It would be better, Mr. Minister, if we had chosen a new commission to protect the competition, a competition for the members, because this one has expired. I think she only slept with two members. The competition has been called around New Year's Eve. You in the ruling coalition still cannot agree on these five people, how you will divide them and whose interests will protect them. Leave the market for what's going on in Europe. Let local self-governments make detailed and general urban plans and leave the capital private that it decides at its own risk. The citizens of this town won't have any. If this law remains like this, then it is completely pointless to the Consumer Protection Act, because whatever it says there, this law will be stronger and consumers will be unprotected, as it is today unprotected, because as often as you study in public, there is no monopoly, the monopoly will be seen and best seen when you enter the store and compare the prices of diapers in Germany and here, when you compare the prices of the company’s wardrobe, when you compare the prices of milk, our milk, Serbian milk here and Montenegro, etc. The only reason you can seem to care about that concentration of large hypermarkets is the survival of small ones. This isn't the way you'll keep the small ones out of the big ones. The kid's gonna make it, 'cause it's big to buy a lot of goods, and in small ones, it's going to settle day-to-day needs. Leave them small, encourage them with other means, give them incentives, and not by doing so, through the care of the little ones you will essentially protect the great. Look at the absurd. I thought this article said 2000, that it was a mistake and it needed 20,000. Absolutely 2,000 store and warehouse space. It's a bigger furniture salon. It's small for you to take your local self-government from Dragas to Horgos to give building permits. Delta City has 85,000 squares. The mouth of a shopping mall has 130,000 square meters. The Mercator has 52,000 squares. All three Veropouloss have 20,000, where it is the smallest on the Star - 3,000 squares. "Metro" them 21,000 square meters. Mercury has 38,000 square meters. "Do it yourself" has 4,500 square meters. "Idea" has 12,500 square meters. You say by law, anyone who wants to build over 2,000 squares of storage and sales space should report to me. It's a bigger grocery store in Western Europe. I thought you meant 20,000, but I can see there's no correction. Absolutely think about it. This isn't European, this is a command economy. This is what Stalin would envy. Remember Titus's time. This in Tito's time couldn't, this kind of impact on the market economy. So we didn't expect liberally, but this kind of scandal with the plan-based economy of market influence, the protection of the monopoly, we didn't exactly expect it. That's not European.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42880	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42881	Mr. Ostojić, I understand your concern for market freedoms, for the arrival of new players in the Serbian market sector, but I don't understand the hard words that really don't have a place here, the type of scandal and the protection of monopolies etc. I'll answer why this study is necessary with two arguments. The first 85% of newly built trade facilities in Belgrade were built in New Belgrade and in a very narrow location. Many countries, such as France as you mentioned, have similar, even more rigorous regulations. In France, over 400 square meters is a condition to make a study, like this or similar, and gain consent to build these facilities. Care for small and medium-sized traders is very important because there are over 105,000, retail facilities in Serbia, very many jobs and they meet our daily needs on those natural flows when we go from house to job, to school, to college. It is very important not to build in one place the same trading formats. What do you think if you were in a place where there was a "do it yourself", another five "do it alone" next to each other, is that rational, and is that necessary? However, the idea is not to limit it, the idea is only if we can influence that every citizen of Serbia or as much as we can influence that every citizen of Serbia has the option of choice, has the possibility of buying in modern trade formats, that in other cities of Serbia, not only in a few cities, the investments of traders occur, because when you go to Germany, which you also mention, both in Hamburg and Munich, both in Berlin and in Dusseldorf and in Stuttgart, everything is available everywhere and everyone has the same choice. That's not how it's in Serbia. It is not the same choice of consumers in Valjevo or Vranje with those in Belgrade or Novi Sad. It is not the idea at all that we are limiting anyone and in anything, but only the intention of trying to influence dimensioning and trading formats across Serbia, thus helping to preserve the retail and medium-sized enterprises sector, thus obtaining the breadth of trade formats depending on the needs of Serbian citizens, and that is precisely why we have suggested that this study is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42882	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42883	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, I am advocating Articles 27, 31 and 104. Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, I am truly sorry for the warning you gave to New Serbia President Velimir Ilic, because I believe that no single reason was for this, especially since there was a moment when the microphone was turned off. He accepted it and came out of the O.R. because apparently you took his word and he of course came out. I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure is talking about him being obliged to listen to the chairman. The very act of turning off the microphone was enough. He stood still and came out of this room without a word. You know, I'm not saying this on behalf of Velimir Ilic right now. I say this on behalf of all MPs of the opposition practically, I now have one fear of reporting in this assembly, because if a word is taken from me or my microphone is shut down, so my reaction to getting out of the O.R. is to accept and the fact that my word was taken from me in a peaceful way, without a single word, Velimir Ilic did not send a single word to you, but he accepted it peacefully and came out of the O.R. At the moment, the minister is here and Velimir Ilic exchanged some words from the past when they were together in the government, who contributed or no longer contributed, in one completely even normal discussion. Hence, what I asked in the Rules of Procedure yesterday was that ministers must also choose how they treat their MPs, because this is exactly the discussion that the minister began when he accused him that during that period when he was in government some things were wrong, which he only returned to him that he was also in the Chamber of Commerce during that period. It would be really parliamentary for you to find a way to withdraw.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42884	There are no injuries to any of those members of the Rules of Procedure. I understand the tendency of all of us who participate in the debate so that we do not remember what we have said. That's why there's a stenogram. National MP Velimir Ilic, under Article 100 of Article 7, had to receive a warning. Article 100, which I point to you to read, is the first position – the MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which was done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, immediately after the injury done, which the MP Velimir Ilic did not do, and thus made the abuse of the rights set out in Article 100(1). And Article 7 of the same Article of the 100th says – the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not comply with the provisions laid down in Article 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this Article to give the measures provided for in Articles 105, 106, 107 and 108 of this Rules of Procedure. If the strict application of article 100 were to happen, then I'd have to give you the measure set out in article 7. Please do not abuse the rights to breach of the Rules of Procedure or the right to receive words. This abuse does no good to anyone. Everything I have given you in an explanation that there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure can be consulted by a stenogram, even a presentation by MP Velimir Ilic, who is not interrupted, even by the presentation of Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic and my attempt to not give the measure to the MP Velimir Ilic, but to remind him of the obligation under Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Zoran Ostojic also sought a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42885	Article 104. Mr. Milosavlevich, I was really trying to choose words. I don't know what's bothering you with the word scandal. I'm sorry, but how can I tell you, the moment Serbia struggles to become an EU member candidate, it will use the law of the formulation that this study, i.e. This scientific and research institution shall determine the interest of consumers and other customers for the existence of a trade facility given surface and purpose. Mr. Milosavljevic, don't you really realize that the time has passed when some institutions have established the interests of the citizens? Don't you think that whoever wants to invest 100m euros probably better determines the interest of consumers, etc., so if they find that consumers are interested in the wall, they will build? If there's anything else, he probably won't determine or determine that he's interested again, so he'll risk his money. This law was really written for the command economy when the state rules "apple"; "Višnica", and I know, and this is not the law of a liberal market economy that wants to be part of the EU. That's what this is about. You say - imagine three more are made next to "do it yourself." Will the citizens have a choice? Yeah, then he'll have a choice if he's got three "do it alone." You've been around the world for a while, haven't you? When you go to America, you walk into the street, there's ten car dealers. What do you think Chicago authorities should say – there's now one that sells cars, so I can't say the other. Why did these others open that store dealer next to Ford, Toyota, etc? Because people come here to buy cars? There's more traffic for everyone. Look to Segedin, there's five-six on one salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42886	Time. I didn't realize which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42887	Mr. Secretary said I use hard words. Article 104, I said everything, you were just changing at that point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42888	Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, if he hasn't used his right, want a word? No, I don't. ) The new breach of the Rules of Procedure wants Mr Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42889	It's extremely good, Madam President, that you're back in the O.R. I advertise Rules of Procedure, 27, 31 and 104. I haven't been able to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42890	You can't get the word. You've already advertised the violation of these members of the Rules of Procedure. You've already talked about it, you can't do it twice in the same terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42891	I'm not a member of 31.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42892	I'm assessing that you're abusing the Rules of Procedure's Infringement Institute. You don't have a word. The order of MPs, according to the application for a word, is in principle a search of the proposal for a law on trade first on the list by MP Zoran Bortic, who has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42893	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in addition to the constitutional basis which, by Article 97 point 6. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia determines that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a single market, the legal position of economic operators and the system of performing business and other activities, there are other significant reasons for the adoption of a new law on trade. These reasons rest in the current social processes our country is going through in transition and on the path of integration into European integration. Among the most important reasons that impose the need to pass a new law or legal act that will regulate an extremely important branch of our economy as trade is, overcoming and outdated existing rules can be cited. The current regulations, to a large extent, restrict competition and the development of this area in general. In addition, there is a new need to edit new types and ways of trade, such as distance trade, trade on the threshold, auction and stock exchange. These forms of trade have not been arranged for us so far, and the need to build a developed trade structure throughout the republican area has been imposed. It is particularly important that the new law will bring the area of trade in our country into line with EU rules, which lay down the conditions for carrying out trade and protecting against harmful competitions. Starting with the aforementioned reasons, the proposed text of the law seeks to norm the ambience to establish a modern, stable and supplied market throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and to reduce the role of the state and its interference in the competition as little as possible. Such a legal environment will ensure the development of an efficient market economy. The restrictions on trade have been reduced to a minimum and limited extent, only in situations where stability, market supply is necessary and must be abolished as soon as it has been established that the reason why the market restriction measure has been imposed has ceased. The law on trade will have a central place in the normative sense governing the transport of goods and services in our country. It is therefore very important because it regulates the overall traffic and behaviour of the participants in this traffic, i.e. it regulates the transport of goods and services in a general way. In addition, the law introduces nomenclatures and classifications of forms and methods of trade, introduces new institutes such as trading formats and similar, as well as a legal framework for the promotion of trade, especially in order to establish a favourable structure of trade facilities and the development of commercial entrepreneurship. All these measures have, in addition to others, one basic objective of ensuring an equal match, market supply and equality for all participants in the trade chain. The special newspaper in the proposed legal text is that it regulates a more efficient way of protecting economic operators, from the various self-will of the administration and restrictions and supervision of trade, which provides greater legal certainty in business. It should also be recalled that the proposal for a law on trade, which we are discussing today, in a conceptual sense, and by most proposed legal solutions, is a normative concreteisation of the strategy for the development of trade between the Republic of Serbia, which our country has established for the next decade. Dear fellow Members of the People, I will not say anything new when I say that both as a state, and as a society and all of our citizens, we need a stable and developed market of goods and services and such a trade that will provide approximately equal conditions for all participants in this complex and responsible business at each point in our country. We need a trade that will develop on the basis of market laws, not on the basis of pre-established monopolys. We need a trade that will first highlight consumers and their consumer needs and interests, not profit at all costs and at the expense of consumers or other participants in the trade chain. Finally, we need a modern trade that will be integrated into other branches of our economy in an efficient and lasting way, thus contributing to a more versatile and intensive development of society in general. To develop such a trade, we need both effective legal and other regulations, which will create a normative environment and security for business in this area. I think the proposed text of the law on trade is one significant regulatory step on this complex and responsible path, which as a country we must pass to integration into a highly demanding European market. That is why the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the text of this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42894	National MP Mladen Grujic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42895	Dear colleagues, Madam President, Mr Minister, I think it was clear to you from the presentation of Mr Velimir Ilic that we cannot support your bill, but not only because we are the opposition and by definition we should be against your proposals, but simply that there is nothing in this law that I could be pleased with, but I must admit there is nothing that I am particularly dissatisfied with. We have a law in front of us that has nothing good or bad, you simply joined the Law on Trade in 1993, the Law on Terms of Transport of Goods from 1996, the Law on Prices of 2005, and you added four English words to the word hypermarket and cash end dogs, and you declared it a new social fluid. You're saying this law went through 23 public hearings. That's rare. That's commendable. But the effects foreseen by this law seem to have been lost through these intense public discussions. This law seems to be a set of compromises between all actors on the Serbian market, you know it well. He can't bring good results. I'm afraid you've fallen under the pressure of various interesting groups, and I didn't expect that from you. A few years ago, a Strategy for the Development of Trade of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, and it explicitly declares state interests in this sector. These include improving competitiveness, protecting small traders, supporting Serbian export trade. Your law does not help to develop any of the above categories. For years, the public and the profession have been talking about the phenomenon of the mix of Serbian trade and urbanism, which makes us unique in Europe, which is the construction of a hypermarket in the narrow city cores. Serbian President Boris Tadic said in "The Utjest of the Week" that he was disgusted by the construction of the Uste Market Centre at 800 metres from Terazi. It has been announced that you, which are representatives of the Ministry, will prevent the construction of such objects, which act as an atomic bomb on the local trade in cities. You've treated this phenomenon in law too superficially and by the way, it's just a matter of order. So, the law provides for some kind of impact study, which has the significance of a written task in Serbian, to regulate the opening of a hypermarket in shops. Here, if you'll allow me, I'll save you both time and money to make those studies and tell you right away that the influence of the hypermarket in the city's cores on the local trade will be executed. Here, we save all future studies, everything that was to be done, here I take responsibility, I can say that's the case. You know that, too, and those who build hypermarkets and those who lose their jobs in small shops. So, I'm afraid we're going to pass a law that instead of introducing order into trade, introduces direct legal uncertainty into trade. You are too many members of the law, my other colleagues who are not from my party talked about it, put in some description category, and in Serbia we have a lot of experience with such laws, and we know very well what happens in practice when the legislator does not explicitly define all possible situations that can happen. Let me give you a few examples. In Article 35, it seems to me, you require all documents to be monitored at any moment by the goods in the traffic, not just by the dispatcher, as it has been decades ago. That's impossible. We're passing a law that we can't implement, because that means, let's say, for some goods from imports we need with every item, every department of goods to go through customs records, sanitary tests, storage documents, invoices, severances, I just listed some, because all the documents mean what I said. With every truck of goods sent around Serbia, we'll have a truck of documentation that tracks it. I admit that you have stated that it is possible to do so in electronic form, just excuse me, is the same Serbia that you and I live in. If the truck driver is going to wear a small USB, so when the market inspector stops him with a computer on the way, he's going to join the inspector's computer, and they're going to look at electronic documentation together. Perhaps, possibly, I look forward to that future Serbia. But today it won't be possible to implement. Then, in article 41, you lift the price emphasis in euro. That's good. This fits the strategy put forward by Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, and I also support it, but I don't know how you're going to implement it. Now let's take a walk from here to that incriminating TC "The mouth", which billboard has commercials with the price of cars in euros or tourist arrangements that are also in euros. We can count by tomorrow. It may be possible to implement this article, but let's see how you do it. What I'm talking about right now are bill proposals that are annoying, impractical, difficult to implement, but there are proposals in the law that are directly catastrophic. In Article 44, you introduce that at the time of the decrease on the product, it must be written as to how long the previous price was. It's clear to me what you wanted to do, and it's commendable what you wanted, because there are traders who are currently raising the price by 20% and two days later publishing a discount of 30%. The way you predicted it in the law is bad, because you have introduced a system of controls that will block the big chain sales system, because you have predicted at any price so many information that the consumer does not care about anything in the store, they are even directly incomprehensible, and you will only make it difficult to work. Also, you're introducing another concept, which I think is wrong, and I think practice will show that you're wrong, you're introducing a concept – a slave before the end of the term. What does that mean? So, the egg lasts for three days and you last one day before it expires, after two days at the store, you say it should be mentioned in the article – attention, attention, we have another day until the expiry date. Just to warn you, the goods are either correct or invalid, not intended to be a bit correct. That's what my previous colleagues were talking about, that you're introducing description categories that are dangerous and that contribute to what I'm fighting, you're declaring that you're fighting and I believe you're fighting. That means we have to fight corruption. These laws allow bad parts of the state's apparatus to do whatever they want. That's what we're supposed to stop. Also, I have to admit, I don't know what this is about the Trade Development Center. I understand what he's got to do, but I'm amazed that no one's ever done it in the Ministry before and that we need to announce a new center that will deal with something I thought was a regular job of the Ministry. I also have a small remark, a grudge. By the way you described what the business of the mall for the development of trade is, my impression is that it should not be under the supervision of the Ministry of Trade, but of the Ministry of Economy, but we will discuss it further. It's in the amendments we've submitted. Generally, we have submitted a dozen amendments, which I am aware cannot make this law good, but at least we have tried to mitigate some catastrophic consequences. I'm done. This law, according to me, is not in line with the new times in which we are in relation to the 1993 trade law, but I'm afraid it's not modern enough and I'm afraid that by the time we vote it out, by the time it takes effect, it will be time to introduce some new moments into the law on trade. I think it's wrong that we didn't bring it today, that it lasts for the next ten or twenty years.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42896	National MP Stevica Spijic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42897	The Honorable President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP group G 17 plus in voting day will be supported by the Trade Act. It should be noted that the Law has passed a broad public debate and what we can notice is that many of the proposals that have been made as good have been found in the bill of law before us today. The main reason for the adoption of the law on trade is the transmutation of current legal solutions in the matter of trade. The aim of this law is to secure a stable and supplied market. The law on trade will play a central role and will regulate overall traffic, i.e. the purchase and sale of goods, as well as the behaviour of actors in the process of trade, i.e. the transport of goods and services at the general level. This law also regulates trade, trade division, trade conditions, trade development, as well as market protection, protection against non-compliance with the competition and surveillance. The law is one of the key to the market in Serbia and is important for harmonising our rules with EU rules and will represent a more attractive environment for working in the trade sector in Serbia. This law also contributes to Serbia's decentralisation, i.e. part of the business is transferred to the level of local self-government. First of all, I'm thinking about inspection jobs. The law also prescribes categorisation of facilities, affecting customer safety, regulates stimulating sales, the way a trader sells goods under favourable conditions, such as discounts and sales. The new law also reduced the number of regulations. The law should speed up domestic trade and preserve the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises that employ more than 400,000 workers. The law on trade should bring domestic regulations into line with European legislation, so there is no difference whether any trade deals in Serbia or in any of the EU member states, especially in the area of regulation of non-compliance with the competition. This law on trade will also regulate the conditions for trade, types of trade, protection against unfair competition, promotion in trade, measures to ensure trade stability and supervision. For all of these reasons, the G 17 plus parliamentary group will support this law on trade in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42898	National MP Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42899	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I have to return, I don't think we're happy with the explanation you've given. For us, this article of 45th is important, first of all, because it looks at a government which is so visible in the past and especially in the last six months of this year, in which the government is appointed as someone who will be able to address all the problems that our society is in, but only give answers to some final problems while, in our opinion, at the same time creating an atmosphere that only deepens these problems. I'll remind you, our reaction may have been a little more radical than necessary, but that's because last week or before a law was passed in this assembly, under which, on a proposal from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, a tender in the business of the state is lifted. We now simply think that what is currently going on as some kind of government course in the economy is not something that we are willing to support in any way, and our duty as an MP is to warn you about. So we don't think it's possible that the state is better than who's going to invest thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions of euros assessing the interest of whoever's doing it. We do not see in this the desire of the state to help consumers, but we see one limiting factor or better to say another limiting factor for someone for whom we at least publicly listen to daily calls to invest in this country. If we stick to the case that you gave, although it may be too banal, but to keep on it, that there are five "do alone" stores in one neighborhood or part of the city, simply let's look at Article 45, he says that this controversial impact study must contain an assessment of the interests of consumers and other customers for the existence of a trading facility given surface and intentions. We assume that this is some basis on which someone plans to spend millions of euros to build such a facility. The basic basis is that there is a consumer's interest in this. On the other hand, the need for the existence of a different structure of commercial formats and different commercial entities in the wider and narrow market area. Unfortunately, I don't think that if you forbid someone from building such a facility in New Belgrade, they'll take that money and go to Valjevo. I don't think that's what happens. If we forbid someone from working on New Belgrade, they will take that money and go to Zagreb. It's simple, it's a reality. Under three - the need to improve trade and influence other small and medium size business entities. That's where I agree, you can give an absolute answer from today, so in the future. Yes, the impact will also be negative, but there is no key impact on consumer protection. Will another such facility reduce the price of these products or services to be offered? He will, and that's the point. Yes, there are 105,000 shops, small grocery stores, or whatever you want, that make people buy it dirty daily, but will some supermarket, provided it wasn't from one owner, like "Maxie" supermarket, but that there are more, will they lower the price of these products and those sawdustrs? It will. Will it be better for every citizen of Serbia? It will be. Why is it necessary for the government to decide such matters? It's not a matter to be decided by anyone except someone who invests money. If we're already talking about economics, I don't remember now, and perhaps Mr. Lovret's case is being taught an example in which, of course, more objects in one part, in one region, help sell in each of these objects individually. It's normal for such things to group. Ostojić said about car dealers, but so it is in various ways. One of the MPs said there was a neighborhood with light bulbs in Istanbul, someone said there were... Of course there are, there are parts of the city in Thessaloniki that only deal with car parts. Who decides? I guess the one who's ready to invest. What's the state doing with that kind of responsibility? Why does the state even take it upon itself? Which, we say, is very clearly defined by this study, it represents, if this is a new object, part of the total documentation required for authorisation. It's another piece of paper that's gonna need someone who's thinking about whether or not we have it. We don't have a rush, there's not thousands of investors standing at the door of this country, just waiting to say, "Here you go, so that they come in and start building." That's not the situation. Now, if we say there's a campaign, it's incorrect. It is the famous guillotine of regulations, which even Republika Srpska managed to do, only in Serbia it failed. This is the opposite of that. You said there was a basic reason to influence the variety of offers. That won't lead to that result. If you forbid someone to invest money, build where they think they're going to earn something, he won't go where we think he's supposed to go, so the Valjev people have it, as they have in Hamburg, you've listed Germany, is, in every city in Germany, there's the most possible diversity, but it's not the result of the law, but their standard. When people in Valjev have, when they're so justified that there's a "do it yourself", "Metro", "Mercator" and "Delta" or "delta" or "idea" or whatever, it's going to exist. It won't exist because we passed the law with Article 45. That's the time behind us. I don't agree with the hard words. I don't think, unfortunately, in our daily life, there will be many opportunities, at least in the next few months or years, for this member to be activated. If hundreds of investors, hundreds of some companies are interested in doing that, even if we understand, then the ministry chooses, well, let's make this a little bit, a little bit of that, but there's no one there. And the existing malls will close, as you well know, and this "ugly" one, according to President Tadic, and they are beautiful, according to Bozidara Djelic, for example. "Delta Siti," which is an aesthetic miracle, unlike "The mouth" that is disgusting. And ugly and beautiful, they don't depend on members of the law, nor on the government's will, they depend on whether someone buys them or not. No one buys in them, as you well know. There's a lot of people, because there's an air conditioner, not because they're buying something. When it's hot, then people with kids go there. We think you should think about it one more time, if that's possible. It doesn't really change this law for you, but just to try and make it easy for anyone who wants to invest money here, to let them try it. We cannot allow anyone to succeed, but at least we are not trying to disable that attempt, as unfortunately Serbia is in such a situation rather than in this second one, which we would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42900	MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42901	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are ahead of us with the Proposal for a Law on Trade and, it is clear, it is one system law in this area, which is, among other things, one of the three laws that are key to the Serbian market, in addition to the Competition Protection Act, which was adopted last year and the consumer protection law, which we expect to be on the agenda of the Republic's session by the end of 2010. The proposal for a law on trade, which will apply from 1 January 2011, is one step towards the adoption of a consumer protection law, because this legal proposal indirectly affects, in our opinion, customer safety and we think through the obligation that the trader must have documents on the production, storage, sale of goods, as well as a clear emphasis on the prices of goods and services. Repeat what the authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary club said at the beginning of his presentation. The SPS-JS Parliament Club in principle supports this legislative proposal. This is one of the few system laws that has not undergone any changes over the past period, so the basic reason for the adoption of the new law on trade is precisely in fact, or decade-long overcoming so far. As mentioned among other things, the adoption of the Law on Trade will cease to apply the Law on Trade of 1993, then the Law on conditions for the operation of the transport of goods, the provision of goods and inspection services from 1996 and the 2005 Prices Act. The main reason for the adoption of the law on trade is the overcoming of existing legal solutions, but one of the main reasons is the need to introduce new types and ways of trade. This legislative proposal introduces modern solutions in this sector in a certain way, in line with EU rules. So once again, I want to say that we really think that this is one of the most important economic and market laws, which regulates all traffic and traffic users' behaviour. Of course, we support the objective set out in the light of this legislative proposal – guaranteeing as much freedom of trade and competition as possible, but also as little State interference in this sector as possible. We want to believe that the adoption of this proposal will realise those positive trends in the trade sector, which have been mentioned, and I also think of new investments, jobs, a more balanced schedule of modern and modern trading formats throughout Serbia, and that this legislative proposal will allow our company to spread to other countries' markets. This law comes from the basic principle that trade is free and that everyone participates equally and is allowed to deal with trade. The bill makes it very clear that persons who can have the property of a trader and carry out the business of trade are therefore defined categories of traders. In addition, the need for the introduction of new types and ways of trade that have already been brought to life in Serbia has increased. For the first time, it would be possible to conduct and regulate retail trade on a small non-sale facility, and specific market institutions are also envisaged, and specialised goods services have been defined. The law prescribes, as is said, the categorisation of sales formats modelled by EU country standards. Also, what I want to point out and what I find extremely important, this law makes a certain contribution and a shift in decentralisation, because market inspection for goods sold outside the sales place will be in the jurisdiction of local self-government. At the very end, I would like to say that it is very important that a broad public debate is carried out around this system, an extremely important law, or law of exceptional importance. What is more important, after the adoption of this legislative proposal, is the implementation of the law and its application in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42902	MP Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42903	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing the Proposal for a Law on Trade and I must say that this is a very important and important law. On the one hand, current legal solutions in the area of trade are completely exceeded and obsolete, and do not meet the needs of the modern market economy and do not give legal certainty to trade operators in Serbia. On the other hand, there is the necessity and need to edit some new ways and types of trade that have not been governed by the law so far. First of all, I'm thinking about trade in personal offerings, auctions, stock exchanges and other kinds of stores that haven't been arranged so far. What is incomprehensible and surprising, what has waited until now with the adoption of this law? The law is a roof law in the area of trade, and it should take a central place in the regulation system that regulates the transport of goods and services in Serbia. Serbia has a Trade Development Strategy and on the basis of this strategy, the roof law on trade was first to be adopted, and later on other laws that treat certain parts of trade, I mean the consumer protection law, standards, quality of goods, competition law and other laws. When I mentioned the Law on the Protection of Competition, I must refer to that law. A year ago, this congregation adopted amendments to the Law on the Protection of Competition. The DSS parliamentary group then had a series of objections and amendments which unfortunately were not accepted and proved to be right after a year of law enforcement. When we talk about it, I mean the Competition Protection Commission. The Competition Protection Commission should be an independent regulatory body covering a very important area. We then proposed that solutions relating to the selection of members of the Competition Protection Council remain as solutions that were in the previous law, so as not to violate their independence, so that we proposed that professional associations propose members of the Council. So, they're chosen by the National Assembly on the proposal of professional associations, which is the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Economists, the Association of Lawyers, the Bar Association and one representative of the Government. Unfortunately, our amendment has not been accepted and these amendments of the law have been amended that members of the Competition Protection Commission are elected by the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee responsible for trade affairs. Following the amendment of the law, the president of the National Assembly held a competition last November for the election of the president and members of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. The contest was corrected in January. The contest is over, 20 candidates signed up. It has been more than five months, and we on the Assembly's agenda still do not have a choice of president and members of the Competition Protection Council, although it works in the back. Of the five members, the two have expired, so they work within three members. It is not certain when these members will be elected to the Assembly agenda. They haven't even started consultations yet, and they haven't talked to the candidates. You'll agree that it's not normal for one such important body in this area not to be built. It says that we were right when we proposed amendments to remain previous legal solutions, because, in any case, we would have already established a Council for the Protection of Competition. To go back to the trade bill. I said it was a very important law. However, we have a number of objections to the proposed text of the law. I think the law could have been a little more precise and that some things should have been defined in the law itself. I think that at least 20 members say that the minister in charge of trade affairs is closer to prescribing certain conditions, prescribes some rules. I agree that the minister should propose sub-legislative acts that the government will adopt, which will elaborate in more detail on certain provisions of the law. However, I think it was exaggerated, that something could have been found in the law, because in each other there is this formulation that the minister will be closer to sorting the area. For example, in Article 15, where trade formats are talked about, it's listed, it's a supermarket, hypermarket, discount, shopping center, cash end dog centre and others. I think it must also be taken care of small independent trade activities that are over 90,000 in Serbia, both because of the spread of the trade network in Serbia, because large trade chains will not come to every part of Serbia, and because of the number of employees, because there are a large number of people working in these shops. But also because of the preservation of domestic production, because of small producers who can't get into large trade chains, they only place their goods in small commercial stores, I think this article could define which trading formats they are. Also, one of the most significant of our remarks on the proposed text is the establishment of a mall for the development of trade. We are absolutely opposed to the establishment of a mall for the development of trade. We believe that this is completely unnecessary and that this job, which is described in the law to work for a trade development centre, can be carried out by the Ministry, or one sector within the Ministry of Trade. Especially in the context of the economic crisis, when we all talk about the necessity of reducing public spending, of rationalising, of reducing the number of employees, I think it is unnecessary to set up a new centre to apply the rules for public agencies. It is true, it explains, that it will not increase budget funds for this, but will be from one of the sections of the Ministry of Trade and will not increase the number of employees. Why would they leave that kind of dilemma behind? If that's the case, I think a sector within the Ministry of Trade can do the job in a good way. We've submitted a lot of amendments to this bill. When the debate is in particular, we will explain these amendments. I invite you to read the amendments. I think they are correct and you should accept these amendments, because by accepting these amendments, this text of the law will be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42904	MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was hoping that, in the draft of this law, we would finally have one orderly matter on trade. All that one country starts and everything that its whole concept is based on, except civil rights and freedoms, is trade in the financial sector. From this trade, the full budget of the Republic of Serbia, starting with customs duties, profit tax, income tax, value added tax. However, nothing new, nothing that will significantly regulate and regulate our way of functioning our market on the territory of the Republic. First, this famous Article 41, which some MPs have already caught up with and reached for, as far as pricing is concerned, does not say anywhere that it is exclusively a means of paying for a dinar. It says "in the currency of payment traffic." Mr. Minister, you can, as one of my colleagues said, see hundreds of billboards, thousands of newspaper ads, see thousands of ads on the Internet where some goods or services are offered where the price is expressed in euro. If someone takes and closes the matter a little bit, except for the price in euros, it will be concluded that the euro is then far more expensive than any bank sells to citizens. So only the means of payment in Serbia should be domestic currency or dinar. This should have been clearly and precisely written in the law, not left to let consumers know how they know and know how to buy a certain good. In one indirect way, a grey economy is introduced here, because this course changes day by day and in an indirect way someone creates a certain extraprofit. Also, this article 41 foresees the possibility of a trade in both large and small at a sales facility. Mr. Minister, I'll tell you briefly what it looks like. The trader, the owner of an independent store, pulls the money out of the register, goes to stores like that, just like that, buys cash goods and takes it back to the store. Someone will say, "Well, it's okay, they'll report that bill, they'll write it down, they'll justify why he did it." I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what about those whose money really belongs to him, and these are his business partners who delivered the goods to him, from whom he got the money, which he was granted the means of guarantees, that's the most common note, and that's what keeps him in the blockade, and they can't get to their means because the law allows him to do this? The only thing left is a criminal liability, but that's the last instance, so the damage claim, etc. I think it's the job of the government of the Republic of Serbia to prevent any kind of abuse in a business called trade and that not only those who have certain large chains from being privileged, in this case they are. Who does that? The most common owners of these big trade chains. They have sales space, retail, but they can buy for wholesale prices. To make things worse, there is almost no deviation between retail and wholesale prices because the state has also done nothing to prevent the monopoly position of large chains. Do you know how much book approvals are going? Five to 30% for big chains. Can such a small owner of an independent trade shop directly buy under these conditions goods or will be forced to go into its ruin, to acquire it even cheaper, but from its competition. One more thing, I was hoping the law would finally settle the inspection service issue. It's nice that you're the one who predicted that all the paperwork goes under the law. However, documentation with goods is when goods are found in legal traffic. It's not the transport of goods. Therefore, it is only enough to prove the origin of the real owner of the goods and to whom the goods are delivered, and when the goods go to the end of the consumer, of course all the documentation is required, means sanitary findings, declarations, etc. However, when you look at the competencies of the market inspection, where you, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are directly responsible, are working on your instructions, why didn't you and your colleague from the Government finally settle the issue of inspection services for trade? I'll tell you, I've had a chance to see that the same facility is being controlled by agricultural inspection, sanitary inspection, market inspections and the tax police, sitting in line, a great competition between inspection services to finish one to get the other started. It could have been solved in a different way, to finally unite the inspection service and to know who was going when and where. I agree when it comes to tax police, it's a special authority and it's supposed to stay that way, but you can't get three or four inspections outside the IRS to push some guy into the store and everybody starts doing what he thinks they should do. This way and with this law, nothing new will happen in the area of trade. You have also reportedly placed your goods in a substantiated position of agricultural producers, those small, tiny ones, who can only place their goods on markets or out of buyouts. Mr. Minister, I remember in some time, I agree there's one problem entirely, which is the correctness of the goods and the keeping of the goods, but I'm sorry, I've never seen anyone get poisoned because some country housewife, to say a peasant, brought 10 or 20 eggs to his door. Or you've had a chance to see these same country housewives blow milk around the houses in the morning. You want to end it, one tradition that no one has ever had any damage, no one has ever gotten sick before? You break that by this law, but that's why the big ones can do whatever they want, no one forbids them to work on conditions that aren't marketable and that represent no competition. So you limit that distance sale outside the sales site to what can be sold that is not so easily corrupt and that no one will have any harm, not just a big one. One more thing, I haven't seen markets outside of Serbia where goods of broad consumption are sold. The markets sell agricultural products and consumer goods everywhere in the world, only in Serbia can you sell wardrobes at markets. I think that practice should be interrupted, because when an independent trader opens a shop, hires workers, takes a place under rent, has certain costs, and all of these costs have some income and provide themselves with some life, except for one who goes, gets and sells at far lower prices because there is no cost of directing that burdens these others. And it's not permanent and control is much harder. In this way, we, slowly but surely, chain large trades, major restrictions on small, slow but surely shut down our small entrepreneurship in Serbia, at least when it comes to trade. I'm just going to give you one example, you see these hypermarkets that are in Belgrade, according to Novi Sad, according to Nis. Some similar, only much smaller, exist in other places and cities. After 30, 40 or 50 workers, but so they abolish 100-150 SZRs of which nearly 1,000 people live. When you solve that problem and you put them under complete control, so they don't blackmail more suppliers, then we can talk about you making the right trade law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42906	National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr. Minister, this is only the first step in the state of Serbia to regulate market relations, because the Republic of Serbia's market is a major mess. This disorder is seen in a number of facts that I would not repeat, which Mr Zoran Krasic also spoke of. As far as this law is concerned, it should ensure market security, prevent abuses, secure the domestic market, provide domestic products on its market as a priority, not allow for imports of anything and anything from abroad, and produced in the state of Serbia. The big problem will be, so you must try to apply this law, but my proposal is to immediately start preparing amendments and supplementing this law. This law should not have this many members, a total of 81 members. In order to be detailed and to ensure the safety and protection of the domestic market and domestic production, this law should amount to as many members as is the Law on Liabilities. So, a comprehensive law. Secondly, in the case of amendments and additions to the law, Mr. Minister, it was necessary for one chapter to be installed in this law and to protect consumers. This is a very important issue, or you will prepare for the adoption of a new consumer protection law. Consumers in Serbia are not protected. You can see for yourself that you are talking to citizens who buy daily certain products in certain shops. Therefore, this is about abuses and fraud. In order for this law to come alive, the Ministry and local self-government to which certain powers are delegated to take appropriate measures, but in order to be able to trust that this law will be brought to life on a local level, you must, through the competent state authorities, prevent corruption. If you transfer without control of local self-government to apply this law, it's a matter of corruption. Take just one example, a flea in Panchev. The largest flea in the Balkans, first opened. According to analyses, 200m euros were lost uncontrollably, unpaid annually. It's mostly traffickers on the side. There's no order, no communal, no market inspection. If he had it, it wouldn't be that catastrophic state and that crime that's going on in the panic flea market. At least our workers and our citizens are here. On the side, everything and everything is imported and anyone does what they want. In order for this law to be applied, local self-government, market inspection and the ministry must insist and exercise control over how it should live and be applied. As for trade, Mr. Minister, why does Serbia import milk? Why do Serbian citizens, or cattlemen, throw milk? Why did the state allow imports of 4,434.000 litres of fresh milk, whose price is higher than domestic for eight to ten dinars? Do you know, according to the authorities in the slaughterhouses and in the markets, it turns out that about 80,000 male cows ended up being processed? Mr. Minister, the government has to take care of this and have to have information and take measures to protect domestic producers. Fourteen thousand individual producers, small dairy farmers who have cows and sell milk is threatened with imports of milk powder. Last year alone, more powdered milk was imported than in the last 10 years. This has to be prevented. It's in the interest of the citizens and our producers to prevent it. As for the production of livestock, agricultural, fruit, vegetable products, the government of the Republic of Serbia must pay more attention. Do not allow and cheat if you think that if meat comes from the EU and the refrigerator that has been lagered for 20 years, that it is for our industry and for processing and for the use of our citizens more quality than it can be produced in the territories of the Republic of Serbia, in municipalities. For example, the Municipality of Čajetina, Zlatibor, 680 square kilometers this municipality has pastures. There used to be over 100-150 thousand sheep on Zlatibor, and now there's not even 100 sheep. There is Mr Arsen Đurić who can best say what perspectives are for meat production not to the Cave, Zlatar, Zlatibor and not to list. It's big surfaces and great potentials. It needs to be used. Therefore, the Minister of Agriculture would have to visit only the Zlatibor region of Tornik, Murtenica, Zlatar, Mučanj, Javor, Pešter, Jasenovo village, House, Ojkovica, Trudovo, Modici, Negbin, Draglica, Rasnica, Donja and Gornja Bela Reka, Semegnjevo, Krisna Reka, Ravni, Ljubiš, Bela Reka, Buradja, Dumbelovici, Amzici, Kokići, Grbici, Gojgići and not to count. You can have hundreds and hundreds of households and hundreds and hundreds of local communities to make sure good food can be produced there for our needs, not to import anything. This provides domestic production. Last year, meat imported worth 40m, a port worth 5.5m euros, a 10m-dollar grape. They're imports of plums, carrots, everything and everything. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to draw attention and call national security. Byu, both Bija and public security, so the MUP and the competent resorts in the area of trade and agriculture, secret services, as they write newspapers, former republics, also have in the middle of Belgrade bases, apartments, logistically prepared for spying that has been left to them by Yugoslav state security. What's this about? The point is that economic espionage, Croatian and Slovenian, is engaged in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and especially in the area of the AP Vojvodina. The Croatian tycoons also purchased many good agricultural food companies and provided them with large land properties. So it is necessary that you as a representative of the government, also our national security, i.e. The BIA would oppose the economic espionage of Croatia and Slovenia in the area of the Republic of Serbia. These trade chains they are building, they have privileges, but Serbia can't even build a shed in Croatia and Slovenia, but that's why hundreds of thousands can buy, build chains, export. Imagine, some of our businessmen were given candy. They do not produce sugar, but sugar beet, is exported by Croats, then processed in Croatia by Serb sugar tail and is imported and repacked for the needs of the Republic of Serbia's markets.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42908	The word is from Vice President Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42909	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Government and ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would start from the end, as we are discussing today a law that is also very urgent, and otherwise this law will take effect on the eighth day of its publication, and will apply from 1 January 2011. At the same time, Article 80 left enough space for the Government to have sublegal acts, which are otherwise required to be passed in order to enforce this law, passed automatically, as sublegal acts will be applied which will be adopted until the entry into force of this law if they are not contrary to this law. This means that if some sublegal acts are passed which are not quite contrary, but are not exactly in line with the provisions of this law, they will be applied, and this does not specify at what time, at which speed and when these sublegal acts that will enable the real application of this law to be actually passed by the legislator of this law. So much for the urgency of this legislative proposal and so much for how the government really thinks it speeds up some moves that have the capacity to reform our economy. When we come from the principle of trade that is marked in this law, there are several of these principles, such as free trade, equality, prohibition of discrimination, the uniformity of the market, the principle of honesty, stability, supply, proportionality and co-operation, it can be noticed immediately that there are some basic principles missing, if we are indeed in favour of the market economy and market economy. First of all, I think it was really necessary to highlight the principle of banning monopolies, to highlight the principle of competition protection, and to particularly stress that state interventionism would be minimalised. These are these key principles, these are the bases that actually allow some economic development. If the law is read a little more carefully, it can be seen that these principles are in fact not listed as basic solutions to this law, since there is obviously no really serious will to protect the market from monopolies, to protect competition and to reduce its interventionism on the market to the greatest extent possible. They're like a good example. 36th and 45th. Article 36, because of the price as it says – education price on the market is free except for goods and services for which a different way of education is established. That's interesting because really special laws regulate trade in special activities like, say, in the production of strategic goods, which would be oil, sugar, cereals, tobacco, drugs, which means that the subject of this law does not actually represent trade in such strategic goods, but rather something quite secondary. Because you'll let oil and grains and tobacco and drugs and sugar, etc., probably still on the list, of so much importance to the standard of citizens. I would remind you that, let's say, two years ago, we proposed to the government, given that this is in its jurisdiction, to make a decision providing for a reduction in the price of gas at least for the amount paid to the gas and value-added intermediary, as well as for the amount intended to serve so-called. an old debt to gas suppliers. Why did we suggest that? That's why, obviously, there's one state monopoly and there's one single country monopoly on this important strategic product like, say, gas. If the situation around this monopoly and competition were to be considered further, I would remind you that the Competition Protection Council has not yet been established, that it has been thinking for months about who could become a member of this council and that there are clearly serious political struggles that are sufficiently similar to being a member of such serious advice as protection from competition. Therefore, this law is important, it is important to adopt as urgently as possible, however, it simply does not meet the conditions, nor does it have any meaning to bring about an emergency procedure, and that the government is missing a lot of things in order to do so, so it suggested that it be of serious importance to Serbia's market economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42910	The word has an MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42911	Thank you, Madam President. I can't say hello to Mr. Secretary, unfortunately. Gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with the circumstances in which this bill is passed before the MPs and before the citizens of Serbia. Since a few days ago there was this little jubilee of two years of government work, two years since the formation of government, this will turn out to be some small balance of that work, but it is simply an introduction that I could later develop a story about under which circumstances the law can be applied. So in July 2009, the rate of the euro was 78 dinars, and today it is 104.5 dinars. The average salary in July 2009 was 29,453 dinars. It was worth 382 euros. Today, it's worth 325 euros. You took 14.5% of his salary and 57 euros for each employee of Serbia for these two years. The average pension amounted to 225.6 euros, and today it is 192.7 euros. You took 32 euros every pensioner. The number of employees in July 2009 was 1.999.000, and today it is 1,841,000. So in two years, 158,000 people are out of work, and this is approaching the number of 200,000 new jobs you promised, and the unemployment rate has increased by 40%. Over a million inhabitants are currently jobless in Serbia. At the same time, data say that in the state administration by two years the number of jobs increased by 2,357. One of the data that well illustrates how this law should be implemented is the fact that the Belgrade Stock Exchange index has fallen almost three times. Foreign investment has decreased annually by more than twice. Exports were reduced by 10% and imports by one quarter. When it comes to the responsibility of citizens, of 140 euros, of what the citizens' responsibility was, it has now grown to a thousand euros in two years. The foreign debt rose to 3,000 euros per capita, so it doubled. Such political, economic and social indifference has led to the extreme poverty of every ten Serbian citizens and every eight poor. Now we're passing a law on fair trade. I'll agree with a few things when the minister explained this law, and I also found what he said by representing this law in public debates. The minister himself said that the main problems of our market are a small demand, i.e. an extremely large drop in traffic, then a small purchasing power of Serbian citizens and the fear of Serbian citizens to preserve their jobs. In the context of this, since you have mentioned Valjevo several times, I have happened to be from Valjev, to tell you, there is no need for you in the law to stress the readiness of the minister, who otherwise has 33 responsibilities in this law, we have counted, 33 responsibilities the minister himself gave himself, a little bit indeed, there is no reason for you to bring all these laws in such a way that you manage the team in the city of Valjevo, for example, the consumers of Valjevo have the right to have megamarkets, wholesales and to be supplied both better and better. Just let them work, earn their wages, pay them decent, and then the investors will come alone. So you're free to delete that detail from the law and don't mention it, because it's really funny to talk about it. You can make 25 of these megamarkets in Valjevo with your conducting market, they'll play empty because people don't have the basic means to eat, let alone buy in them. Next, I'd like to go from Article 1. In position 1, you say such a thing – this law regulates the conditions and way to conduct and improve trade in the single market of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the protection of the market, protects against unfair competition and supervision. Excuse me, please, is it the Ministry and Minister's task to arrange an unfair competition? He needs to stop her. There's no need to edit something like that. In fact, your mission is to prevent it. But when I read this law very seriously, and when I talked to people who deal with this area, first of all, people who deal with it very specifically, so they work in stores, I realized that you didn't have a mistake here, that there was a clear intention here. That's exactly what you want to do. Furthermore, the law is full of inaccuracies, of ambiguous expressions, of vague formulations, of declarative things that should not be a place in the law. They may be part of some fine literary composition of students until the fourth grade of primary school, but in law they don't have their weight. They are, in fact, in practice and how they can lead to major problems between market inspection, on the one hand, and traders, on the other hand, which are at the end of each other's chain in this process. Here's an example, I think we should comment, because these are some of the most concrete things, not to be just declarative. When you say something should be visible, what do you mean by that? That's what people need to be absolutely clear about. Because to that owner of the kiosk who put on his little kiosk some mark, it's visible to him, but it's not visible to the inspector, and to me as a buyer, it might be more or less visible. So it has to be said exactly how visible it should look and what does that mean? When you say – basic data on a sales facility. What's the basics? What exactly is the basic data? There are many examples in the practice that people were punished because they felt that basic data was something else, and the inspection considered that something else was basic. So, these are some things that, with some more things I'm going to mention, and how they can make life difficult for a small merchant who, from that store, supports a large family and ultimately pays taxes to the state of Serbia, which is not negligible. What else are the problems? Unharmonised documents appearing in this ministry, then in other related ministries that are to prefer a solution to this law, then a lack of clear sublegal acts. For example, you have a situation, and it has often happened in practice that different civil servants in the same ministry fully interpret the same regulation, and then finally, in that chain, traders suffer because they pay the penalty that the inspection cuts them off. Here's an example of whether the KEPO book is run with or without VAT. I will tell you the number of those who were punished in Belgrade and Valjev for receiving different information and different interpretations from the inspection and from different ministry officials. That story is, I hope, resolved, at least it's what people in practice say, but I think you should take care of that kind of thing, because if you have vague regulations, sublegal acts that are late, then you have a situation on the ground that people pay the fines because you don't do your job. What's next is what we at the DSS have noticed and what people in practice have practically noticed and told you in more places. Since it is an opportunity here for us, as their speakers, to say these things, I will tell you, let's say, that you have foreseen new administrative burdens on traders and that these new administrative burdens should be until March 31st of the current year. Now that they are delivering data to the Trade Centre, they are due to deliver to the Tax Administration the VAT account form, then to the PIO Fund the M4 forms for enrolment, then to the Tax Administration the final accounts, the Tax Administration of the individual tax returns for all payments made for workers and other payments for the benefit, the tobacco administration surrenders the statistics on purchases, sales and supplies of tobacco products and tobacco. I don't think we should burden people we know they can't respect them, because simply if you ask them to collect and process all of this within a period of two months, then you'll simply lead people to break the law, not because they don't implement it, but because they can't achieve it. Speaking of the establishment of the Centre, in Article 47, the whole chapter 6 is a promotion of trade and you plan to do so in Article 47. It's a mall for the development of the store. It's one phantom agency, the way things are. It will be subject to the Agency Act, all other details refer to this law. It's actually a fact-finding agency that no less or less needs to do the work that the people of the Ministry are currently doing. I suppose it's clear to the people of the Ministry that the situation in this country is very serious and economically very difficult and that they have to do their job for their salary, as will these newly admitted people at this Trade Development Center. That's why we at the DSS think we shouldn't go that step right now, as you say, forward, and we step back into development, administration, above all, because we think that the Ministry with all these sectors that it has and with all the employees it has is quite and professionally subdued and highly subdued to do the work that has worked so far. I hope it works. When we mentioned more things in this law, I expected one of my colleagues to mention one more thing that is important and related to tourism services. Of course, they are related to this other Tourism Act, but it should also be mentioned because the current story these days is about the famous Conte agency, which has deceived dozens, perhaps hundreds of Serbian citizens. What all people care about is that when citizens plan to travel through tourist agencies they need to know that no one protects them from any fraud, like the one that happened to these poor people who trusted this agency. No institution or organisation has a complete list of agencies that passengers have complained about in previous years. What is even more interesting are statements by the assistant economy minister in charge of Stojan Arizanovic's tourism inspection sector, who reminded his fellow citizens that there is a form for reporting unmilled events on the official website of the Tourist Inspectorate. So, Serbian citizens can only be protected before the court when that malt happens to them. Since this part of tourism services is bordered by this law in many things, and I think that maybe market inspection should have done some part of the job, here at least according to the way tourist agencies operate, it seems to me that maybe someone could talk, and first of all I think about the minister, something about it, because it's a very current topic, a topic that might require a resolution on a much higher level than the assistant minister who doesn't care about the job. An interesting proposal in this bill of yours you make is to control the prices that are important to the lives of Serbian citizens. I see they just picked up those services in public enterprises controlled by the government, like electricity, like phones and things like that. I see they're spinning their heads, but I'm paying them more dearly and I'm guessing Serbian citizens. Finally, I want to tell you one more thing, my colleagues said that 35 amendments were submitted, which means we have a lot of comments and objections to this law and I have to say one fact, from those who broke up with the votes of Serbia and with the confidence of Serbian citizens, I really expected them to make a much better law. This law, unfortunately, is just as bad as the government is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42912	MP Zoran Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42913	You confused me, I expected a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42914	I'm sorry, Mr. Antic, I'll give you back the time, just to give you a heads-up, I made a deal with the vice presidents, since there's something left for about an hour of work, if everyone takes advantage of the time, the MPs who are registered, to work without a break. I'm under the impression you accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law in the position of the SNS, important because it not only regulates the area of trade, but because it regulates the whole market. The SNS finds that serious failures have been made since the transition in 2000. Because of these failures, we have come to a situation where we have serious monopolies, that we have a situation where cartels are formed on the market, that we have a privileged position at every step, and that we have a completely unsettled relationship when it comes to the relationship between manufacturers, traders and consumers as end users. Unfortunately, I think the good part of the situation is wrong and only the Ministry, but also the fact that the Ministry had no power to resist the different pressures in the previous period, which went first and foremost in this direction to attract as much, called foreign investment to Serbia. I say call-in investment because these investments in shopping malls meant only the inflow of potential foreign exchange, but they didn't allow us in these ten years transitions to create products that are exchangeable with the world. That's why we've come to a situation where we can't today based on foreign exchange inflows from exports to cover the imports we need over. What's obvious, and so did the legislator of this law, is that we had very poor statistics, that we had very poor insight about the market, that in some way through this mall for the development of trade might be improved, but it's unfortunate that, in my opinion, there is no greater coordination with the statistical institution that should and how it should process a good part of this data and these jobs. It is unfortunate that we are in a situation that after ten years of market development, the development of a market economy, we have no real insight into what is happening on our market. I would like to say that I also think that the party's policy in power has made one big mistake because it has been a conscious demagogue story, that the development of some large markets will mean some future exports and their spread to the market outside Serbia. It has been shown that they mainly opted for the domestic market, that they worked very little to place domestic production through their retail network and that we have not achieved any results on this plan, that the export situation is also proof that it was the most common demagogy. When you look at the margins that are in our hypermarkets you'll see that they're much bigger than the margins in, say, European hypermarkets. We always kind of look up to Europe. You will also see that when it comes to retail prices that we are in many prices even above the current prices in Western Europe, and that the rise in these prices was extremely high between 2005 and 2009. In this regard, we may have been looking at some Eurostat statistics, leaders not only in the region, but throughout Europe. This best proves that we missed a lot of market regulation in some future period, that we didn't create competition on the market, that by pushing big hypermarkets, we actually destroyed these small traders in a good way. What may be most disturbing to me in this bill, is that I have the impression that the promoters are not aware of any importance, nor of the situation in which the small merchants are present today, are not aware of the facts, at least in my Jagodina, that every other store is practically empty, that a large number of independent trades are closed, that the biggest fall in employees and the largest number of jobs lost in the previous period is right in that sector. Through this bill of law, I see no serious concern that this small trade, the petty trade, is being protected. Hypermarkets are treated in fact only by one member of the law that restricts some 2,000 squares area and the obligation to do an impact study. I think all opposition colleagues have said so, and I, too, must express my dissatisfaction that it is the minister who will decide whether the conditions are met, of course with the help of some reference institutions, but it is without a doubt one discretionary right. There are completely bypassed local self-governments. I think the local self-government has the right to decide what its internal market will look like, that it can highly recommend, that suggestions to the ministry and that what we lack in this law is this very fact that local self-governments are completely neglected. True, not many of these local self - administrations have shown themselves in this previous period. They were glad to have hypermarkets, even if they were opening up at the center. In Jagodina, you have that part of the hotel is turned into a hypermarket in the center itself, hundreds of meters from the main square. You also have a Delta hypermarket that is very close to the center. On the fingers of one hand, I could list the commercial facilities in the area of nutrition that are in the central environment, which best shows that there was not enough account in some previous period and that throughout the Pomorava, the arrival of the political party's hypermarket has been seen as an opportunity for the owners of these hypermarkets to possibly even employ their members, as an opportunity to take care of a part of one staff and to strengthen their political power, regardless of the fact that they are closed to dozens of small shops which are and how necessary to have competition on the market. I would also like to say about hypermarkets that there is no policy here, nor does this law recognise what are the outlines of some strategies, because these hypermarkets often have very little of their own capital. If you take the debt ratio they have, most often the mortgage, on the one hand, and the equity of their own, you come to a relationship that debts are sometimes two or three times bigger than their capital. Borrowed interest money, which you already know, is no wonder that we come to large margins with hypermarkets, that we can very often have a situation where smaller shops can escort these margins, but that hypermarkets on the market start with dumped prices, clean up all small entrepreneurs in the area, and then raise prices and achieve extraprofits and extrazarada. The state in that field didn't do anything. Part of Europe, part of the EU has even limited time limits for paying suppliers. In this regard, our country has done nothing, and there is a huge capital being sucked up, and it is in the service of big trade, rather than in the service of production. No wonder we have such a situation in production today, that our production is getting weaker and that we simply have nothing to go out on the domestic market, and we cannot subsidize those imports that they have, let alone go out on a foreign market. This law should also define monopolies, primarily on a vertical level, because you have a situation where hypermarkets buy, i.e. buy businesses, and that as owners of these companies are exclusively held in their hypermarkets, and that small producers are not in a position to place their goods because the requirements are most often for delayed payments, which reach even six months, disastrous for them, because they have to take very expensive loans and literally go into inequality. When it comes to the distance of the hypermarket from the city centre, it is settled in a large number of European countries, and I think we should have some clear attitude, a clearer policy, and in that case we should have some conclusion of the ministry and local self-government, because the difference between local self-government is very large. As I just missed to say, that 2,000-square square may be big for Belgrade, it may be big for Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, but for a large number of small municipalities that have twenty, 30,000 inhabitants, you will see that these large companies that have opened up markets with surfaces that may be below 1,000 squares. It was supposed to have some progressive rock. You can't treat Belgrade the same way and Jagodina, Mupria, Paracino, because they're much smaller environments and that rock had to be, as I said, progressive. In the smaller environments, conditions for the opening of such hypermarkets had to be a significantly smaller area. I'd say a few more words, when it comes to small merchants, you've completely ignored them in this bill. I don't see any concern. General entrepreneurship in this country doesn't have any concerns about entrepreneurship, because one dogmatic consciousness still feels. I just heard from one of my colleagues saying that these little stores are selling dirty goods, selling day-to-day perishable goods. Even in this House you can see the humiliation of entrepreneurship, and a large number of these people literally make ends meet, works for very small incomes, and we should have, as Parliamentarians, at least much more respect for those people who struggle daily to survive from the early morning. What, you didn't make any suggestions, and I'm guessing that the strategy should deal with this issue – what are you going to do with the inequity of small businesses? You have over 10,000, at least 10,000 current STRs that do not meet their obligations, which are late with payments from 40 to 60 days. It's important to affect the wholesale. You have the fact that they don't have enough trade capital, that the loans that you gave for liquidity during the previous year were mostly taken by large systems, large enterprises, and because of the necessary paperwork, small entrepreneurs, even medium-sized enterprises, were not in a position to obtain these favourable credit funds. Everything that's done is done in favor of the big ones, and almost nothing in favour of the little ones. Buying power and a weak range, that's what a small economy is today. It's enough to get into any store and see what stock they have, which is the value of these goods, and when you look at the criminal policy that you've designed with this law, a good part of these stores, if you'd sold everything they have, even if it were theirs, and most often taken on a delay, you wouldn't have to cover these penalties that you prescribed through criminal policy. The fact is that the small stores were primarily going to shut down the moment you lifted the checks, abolished the delayed payment, when you transferred everything to payment cards. They don't have a chance to pay any late payments to their customers most often, and when you've introduced a VAT, where you've charged their taxes in advance, even if you've given the goods to them on delayed payments, they must first meet their obligations to the state. The state is the most important, and the entrepreneurship, the economy, let them manage as they know and know. I'd say that you couldn't let entrepreneurs determine whether they were going to work overtime or not. It has to be regulated by laws, it can't even be a matter of local self-government. It usually falls over the back and on the burden of the employees themselves, who already have a salary of 15-20,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42916	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42917	If you'll excuse me, I'll just end up in one sentence. There's a lot to be said about criminal policy, but I'd like to say that a law like this that's unsettled by SNS is not satisfied and you won't have support when the day of the vote comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42918	The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by Parliament of People Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I will address you, since the minister is not here, yesterday you said in the debate when we spoke about the Rules of Procedure that the biggest problem in this country is the lack of procedures and regulations. I think there's a bigger problem, and the bigger problem is the rules we have today in the debate in front of the MPs, regulations that have such a character that their application is objectively questioned. When such a regulation comes to parliament, and it is not the first time that we have such a regulation before us MPs, then those representing the Government must find a measure to defend or represent this law. That's what I said in the process of discussing the law that Minister Dulic was defending here, and here it is now repeating itself. I didn't get a chance to listen to Mr Milosavljevic this morning, but I did listen to a few fellow MPs representing the congregation majority. When you listen to them, you really have an idea that this is a law I don't know. That measure must exist, and the measure must exist because it does not make one law a modern and normative step forward the fact that you have installed the word "measurening" in it. The laws are modern and appropriate times if all those who understand them and participate in the market, because here they talk about the Law on Trade, everything they write here understand. This law is not like that, and the ministry gentlemen can't say it, I have to tell them, they laugh all day, they laugh at opposition MPs for their comments and words, but I'm afraid this law is written by people who experience Serbia from ministerial chairs and cabinets, who are the spirit of time in which they don't understand, who are personally responsible for creating such conditions both on the market and on time. One law on trade can only be good if it writes or its participation in its writings that a man who has felt the cruelty of market inspection or who has felt all the weakness of a state that cannot protect him, and you who view the state and the market and life from Germany, from the ministry building, can afford to send something like this to the Assembly and to mock criticism. This is why we live in Serbia today as we live and we all feel fat on our skin. What did you do? That's what you wrote here. You have defined three laws, a total of 150 and a few members, and you have brought them down to one law with 80 members. Then you defined in over 15 members that not the government, but that the minister would regulate some things and relationships with his acts. Then you have a law that, we are convinced, unfortunately, neither those who sell nor those who trade will understand it properly, nor will those who will exercise market control in our country, to whom this law applies. Now watch this, what are the objectives of the law? Among other things, suppressing the so-called. The gray market. Do you really believe in these three laws, which you have derogated, you didn't have enough mechanisms to contain the gray market? That's not true, you did, but you didn't have the political will to do it. Today, even less in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there is this political will. Why? Because the vast majority of those who, unfortunately, make a gray market in Serbia, you have forced cars into street gigs, and I don't know what weights, because as a state you haven't been able to give them a job, to create conditions for them to get jobs, to protect them in procedures when they were out of work, to force those who were fired from the state to settle their obligations. The only difference is that today people who are on liquor and street gigs and on their cars are more educated than they used to be, because they're mostly people with higher and higher schools or a lot of them. After all, by closing your eyes to the fact that there is a gray market in Serbia, you buy social peace and, unfortunately, cheap political points. For the SRS, the things you boast about and mention this law are essentially things that you can objectively question whether this law will give effect in application. What do you say - decentralisation? Now trusted business will be given to local self-government. We've said here a hundred times that you've destroyed local self-government. How? Because you haven't raised the administrative capacity, so that local self-government can be adequately dealt with, among other things, with these entrusted transactions that you will only commit through this law. Do you know what the profile of municipal inspectors will be to deal with confidential affairs under this law? It is knowledge and understanding of the spirit of the time in which you live, but it does not touch you, and you do not care. With my colleagues and associates from the municipality from which I come for a year, I have been speaking from one ministry to another, and most of all to your ministry, to force a public company in the municipality of Surdulic to return prices. You write from month to month the solutions you give them orders to do it, and they won't do it. Insolence and pride. We're being sent to the government from one ministry to another. There are regulations and laws, but there is one weakness that you promote above all else and now you assure us that this is a true decentralisation and you trust serious affairs to local self-government. That's the advantage of this law. Do you know who's going to deal with these things tomorrow on behalf of local self-government, what is the human capacity of the people who are going to do it? In the end, you say nice – training. You will train these civil servants at a local level for two years and two years we will wait for us to feel the effects of this law. That's why you have to find a measure when you talk about this law. More measures have been found today by the opposition, although it has been a fierce criticism than those who have promoted and represented or spoke in favor of this law. Obviously, the spirit of the time you live in, at least when it comes to the market, you don't understand. What you say - the essential part of the law is the conditions for carrying out the traffic of goods and services, especially the conditions prescribed by special regulations, that I do not quote them now. You listed it here in principle and you entrusted it all to the Minister, 33 powers, over 15 members, I don't know how many. It's not the government's sublaws, it's the direct minister. Then what does this law say? Market participants can only assume. You know how much it reads, how many traders or sellers read the regulations. They will read market inspectors about the nature of the business, those who want to work, who are not harassed by corrupt bosses and chiefs, from Pcinj County to Saturday. You boast about the study, you introduce that you have to do the study. We're not entirely questioning it, it really should have some concept, some development document, but it could have made sense five or ten years ago, but it didn't bother you at the time. You know why? Because those who made these big malls over 2,000 square meters were clapping on the ministers' shoulders, and the ministers were impromptu to cut ribbons, to collect political points. Then because of such an indolent and service relationship, permanent market disturbances in Serbia have been made and are now looking for a study. All the next ones will be looking for it. I ask you - according to which development documents will compare these development studies, since you are talking about regional even development here? Will you balance the market? In accordance with what development documents? In line with the development documents under the Regional Development Act or the plans Mr Krasic was just talking about? We've been waiting for all this for years, because none of this country has yet to provide. Finally, another agency with a mouthful of restrictive public spending and taking on obligations towards various international institutions, except that you have not yet had the courage to write that it is a public agency but a commission, a council or a centre, but will be defined under the Law on Public Agencys. Unfortunately, the SRS does not fully recognise the whole extent of market participants, nor can we estimate that any substantial and even formal changes in the Serbian market will take place after its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42920	Ten minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, and after that, the messenger of the people, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the adoption of this law has long been announced, and the public has been presented as a bill whose work made it difficult to reconcile all interests, but to give priority to consumers. Otherwise, the analysis of the effects given at the end of the bill states that two groups of entities directly or indirectly affected by the solutions contained in this law: traders and consumers. After careful analysis, we in the SRS believe that there was an intention to give priority to consumers. However, several arguments in the light of the provisions of this law suggest that some other interests were also taken into account. Something that really does not have a major impact on the consumer's interest, which in his discussion has already started to speak by a colleague, Stevanovic, is part of the bill that refers to the promotion of trade. More specifically, this is where the establishment of a mall for the development of trade will be envisaged to carry out the tasks assigned to it as entrusted. The establishment and operation of the centre will be subject to rules governing public agencies. The SRS Parliament Club pointed out whenever agencies, centres and similar bodies were established that they were parallel to the state bodies recognised by the Constitution, that they should not be set up, because all the tasks placed on them under jurisdiction can be carried out within the legitimate state bodies, within individual sectors of the relevant ministries. However, the establishment of all these agencies, centres and similar agencies is very desirable for the representatives of the authorities, because then the newly formed body has a director, deputy director, board of directors and supervisory boards and, as a rule, everyone is extremely well paid. I have read more than once from this pay phone that the government has published on its website, which refers to the enormously high reception of public agency officials. I'm not going to repeat them now, but I'm going to say that it's 355,205 dinars, 344.149 dinars, 322.598 dinars, etc., noting that not everyone has supplied the information to the government. As far as we know, no one is sanctioned for not delivering the requested data. When a trade development centre is established, Serbian citizens will have on the budget a second managing apparatus. Just to remind you that a law on the reduction of the number of employees has been passed, both in the state and local administration. The SRS, when adopting these laws, warned not to adopt such laws because it is time for the economic crisis, not to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis, but only to increase unemployment because these people have nowhere else to work. And now the government is facing a problem that it itself has created, where to take care of some of these people who need to be fired or fired, and they're starting these services again? We have submitted amendments to this part of the law that we have proposed to give up the establishment of the centre, but not the promotion of trade, and that trade promotions are done within the competent ministry. As for the other groups of entities that this law will have an impact on traders, the following aspects are very important. This bill makes it appear that market inspection has a new role to play, to move from the penalty system to the system of regular controls that would play an advisory role. However, such a thing would be difficult on the perfect market, and only on our market do I think it will really not be feasible. The minister won't mind me quoting his statement, a few sentences in the things that apply to this - in the work of market inspection, the accent will no longer be on punishment but on prevention and education; inspections will be announced, because our aim is to force entrepreneurs into legal business. There would be no surprise in a legal state like this, but in Serbia where there is no sign of the rule of law, this can only represent one ground for many abuses. Another detail that has been discussed a lot in the public presentation of this law, and colleagues before me who have spoken have devoted a lot of time. It is about regulating the business of commercial formats and making an impact study on the structure of the market which will have to make all trading formats greater than 2,000 square meters. Such studies will reportedly show whether the arrival of a large trader will affect and choke small and medium-sized people. This alleged concern is actually going to be just one more piece of paper. What I would especially like to point out is Article 6(1), which reads: "The market of the Republic of Serbia is unique and comprehensive". This definition will, of course, be welcomed by all those who are at any moment seeking to respect the Constitution and the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. However, we all know that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia there are so-called. administrative crossings towards Kosovo and Metohija and applying new measures at the Eulex customs crossings. This includes photocopying documents of all commercial vehicles, driving licences, commercial licences and other accompanying documents for goods transported through these administrative crossings. EULEX then stamps documents and they are forwarded to local officials in Kosovo and Serbia's customs. The government of the Republic of Serbia has freed all goods entering the KIM from the territory of Serbia from a further value tax, but the same goods if they move from northern Kosovo to the southern part are taxed with 16% and another 10% of customs that flows into Kosovo's budget. All private companies in the entire KIM territory must be registered in the business register of the state of Serbia and in the economic register of the so-called "KIM". Governments in Pristina. Otherwise, unless a legal standard of the Pristina authorities is respected, private citizens are sanctioned, at least as far as territory south of Ibra is concerned. When it comes to registration in central and southern Kosovo, it is subject to the laws of the Kosovo Ministry of Trade. According to a private entrepreneur from Gracanica, the private business in this part of Kosovo is extremely difficult because they are not direct customers from which they are mainly supplied from Serbia. They are unfortunately forced to buy goods from Albanians, as direct importers from Serbia, which is more expensive. If goods are placed on central Kosovo's territory or anywhere south of Ibra, it must be painted on a terminal in the southern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. For terminal processing costs, it is necessary to pay about 70 euros, with 10% of the value of the goods on customs and 16% of VAT being charged for goods not in the CEFTA system. For example, the value of the 5,000-euro goods is still around 1200 euros. If the goods that are painted remain in Kosovo, the tax duties remain on the Kosovo budget, and if the goods in the final or semi-final product from Kosovo return to Serbia or any other country, Pristina is returning VAT in the form of relief, but not in full amount. The said position of Article 6, meaning attitude 1, should guarantee the government's determination that the Republic of Serbia's market is truly comprehensive and that everything I have stated, which was actually the words of private entrepreneurs from the KIM territory, the application of this law will be the past. Otherwise, it could only be understood as a declaration of government's commitment to the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42922	Nine minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, for the SRS is unacceptable for several reasons, not with a negative-legal aspect, because we have tabled certain amendments by correcting the provisions of this law in a normative and legal sense, but from a social aspect, from a trade aspect, an economic and financial aspect, all of what I will try to elaborate in this presentation. Namely, the SRS estimate that this law was ordered by a monopoly in the commercial sector. Who are the monopolies in the trading sector? Those who bought the social enterprises of Budas, who formed their trade chains and who today draw beret out of everything that was once social, state, common, and today it is privatized, private, in which this country's influence is very small. What is important from the public aspect, we must say that in this area a strategy on the development of trade has been adopted, and that is good. It may be one of the few areas where the strategy was adopted. However, the strategy was developed for two years and it seems to me that the government adopted in 2009, before the actual strategy ended. What's important about that strategy? It has shown operationally all the problems in this area, but also all the essential indicators that are important to the trade itself, both large and small. However, there are no real developments in domestic trade. When I say domestic trade, we must extract from all of this those systems that have come here with the lobbyist moves of the current government since 2000 and beyond, and today they hold primate in trade in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What are those chains? These are mostly those trade chains from the region that felt the market. Sometimes the best shows this sentence that I will say, spoken by Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, why trade chains, why companies, why business entities from Slovenia come to this market? He says – don't be surprised, the cheapest capital is currently in Serbia, it's the easiest thing to get to the market today and enter the market in Serbia, which is why they came. It is the basic concept of why it comes to Serbia's market. It's not a problem coming, and they should come, and they should invest, and they should work, they should do, but the state must have aspects of control, taxation and must have a clear picture to show for this strategy. Above all, this strategy is not adequately designed, it has no real indicators of the development of domestic trade and there are no real indicators of how to stop the negative tendencies in this area. What's important to point out is that we lost our domestic trade in transition. Our chains that worked until 2005, 2006 and 2007, and even today there are certain enterprises in this area that are in bankruptcy, which are being run as social enterprises in bankruptcy, are not privatised, coutures with labour, traffic, etc. What is the essence of this transition? The point is, we lost our own self-loathing in the area of trade. What's a suicide? We have lost the opportunity to place on an equal footing a domestic product through chains where they are owners of domestic companies and chains where a major influence has foreign capital, or where foreign legal persons are concerned. By unilaterally applying the Transition Trade Agreement, we have not only lost customs duties, the SRS tells you about this year, about the negative effects of unilateral application of this agreement, not only customs, but we have opened the market with one-sided application, reducing customs duties, we have allowed products that are far cheaper to come to the domestic market. Why? Because they have subsidies in countries where they come from. They have various funds, incentive funds to be given to exporters. Unfortunately, Serbian companies do not have these subsidies. These companies that come to our market monopolize certain forms of trade and push out the domestic producer of the badge, agreedly, etc., as they do on markets that are free, which are unprotected, by various measures, economic, financial, administrative and other measures. This prevents domestic products from being placed on the market. If, in a unilateral application of the trade agreement, we lost in an income sense, in a fiscal sense, 350m euros, which is around 28-29 billion 2008, and this year, a similar situation is happening, maybe it won't be that amount, we'll see what the effects in fiscal terms will be, in a customs sense, in the collection of customs revenues in 2010 are far more negative. SRS estimates say up to a billion and a half domestic goods cannot be placed on the market. Why? Because companies are insolvent, they become insolvent, they come into blockades, they come into bankruptcy, etc., we shut down domestic production. This prevents domestic products from entering trade chains and today we have fewer and fewer domestic products on the market. Those are the basic reasons. What's more important to emphasize? What is currently in these 10 years is that we increased trade participation in GDP from somewhere in 2001 that was 6%, in 2008 it was 11%. Last year, it was about 10%. This year, it is far less expected, given the decrease in turnovers, to reduce trade participation in GDP, so some of our estimates are between 8-9%. What's the result of that increase from 6 to 11%? The interest of foreign trade chains that come to our market, the construction of hypermarkets, supermarkets, large chains that have come to our market. So they monopolized our companies that were in the area, and on the other hand, our industry captured them, and everything they didn't find interesting, they kicked them out of the market. That's just the result, it's not the result of some elaborate state policy that has driven trade, traffic development through various measures and which has led to this increase in trade in GDP. What should we be worried about? It's that we have today, these are data from the Chamber of Commerce, I was at a meeting in the Chamber of Commerce where they said that today's business premises inside and every other business space is normally closed, in Belgrade it's somewhere every third etc., that kind of stopping the trade blockades will continue. For the sake of time, only two more sentences relating to problems in the field of the gray economy. The grey economy in 2008 is four billion. It's government estimates, business assessment and certain institutes. In 2008, we have eight billion euros, in 2009, we have 10 billion. It's a 2010 question. That's more than 30% of GDP. Neither taxes nor contributions are paid. Therefore, this law offers no solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42924	Ten minutes of MP time was used. The SRS parliamentary group is currently available for 26 minutes. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42925	Ladies and gentlemen, the basic purpose of this law is to regulate the situation in the area of trade, to provide business owners with better conditions for business, to provide consumers with better service and goods, and to better working conditions for workers working in commercial businesses. I'll talk about these last two categories. As for consumers, the current economic situation in Serbia is such that most of them only God can help. Facts are that the number of customers who enter the store every day is getting smaller, and that the number of those unfortunate people who search for food and other things are going through containers, by waste every day, is increasing. According to official data, more than half a million people in Serbia live below the poverty line. People literally have nothing to eat. Of which, each eight survives between 60 and 70 thousand thanks to popular cuisines. I'm saying this to point out that this law does not apply to them, because as most of the other laws we adopt will have no consequences for their standard of living, in their way of life. They simply don't have the money to buy and trade, so they are not qualified to be under that consumer category, as it stands in this bill. To change that, for them and other Serbian citizens to be better off, it is necessary to start a business and create new jobs. However, we are witnessing that neither one of us is in sight. Instead of new jobs and fulfilling old promises, citizens are getting new promises from the current government. I remind you that before the 2007 presidential elections, the current government has promised to employ more than 200,000 people if it receives citizens' trust. Before the 2008 parliamentary elections, the promise was also repeated, and as a result, we have the fact that after two years of working the government without a job in Serbia, more than 200,000 workers remain. In addition to reducing the purchasing power of citizens, the current bad situation in the area of trade is largely due to poor privatisation and the wrong external trade orientation in our country. In the privatisation process, most of the companies and chains became the property of several people, various Miskovics and Subotics, who thus provided a complete monopoly on the Serbian market, allowing them to dictate their own prices and determine their own profits. They can make as much money as they want. This privatisation destroyed several thousand small and medium-sized companies, leaving several tens of thousands of people out of work. Another mistake is the full opening of the Serbian market primarily for textile, food and technology, goods from abroad, and without the protection measures for domestic products being established. Here, first of all, I mean agricultural products. As a consequence, we have the fact that we import food from abroad to an excessive extent. Here I have one piece of paper from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management since 17 February 2009 which says that last year Serbia imported $65.325,000 of meat, and now there's even more interesting data, a $2530-ton tomato worth $24,000,000, a stocking of $2,280-tonnes worth of $768,000, watch out, Serbia imported 3,600 tonnes of potatoes worth $831, an apple we imported only $17,780-tonnes and therefore paid $7 million, and a plum of $580-tonnes and $280,000, respectively. I'm going to illustrate these consequences with an example from the textile industry. You know that Serbia had an extremely strong textile industry that employs 200,000 people. The products of the Serbian textile industry were highly appreciated, competitive in all markets of the world. Since we opened up, we have the consequence that the Serbian textile industry practically does not exist. I will take this opportunity to say a few words about the position of workers working in the trade sector. In Serbia, there are some 400,000 workers working in the trade sector, of which at least every tenth works wild, has not been reported, so there is no pension, disability and health insurance. Otherwise, as far as workers' rights are concerned, Serbia cannot too much be raised to protect workers, however, the situation is nowhere more difficult than in the area of trade. Most store workers work for extremely small wages, which are sometimes so miserable that they really insult human dignity. People work without a certain working time, without a job description, so they are obliged to do everything the boss tells them to do, but people have no choice for reasons why there are more than a million people behind them who want to take their place. I'll give you a few examples from the community I come from, from the Great Plan. At the town market in the Great Plana, workers earn 15,000 dinars in 30 days of work. So, they work every day, including Saturday and Sunday from 6:30 to about 2:30 p.m., earning 15,000 dinars, and that's considered a good salary in the Great Plan. In Chinese shops, there are eight in the municipality, workers work for a fee of 6,000 to 13,000 dinars. While I'm at Chinese stores, it's interesting that he works there about 40 or 50 workers, and if he doesn't have any men, it's probably one piece of information that needs to be analyzed, which is probably why it's so, probably working conditions. A month ago, I was talking about the difficult conditions in which workers work three of the biggest commercial companies in the Great Plan, these are: "Mana Traffic" from Krnjev, "Coca" from Smedereva and "Pax Market", I think that's what it's called, from Paracino. Just what I was saying, I'm going to illustrate on the Pax Market case, if that's what this company is called. I'm saying this for a reason because I talked to the workers who work there yesterday and they don't know what their company is called. Their explanation is that every month or two, the company has certain obligations to the state, according to suppliers, and obligations cannot be met, the company goes into blockade, the gyro-account is blocked, the boss simply changes the name of the company and continues to work. Now what's very interesting is, it's about working relationships, but it's about this topic today, it's about a dozen workers and they've had a salary of around 15,000 dinars. About a month ago, the owner set up an ultimatum for them to work for free in the future. When he was asked why, he gave the following explanation. He found that since the new year, there has been a deficit in the company's 800,000 dinar store, it seems to me, don't hold my word, and he's asking all employees to compensate for it in solidarity. This could also be accepted in some ways, however, the problem is that he is asking for equal participation of those workers who worked there from January 1st to today and those workers who have been working there for only two months. In order to protect workers, above all in the area of trade, we asked the competent ministry to be one of the labour inspectors who is based in Smederjevska Palanca, and Smederjevska Palanka is slightly larger than the Municipality of Velika Plana, to transfer one of these inspectors to the Great Plan. We from the municipality offered a free office, we offered to equip this office with a computer, a phone, to bear all the costs of work, we even offered to pay for the costs of daily transport, but we did not find understanding. Here, once again, I urge Minister Milosavljevic to invest his authority in the government to resolve this problem because without the permanent presence of the inspector of the work in the Great Plan, the workers I'm talking about now simply have no basis to believe that their position will be better than it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42926	Nine minutes have been used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. There are 18 minutes available to the parliamentary group. After him, MP Momir Markovic and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I listened to your opening statement, I feel like you don't live in Serbia. The very statements by our prime minister and resolution ministers -- that we are coming out of the crisis, that it will be much better for all Serbian citizens, are simply not covered by any single fact. Here we have today, Mr. Minister, the law on trade in parliament. You said it would improve the environment or that it should improve the environment in Serbia, make more foreign investments, attract as many foreign investments as possible, that all market participants should be equal, that they will gain far greater market stability and supply and that you want better co-operation in any case with local self-government. It is true that Serbian citizens are very hard to live. Do you know that a huge number of our citizens get up every morning with a bigger problem than they lay down? Will this law also contribute to simply making our citizens live better, so that they can afford basic things, first of all, to their children? Will this law, which will only be applied on 31.12.2011, affect above all to ensure market stability and will it succeed in increasing the purchasing power of our citizens? It won't be safe. The SRS believes that one of the types of state policy and the segment of agriculture, namely our agriculture and the village, should be of great importance and that they can be far more involved in the overall economic development of our country. Agriculture represents the most significant business branch in our system and participates with about 20%. The fact is that Serbia has good resources and conditions for the development of a variety of agricultural production, but it is also a fact that our farmers do not have the opportunity to just move from primary agricultural production to a variety of, let's say, organic production, which is certainly some perspective. We have extremely suitable land and conditions that we can contribute much more than this 20%. The SRS believes that this can be better with a more correct and more serious relationship primarily with the Ministry of Agriculture towards our agricultural producers and the agricultural sector. You increase the subsidy year by about 2,000 dinars on average. If I'm not mistaken, it was 10,000, then 12,000, now 14,000, but it's absolutely not enough. It is not enough that the unilateral application of the trade agreement directly affected our agriculture in a very, very unpredictable position, not to say, catastrophic. The fact is, our farmers can't invest everything they should give to a particular culture in order to make the best of it. I'll just give you a few examples. The consumption of mineral fertilisers has been significantly reduced in the last five to six years, we all know that. The state is trying to help our farmers in some way, especially when it comes to autumn sowing. In the last two years, you've subsidized artificial mineral fertilizer with 10,000 dinars per tonne, but because of the public, our citizens, I have to say that in both cases only three companies have reported. It's the Fertil of Backa Palanca. It's a fertilizer factory from Subotica and Pancheva. Eighty percent of the quantity was delivered by Fertile from Backa Palanca. It's a pure monopoly, and we know it's Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic's firm. That's how you only load a fat goose, so you favor the company that you want, and what's certainly the fact that ten days after that, the Russian 16 got to our market, where it was more expensive for just one dinar. That's for sure, Mr. Minister. Since you were Minister of Agriculture, I'd like you to answer my question...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42928	People's MP, the accent is on the bill. He was a minister of agriculture, now he's a minister of trade and services. Please, there are good forecasts from MPs I cannot quote, so please, on the agenda is the proposal for a law on trade, which was submitted by the minister of trade and services, whatever he was before he was now a minister of trade and services. I'm really asking you. Agenda, Article 107, Minister of Trade and Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42929	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I asked Mr. Milosavljevic as Minister of the Government of Mr. Cvetkovic, current Minister of Trade, and as former Minister of Agriculture, and I think it is competent to answer absolutely all these questions. I'm talking about trade and agricultural products. (President: National MP, agenda – Article 107, Minister of Trade and Proposal for a Law on Trade. Please. Thank you. All right. I think Mr. Milosavljevic as Minister of Trade can answer me who imported the milk powder? At that time, a large number of our dairy producers went into huge loans primarily to increase their herds of best intentions to expand production, to employ as many members of their family as possible, so that as many people as possible remain to work in the country. And what's a fact, when these loans were granted through the Development Fund, and I'm not talking about commercial banks, the price of milk was 28 to 32 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42930	People's MP, we don't seem to understand each other. On the agenda is a proposal for a law on trade, you and I are bound by a Article 107 which implies that a MP must speak about what is on the agenda. The government's present representative is Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, Minister of Trade and Services. I ask MP Vitomir Plužarevic not to throw it away. Now, I warn you that throwing away is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the basis for a warning. I try without saying that I care about order and I refer to the MP as reading the Rules of Procedure, that the parliamentary issues are when the government is present, on the last Thursday of the month, and that every Tuesday and Thursday you can ask questions, and that you are now obliged to speak on the basis of Article 107 of the agenda – the proposal for a law on trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42931	All right, Mrs. Comić, but I really don't understand, I'm talking about importing powdered milk, our milk production, I really don't understand why you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42932	I'm warning you now. The proposal for a law on trade, now or you want me to apply measures to punish MPs who violate the provisions, or you don't know what the content of the Law on Trade is and whether internal and external trade is in the same sector in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or whether you insist on showing that all you want is to mock the procedure, to violate the reputation of the National Assembly and not respect the National Assembly. Choose what is at stake or return on the basis of a member of the 107th agenda, or a proposal for a law on trade. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42933	All right, well, let's move on. We need to secure price stability on our market and I had the opportunity to hear when the minister called on our citizens to buy exclusively domestically. We've had opportunities to hear that there's no import lobby here, and certainly there's a fact that we have in the agrarian as well as in the other segments, that we have a pharmaceutical mafia, so it's getting wider and this agrarian mafia that holds a monopoly on imports, and above all, I mean imports of chicken, juniper, pork, milk powder, soy shotgun, modified. So I'd like you to explain to me that there is no monopoly, when it is known that Monsanto is increasingly breaking through this market and that he is certainly present on our market and we are convinced that no one can stand in his way. We're free of the law we won on organic production when we import all of this, and our barns and our barns are getting emptyer and emptyer. You spoke here about both Croatian companies and our workers. It's true, but it used to work 500, a thousand workers, and today there are 200 and many of them are closed. The problem is that you sold our natural resources. Today the minister also said about mineral water, it was bought by Agrokor from Croatia, but what is a problem, he buys our fertile farmland. Right now, what we have is knowledge in the SRS, close to 30,000 ha of land, which in Planta, which in Agraro, Diamond Zrenjanin, I don't think you should have allowed it at all. No country in the environment has ever allowed such a thing. Before signing the EU accession agreement, which you are constantly calling upon, you have decided that five years can't alienate absolutely anything and be sold to foreign citizens. You didn't respect that. What is certainly a fact, which is that Serbian citizens do not want to live in this environment, especially in the environment in the last ten years, and we are sure that the only way for our citizens to live better is for you to go the way you came.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42934	Ten minutes of time spent by the parliamentary group, measuring the time of ten minutes. The time measured was 11 minutes and 44 seconds, which we all witnessed in the screen. So, ten minutes were used by the MPs' group, and the minute and 44 seconds you saw on the screen, it was because of the attempts, i.e. I agree to agree to talk about the agenda. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42935	Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Komic, you were the roughest person to speak, while your colleague Prelic was speaking, in violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and all three positions of this member. We're used to you trying to get MPs to focus on what they need to say about some bill, some amendment. You cannot accept the fact that every MP can speak in a way that he considers to convince the minister, to convince the assembly majority to accept a particular suggestion, or that the MP must have the opportunity to explain the topic on the agenda in the way he thinks he should explain it. Mrs. Comic, we were both in parliament and you and I when the MPs of the Parliament were silent in front of the assembly, which is also the legitimate right of the MP. So, to stand up and to remain silent for as long as is foreseen for the parliamentary group or the MP in agreement with the parliamentary group. Mrs. Komic, Vice President of the National Assembly, I ask you to admit once in your life that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I don't know how you could have let yourself tell Mr. Prelych that he doesn't know what the bill says. Mrs. Komic, it is an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, it is an address to the MP with the absence of respect...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42936	Two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of Article 104. When and if I make a mistake, as it was, there will be no problem in saying that I was wrong. I'm referring you to reading the stenogram. National MP Dobrislav Prelic was first asked... National MP Vitomir Plužarevic throws the third time. I'm giving you a heads-up about obstruction of work. So, MP Dobrislav Prelic, in the eighth minute of his presentation, was asked to stop addressing the participants of the session, Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, as Minister of Agriculture, because he did not. He was, but now he's not. At the same time, he was asked to dedicate at least one sentence to the agenda, since in the eighth minute of his presentation, he did not dedicate any of the proposals to the law on trade. National MP Dobrislav Prelic insisted that he violate the Rules of Procedure. My desire to take care of order still happens without telling the reminders does not come across co-operation. If you wish the order in the Assembly to be carried out exclusively by giving criminal measures, I am at your disposal, as well as by a national MP who insisted that he be thrown and violated by the Rules of Procedure, because he does not consider that the provision laid down in Article 104 is prohibited. All your comments can be seen that you have incorrectly explained your insight into the stenographic presentation of MP Dobrislav Prelic. None of the only sentences he had in his presentation were related to the proposal for a trade law. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on Article 100(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42937	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but primarily the citizens of Serbia, as the chairman said, is a difficult violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and it is difficult to disrupt the Djindjic family's dignity by making false statements and statements regarding the property situation of Ms. Ruzica Djindjic. Mr. Dobrislav Prelic was deliberately...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42938	Members of the Parliament, I can violate the Rules of Procedure, so I ask that in my statement in accordance with Article 1 of the 100th, you say which provision of the Rules of Procedure I have violated, that is to say, in violation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42939	I didn't mean you, I meant Mr. Prelych.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42940	Then there can't be a measure of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. People's MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or do you want a word in a row? The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will not criticise Minister Milosavljevic for the part relating to agriculture because he is the minister of trade, but when the Agriculture Act is discussed I will certainly mention Minister Milosavljevic for the part for which he is responsible. Of course, I don't think he's responsible for the situation either, specifically for the chaos on the Serbian market now because he inherited a lot of things. The market is a state resource and every state takes care of it. The moment we decided, and it seems to me that Minister Milosavljevic was not a minister at the time, that we were unilaterally applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that moment the market was open and literally allowed to merge into Serbia's market and thus invaluable damage was done to the citizens of Serbia and Serbia. Citizens on the one hand as producers, because they could not cope with the unfair competition that appeared on our market at the moment and consumers who also could not resist the unquality, much praised products that had come from that Western market, mainly from the Western market, and those products that are not sold in the trade chains in the West. I've had a chance to look at what's being sold in the trade chains in Belgium, for example, and it's not that stuff, although it's from Belgium, which is coming to our market. Therefore, the law must protect both producers and consumers, and this law does not work. On the other hand, the law must protect competition, and this law does not work. However, in the settlement in which I live, competition is very developed, on the one hand is Delta, on the other side of the Maxie Discont, with the third "Tempo", so here you go, will you go to the other store. The accident is only "Delta", and "Maxi" and "Tempo" - owner of Miskovic. I wonder how many percent of the market in Serbia is held by Miskovic and how many percent of the government, or how many of the ministers are held by Miskovic? In particular, I ask about political parties, both in power and in opposition, because many here have boasted that they had coffee with Miskovic, and now I wonder what else they got with coffee? Meanwhile, Miskovic sold the bank, and he held the bank, and some of them borrowed credit and the SRS owed to the suffocation, with incredible interest, the credit was raised, and we are paying off the loan day and day. They're gone now, washed their hands, and now they're clean. I wonder what they got with that coffee with Miskovic? On the other hand, this same Miskovic, I have friends of suppliers, suppliers of Miskovic's chains, because he has three or four chains of distribution, which he does not pay for nine months, per year of invoice. I think it's the Ministry's obligation to take a little peek and see how he treats those of whom he gets goods, and that's import goods, and they're meant to place over it. I wonder, I'm not asking the minister not to get a warning, what about protecting citizens from criminals who own chains? We've been waiting as recently as thunder from the blue sky for Pevec's arrest. Now we can also expect the owners of Idea or Tulsa, as they are already called distribution centres and chains of commercial firms, to be arrested and only then to have the state of Serbia react. How many more of these singers or singers are corning on our market, who's protecting them, I wonder, and how much is he protecting them? Mr. Minister, you wrote very nicely in the declaration law, but I wonder if you or the gentlemen sitting next to you, you don't believe that you entered the shops, you don't have time, that your wife does, but once you stop by and look at the declarations of those products that are there, so you'll see how many of those are with "E," so behind that comes the number E13, E14, E18, etc. Look what those markings mean. Not only is it unskilled, but also in health the harmful goods are marked, although very petty that they can't even read with glasses, but they're on the declaration. The ministry must force manufacturers to make the declaration clear and unequivocally read and to tell the customer what the consumer is referring to. This law does not protect itself from unconscious sellers and opens the door for goods of suspicious and poor quality, and even goods dangerous to health. Why didn't you use this law, why didn't the Ministry even bother to ban the production and sale of genetically modified organisms in Serbia? I remind you that the Ministry of Agriculture, it seems to me that you were a minister at the time, pre-arrested several dozen acres of genetically modified soybean in the area of Capca, and it's an honor. But it didn't go any further to see who it was that sold that peasant genetically modified seed. It did not go any further to establish that punishment, and it was the strictest. Because, let me remind you, those who consume genetically modified soybeans do not only harm their health and their organism, which is the worst of all, damage to the organisms of those descendants who will only come into the world after that, because the genome is drastically changing. Science has established, and this seems to me to be more of Dulicka's cabinets, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, in one of those governments after "the revolution's bulldozer". Let me remind you, we were at the time proving that she was going to Zagreb once a month and then on a plane from Zagreb to Monsanto, by commission and by instructions on how to proceed. Today, we have many products that are genetically modified and that are health-threatening. However, I don't want to remind you of those 100,000, two times fifty thousand tons of genetically modified soybeans, which we got as a gift from the United States, so we processed it into "Blood Product" and sold it as cattle food. The meat of those animals that ate livestock food infected with genetically modified soybeans is health-threatening and the question is how many people were poisoned and infected at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42942	People's MP, and I invite you to article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42943	Let me finish my thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42944	About the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42945	Article 64 doesn't make sense. I'll read it. It only makes sense one, and that is the final position of this article: "If an evaluation of an expert assessor determines that storage costs, i.e. holding and keeping certain confiscated goods in the time needed regularly to carry out sales by public competition, etc." And in the third article, he says, "The government can grant without compensation the goods of the First Article and the goods whose sale is not possible for humanitarian purposes, state bodies, cultural institutions, humanitarian organisations and other humanitarian aid users, as well as for other justifiable purposes." Mr. Minister, the goods you're taking, just this last position that you put in article 64 would be quite enough. The budget is filled with other means. There are very small funds that are collected and put into the budget this way. On the other hand, you have so many humanitarian organizations, organizations that care about people who are unable to take care of themselves, and I mean Zvecanska, and I mean homes where children are distracted in development, and I mean many other institutions, folk cuisines, which, after the "buldozer revolution", ever since the DOS came to power, it's blossoming...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-14-0.u42946	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93 want to do so. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) In that case, I am concluding a principled search, and that is what we are doing for today. We'll continue the work tomorrow. (Momir Markovic, from the post: The Minister was not given a word. People’s MPs claim that no word has been given to the minister. The minister didn't sign up to get the word. Whoever didn't sign up can't get a word. The principle of shock has been concluded. We will continue work tomorrow at 10:00 hours by discussing the amendment and addition of the Traffic Safety Act.
