ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45560	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of invitation to the sitting: pursuant to Article 90(1) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in addition to the representatives of the proposings of Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister and Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, invited the sittings to attend both Jovan Ćosic and Zlatko Petrovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Justice, Milivoe Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior and Zorica Loncar-Kasalica, Head of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Criminal Procedure (individuals) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković and Dragan Colić, then, MP Dragan Šormaz, National MP Boris Aleksić, joint MPs Cedomir Jovanović, Nestović, Nestavić, Nestavić, Nastavić, Mirić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić, Zadić Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that the time at hand to search the agenda points that were in the joint general search of 15 minutes for presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, and that the time of the principle debate, means the time of the debate behind the debate in particular, is a total of five hours. The representatives of the parliamentary groups are: LDP - National MP Judita Popovic, SPS-JS MP - National MP Milisav Petronijevic, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica - National MP Milica Radovic, G17 Plus MP Zeljko Ivanji and SRS Parliament Group - National MP Petar Jojic. I also remind the Government's representative that, according to the new provisions of our Rules of Procedure, the time that a representative has at his disposal is equal to the time that the MPs have. The legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search in particular, based on this basis, cannot be longer than three hours. We're moving on to a debate on the first amendment submitted. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have submitted an amendment to the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45561	On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, I accept this amendment. As I said, he contributes to the essence of the law and is in the spirit of amendments accepted by the RS government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45562	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Sormaz, with correction, MP Boris Aleksic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45563	I'll spend the time I have right away. I will not report for the other amendments, since all three amendments are attached. In relation to the whole text, it's enough to say just what we said and in the principle debate, that this is completely wrong and that it doesn't need to be changed. That is why I have given the amendment to this not-so-popular text, which is said to be deleted. I think we should remain an old law solution, not have changes to that part of the law proposed by the Ministry this way. I also said in the principle debate that the reason we have, de facto, this proposal to amend the law is to reduce the rights acquired by citizens, which is contrary to the European Charter of Human Rights and the Universal Declaration. They literally prohibit the adoption of new laws or parts of laws that are reducing the already reached degree of law. That's so clear. This is more than obvious. If we are already talking about the EU, if we are talking about European values, if we are talking about Serbia being a place in this great European family, and I think that it is and that we should pursue it, then we should not do these things. Secondly, this does not guarantee that violence will be prevented or, as some say, hooliganism on stadiums, on the streets of Belgrade, because whoever commits violence, who is willing to do so, will not stop for 30 days, as it has not been stopped by these eight days of detention. He won't be prevented from being punished for five, ten, twenty years, as he hasn't been prevented so far. Anyway, almost all of them, if not all of them, when they set out to do something like that, count on never being caught. We've got examples, as many as you want, we've got examples so far. That's why I don't think this is a solution at all. We have an example of Urosh Music. He went to the gendarmes with a torch, shoved it in his mouth. He's not the only one, there were more. He's being tried for that event. Unfortunately, he's still on trial. This happened on December 8, 2007. There's one conviction for ten years in prison, so then the appeal of his lawyers, well, like, he didn't know he was attacking an official person, so it's like a defense, I mean, 50-year-old man, what's he doing among the fans at 50? Of course it was also known that he knew he was a cop, but the court respected that, and it's been going on for years. What's the problem? If that were solved effectively, and there's all the material evidence, the footage of several televisions, witnesses, etc., if the court had solved it effectively, it probably wouldn't have happened to us either Bris Taton or all of this later. We wouldn't have to do it because of one derby and one average European game now, unfortunately, not the top-of-the-line it used to be, if we were quick to pass a bill like this, we wouldn't need it at all. During that time, at Nebojsa Trajkovic, who was injured, the whole society forgot. A man fights the disability he has alone. He's got a disability pension, no one's asking any more questions. Until this Urosh becomes a hero and his name is gnawing on the wall and day and day. Who's responding? As far as I can tell, football clubs aren't, and I think they're the most responsible for this. We got a statement yesterday in all the media, the Red Star football club agreed with the fans that there was no violence at the game to be played tomorrow. So they can agree with them, they can influence them, obviously, and we're looking for a background that stands behind a bully and argues through the media and makes a big noise about it. All that says is this doesn't have to be done at all and this isn't going to work out. We've got to do a community action, not make a problem right now. However, the reform of the judiciary has been apostrophe in the EU as the biggest problem at the moment for our path to the EU. No one mentions this violence, although you say it will be a distraction, as a government, in negotiations to join the EU. I've seen this report that Kacin was talking about, four points are mentioned, there's no mention of that violence anywhere, but justice reform is number one. We have a strike. It is not known whether you are negotiating or not with judicial employees. They don't accept the offer, you're counting that 40% of the 4,000 dinars are more than actually at 16,000, and we saw that yesterday. It's really a big crowd, in the wrong way, about something very important. I argue, this would not have happened if the judiciary had been more effective, if Uros Misic had been convicted in a quick and efficient way. It's been a year since the judicial reform, he's been convicted, and we still have cases like this. He has not yet been convicted, only has a first degree verdict. You remember I told you about the trials in Smederev. You've now apostrophe that the Supreme Court of Smeder is one of the worst, in that report I've seen, regarding the High Council of Justice. There's the same object... Here, the police are arresting for early retirement, disability. A process has been going on since 2005 in Smederev. I'm saying it's because it's about the deputy mayor. That's how we have this case. Then we have a repeat act. Of course we do. No one will be scared of eight days in custody, but ten years in prison will, and that is a creepy answer, if you're already using those terms. That's a creepy answer. Ten years in prison for someone 18 years old is creepy. When he gets out of prison, what happens when he's 28? What's the matter with his life? It's a terrible punishment and it just needs to be applied. But we don't apply it, and then we make these mistakes and these kind of bill that's going to hurt the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45564	National MP Dragan Shormaz took advantage of the time available to him to speak once to five minutes and time at his disposal to explain the amendments. Anyone else want a word? National MP Srdjan Milivojevic uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45565	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, primarily respected citizens of Serbia, was not intended to arrest someone with 30 days of arrest or deter. Thirty days of detention is determined only and exclusively in order to better conduct the investigation procedure. It is very often impossible to determine in eight days whether anyone was in the group, what he did in that group, how he acted. In particular, it is an incorrect insinuation that this law is passed because of a sporting event, whether it is important or not. We change the law above all to prevent it and to allow the judiciary to do its job properly, not to affect only one event with this law. Because when we from the Democratic Party participate in the creation of laws, we act so that these laws are lastingly good, for the sake of justice in this country. We are acting so that this law can be applied to us sometimes when we are in opposition, not that someone is watching us just to pass the law from the position of power, from the position of the party that decides on all important issues in this country. Therefore, it is not the legislator's intention to decide and apply this law only one sport event, the intention is to act preventively and to bring justice to justice, but also to allow other people involved in investigations to carry out this work effectively, well and in favour of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45566	A minute and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? The People's MP Dragan Shormaz has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45567	I was misread. I never said this was brought in for one event. Of course, the law will apply and will apply when it changes, but I remind you once again that our president of the Assembly said at a press conference that this bill will be passed as soon as possible and that we interrupt that session that we started to be published and that it could be in effect at the time of this derby. That's a fact. You can't deny it now, all the newspapers write about it, everyone's talking about it in public. That's what you said. Now, what are you saying that he's gonna... Of course it will. Nope, it'll only apply to that game. Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. But you've confirmed one other thing I've said and I thank you for that, you've really confirmed it. If someone reformed the judiciary and claimed that the judiciary was effectively reformed, and then increased the deadline for investigative actions in a shortened procedure from eight to thirty days, and claimed that it was more effective, where is the judiciary more effective? How is that more effective? If you cut from eight to four days, I'd understand, but to increase from eight to thirty, I don't understand where the efficiency is, one. Two, you've confirmed again, if someone increases from eight to thirty days, it means that, contrary to the European Charter of Human Rights and the Universal Declaration, I will now repeat, I will never again, bring new laws or parts of the law that are reducing the already reached degree of human rights. An eight-day investigation has been reached; please, gentlemen, we have a judicial system to do in eight days. That's a degree of human rights achieved. If we increase to thirty, it means that we are jeopardizing the human rights of our citizens, because someone will be in custody for thirty, instead of eight days, at the expense of the state, twenty-two days more will be fed by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45568	Two minutes. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, don't surprise me at all with such bill proposals because this is one of the best indicators that the current government is in an extremely large crisis and that, according to that old rule, when it realizes that it can't stay in power in a different way, then it tries to dragon penalties or by law to bring citizens into a situation that they can't enjoy basic civil rights and freedoms because they're being violated. What is also particularly important in this situation to point out is the hypocrisy of the Democratic Party, which here in every way tries to convince us that all these amendments to the law will lead to some improvement. Basically, that's not true. What is the mark of the Democratic Party and its rule, it is hypocrisy and double archeologists, i.e. citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order. The basic question arises – which laws apply and which laws do they not apply to? It applies to political opponents, it applies to young men who have been arrested at night, who have not even participated in any protests, but have spoken on a mobile phone or sent messages, but for those who commit a crime or court should determine whether or not they have committed a crime does not apply. I'll show you the best possible example that it doesn't work. First of all, by this assembly, by the Administrative Committee, whose president is now laughing because he knows what this is about... Mrs. Malovic, you as minister should plead on this, as both the reformed and unreformed judiciary will work if it is prevented by the Serbian Parliament as the highest legislative body. I have here a memo concerning an attempt to get an answer from the Administrative Board that a person against whom a criminal report has been filed decides on immunity. Slowly, Minister, you'll find out who it is. It's Boris Tadic. You know, in the former Kingdom of Yugoslavia, King Peter was on trial with the surrounding peasants, even losing litigation in court. You don't even have a chance to prove whether the president committed a crime or not. Watch out for 24. Six. In 2008, he sent a letter to the National Assembly to declare his immunity. The assembly didn't come forward. Day 14. The 10th Court sent the first order, the Assembly received 21. 10, no answer. Next, 22. The 12th court is sending a second order to the Assembly. The Assembly received a second emergency – without reply to the court. The Court sent a third order to the Assembly, the Assembly received the third order – without reply to the court. Court 18. 5. In 2009, he sent the fourth order to the Assembly, the Assembly received the fourth emergency and, finally, by letter of 25. 5. Ask the court to deliver a copy of the private lawsuit against Boris Tadic. The court shall send a sixth copy of the complaint to the Administrative Board. The assembly received a copy of the complaint – still without an answer. The court sends the sixth order, but to this day there is no answer. For this crime, absolute obsolescence has been prescribed for four years. This is the best example to see the nature and character of the Democratic Party. How can you, Madam Minister, ask anyone to work in accordance with the law or to obey the law... (President: People's Parliament, I ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, and to speak of the agenda, for it binds you. I'm talking right now... (President: National MP, you are required to listen to a warning which is why you are interrupted. You didn't listen to me when I spoke. (President: National MP, on the agenda is a search in particular, amendment to Article 1 which reads to be deleted. I'm asking you to talk about the agenda. Please, you're taking my time. Give me back my time, and I'll explain how I'll connect the amendment. Just give me my time. (President: Please, the first warning was given... Please, just give me the time. I'm talking very simply about the 1st member where the detention is determined and where that detention is increased and the threatened sentence for action is reduced by which that detention can be carried out. I'm linking him to this case, because this is a felony. In this case, you do not do a much simpler thing, what you have to do, that the Administrative Board does what it does in accordance with its description and competences in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's very simple. (President: National MP, I ask you to link the jurisdiction of the Administrative Committee and the Code of Criminal Procedure, amendment to Article 1 which reads - is deleted. I now give you a second warning: every violation of Article 106(1) will be considered your will not to participate in the session by respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but by forcing me as chairman to give you a warning. ) Mrs. Comić, I don't want you to take this any other way than as a well-intentioned remark. I hope someone understands this. I accept that you don't understand it and you don't understand it, it's your right. Or you won't, and that's your right in accordance with your party's policy. I do not want to bring myself in, to make warnings, because you will do what you have already done in the previous case, to tell me twice, or to mention my name: Dragan Todorovic, Aleksandar Martinovic, and again Dragan Todorovic, which speaks of some serious problems. Which are, I'm not getting into that. But what's much more dangerous than that, you do... Or the service erases it in a stenogram, and I've got a video, and I've got a stenogram where it's erased. That's absolutely illegal. Here's what you're doing. That's the problem you're facing. (President: National MP, the only thing not allowed during the session of the National Assembly is to violate the Rules of Procedure, insisting that you are not subject to the provision of Article 106(1) to speak on the agenda. I give you my first warning. ) Thank you very much. And there is no other way?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45570	Five minutes has been used since the time of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Anyone else want a word? Milos Aligrudić, please. Please excuse me, in the meantime, the minister checked in, I didn't see my apology, I didn't see it. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45571	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the proper informing of Serbian citizens, I would like to quote to you certain provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. According to Article 141(1) which does not amend this law, it is said: “The detention can only be determined by a court decision, under the conditions laid down in this Code, if detention is necessary in order to conduct a criminal proceedings and if the same purpose cannot be achieved by another measure. “ Also, the European Convention on Human Rights has been mentioned, and I would like to quote it, where Article 5 (and the name of the member is the right to freedom and security) says in paragraph 1: “Everyone has the right to freedom and security of a person. No one may be deprived of liberty except in cases and in accordance with the law of the prescribed procedure. “ Furthermore, point 2 states: “In the case of legal arrest or imprisonment of liberty for bringing a person before a competent judicial authority on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, and where justified, it is considered necessary to warn the execution of a criminal offence or escape after its execution. “ I have to tell you that discussions concerning the length of detention in the shortened procedure remind me of 2003 and the case of Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi, when it was debated whether it was justified for him to be in custody for eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45572	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45573	When we look at these amendments and the government's response to the amendments proposed again, we return to the same arguments that we had in the principle debate, and this time to the specific matter. This is about one of the possible grounds for detention. I'll remind you one more time, custody doesn't have retributive elements in it. The detention is not punishment, the detention is a measure. The detention serves to simplify it for layman, for two groups of reasons: one is to ensure the presence of the accused, or accused in the process, in order to be there, so as not to judge anyone in absentia. The second reason is to ensure the course of the procedure, so that the procedure can be properly conducted, that the evidence is not corrupted, that it does not affect witnesses etc. That's why a person accused and accused is sitting in custody, to prevent the possibility of communicating with the environment, because it can also spoil the course of the proceedings. That's mostly all the reasons for the detention. There is another possible reason: when one who has been guilty or accused has committed a crime before, for which he has been convicted by law enforcement, well, with the help of the fact that we know something about his previous conduct reliably, through criminal records, there is a high probability that some of these first two reasons will happen, even if they have not been put at risk in concrete terms. So someone has already been convicted of a six- or seven-year crime and was then remanded for another crime or a crime of a similar kind – then that's enough reason for a judge to determine detention. The detention is an extraordinary measure. And according to the Constitution and by the law that arises from the Constitution, detention is determined exclusively. I don't see any point in one of the terms of detention, and that's the height of the threatened sentence... Because if someone doesn't even intend to escape, and there's no indication that they're going to do it, they can't affect witnesses or damage evidence, we know who it is and what it is, we don't need to determine his identity and all the other reasons that are standing, so there's no reason to arrest anyone. For a judge, there may be enough reason if the penalty is threatened so that ten years in prison, or more severe punishment, can be imposed. The only reason for detention, of those six listed in the current law, is the legal, political most suspicious. That I, as a lawyer, ask myself, and speak to you as a lawyer, Madam Minister, there can be a serious controversy about whether the height of the crime-prohibited sentence put on the line is sufficient reason, as the only reason for determining detention. I don't think so. You're nodding your head too, you're saying it's not. It's okay, but look what the problem is. I'm asking you to listen to me, because I'm leading a serious controversy. What's the problem? If that's not enough reason for detention, then why isn't he cumulatively prescribed with someone else? Well, it is for a reason where it's said to be a crime that has certain traits. There stands what qualities there are, that are, of course, particularly difficult circumstances, etc. Look, even if that were true, there doesn't have to be a special reason for detention. So the detention is not mandatory, the judge doesn't have to decide then. You agree with me here. We no longer have an institution of mandatory detention. If that's the case, now that we agree on it, what's the point of reducing the border from ten to five years old? Is there one rational reason? I can't see him, he's gone. You're trying to explain it to legal-political reasons, you say – it's celery. That's what one of the MPs said in the previous debate, that it was celibate, and you said there were preventive and retributive reasons. What kind of black prevention to the point of detention? It's not there. It can only be a special prevention against a specific individual, and these reasons do not stand at the point of change, but stand at point 1), point 3) and there is no prevention in point 5. The point of point 5 is not to prevent, but to prove to the state that it is able to hold someone in custody during the proceedings, regardless of all other reasons for detention, only because of the height of the threatened sentence and the character of the act. It's a matter of discussion, I agree. Maybe, maybe not, but cut from ten to five, so, what's the policy here? Then you accept the LDP amendment and you say – okay, maybe you should limit it even more to one particular circle of work. They call those acts, as is said here in the amendment – that is, over five years for a crime with an element of violence. There's a new legal standard being introduced all of a sudden. You have no description in KZ of the concept of a new standard – an element of violence. This is the first time we've introduced the KZ... In other regulations, yes, but for the first time, we are introducing a standard called the element of violence. He's not explained anywhere. He will only be explained through legal practice and then the students of law school will learn from their professors through appropriate practice what the element of violence means. The element of violence is when someone seriously hurts someone physically. Some times it may be done out of trouble, but the accidental serious physical injury is a criminal offense, and then automatically means that in that case it will be reduced from ten to five years old. We can't do that. It's just not good. Even with this amendment change, it's not good, it doesn't make any sense. If the only purpose of doing so is to respond to some social events, so that you as a government show to citizens a certain degree of responsibility or speed of reaction by saying – yeah, that's what happens... No matter what our opinion is that you directed it all, but let's just say that you didn't, so you say, let's do it now, or we'll react or make some reaction and that reaction will be: we'll cut from ten to five, there we'll increase from eight days to thirty. Believe me, it's just a political message. It does not have any real content, because existing regulations give full opportunity to state authorities to react in any particular case and to protect the interests of citizens and state. So this occurs as a completely empty change that has no life-saving content, but therefore, with certain pressures from the executive authority on the judiciary, which we do not lack in this society, it can be used for political purposes in certain moments. That's what we're afraid of. I'm not saying it's happening right now, but that doesn't mean it won't happen in the future. That fear, both concrete and abstract... We will only talk about concrete fear, and we will talk abstractly about what is the obligation of a state and the constitution of a state and the law that requires human rights to be protected from the constitution. All retributive measures are applied to citizens extremely, and the law adopted under the Constitution prescribes them with caution and in such a way that they can and should be applied as rarely as possible. You don't do it here, you do one opposite thing. It's extremely easy to prove. Whatever you say here, it comes down to the same thing: you have decided that for something that you are not able to do in this society, you find excuses and that you are not able to do things like this, misleading the public and making the law that you are making in this congregation a simple advertising trick. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45574	It's been used nine minutes since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Boris Aleksic has submitted an amendment to delete article 1. Mrs Malovic, we have also discussed in principle, one of the reasons why my colleague has submitted this amendment is because we think that there will be no improvement, no concrete changes and that this law will not succeed in preventing violence, as you say, because the problems are much deeper in nature. I want to say that we are currently living in the Republic of Serbia where the mafia rules the state, not the state of the mafia. So we had a chance to see, first of all, when privatisation started, that there was a bankruptcy mafia; then we warned that there was an agrarian mafia in our agriculture; we warned that there was also a pharmaceutical mafia. Mrs. Malovic, since this is directly related to sports events, there is also a sports mafia. I'll remind you only that nine presidents of our famous first league sports clubs have been killed, that the General Secretary General of FSS Bulatovic has been killed. If I'm not mistaken, two or three murders have been solved, or the perpetrators have been found, and the rest is still unknown to the perpetrators. It's something that's been going on for years. Certainly, what should be said here is that Serbia is a nation that is extremely talented, not to be so biased that I should say that perhaps even the most talented nation in the world according to the number of inhabitants, that our athletes are the real ambassadors of the state in every way, that we win an extremely large number of medals, but that the problems in sport are evident and that they cannot push under the carpet. These events that took place in Genoa are the cause of the situation in our FSS. That's a fact. We lost to Estonia here. When we went to the entire nation's World Cup... All our football players were heroes. Suddenly, there's something wrong. I want to remind you, as someone who has been professional sports for twenty years, when we played games in broad Yugoslavia, do you think it was easy to play in Cantrida, Rijeka, Split, Pomlje, Maksimir, Zagreb? But that's not what happened back then. It started then, you remember well, when Boban jumped on that cop. What I want to tell you is that the Ministry of Sports, first of all, has to be more serious about our sport. You justify yourself by the crisis, but in sport it is justified to invest, as it is justified to invest in agriculture, because our athletes justify it in the best possible way. When all is well, when they win medals, the president of the state, the Prime Minister and Sports Minister, also appears. As soon as there's a crisis, they're gone. Although, I have to admit that when our president of the state shows up at some game, we usually lose, so it's better he doesn't show up. What I'm trying to say is, there were manifestations that were declared high-risk manifestations and went without a problem. Let me remind you, no bias, who's a fan. When Dinamo from Zagreb was visiting Partizana, everyone estimated it was a big-risk game, and everything went well. When Partizan went to Zagreb there was chaos, there was half a bus. The Croatian public justified it in a different way. Our Sports Ministry has to stand behind our athletes. It is a crisis, but to remind you it is very little to invest in our athletes. Our water polos now had to take out a loan to go to the European Championship. A basketball coach, a world expert, one of the best basketball coaches Dusan Ivkovic has not received a salary for ten months. The football players have achieved outstanding success, and the problem is pay for selector Antic. Why doesn't someone specifically deal with it, why didn't the state stand behind it? Now we'll be punished and financially, we'll be suspended and grounded. What I'm trying to say is, the state doesn't advertise when it's necessary. When Milorad Cavic won the medal and put on a "Kosovo is Serbia" shirt, he was taken away from the medal, and the public in Serbia did not stand behind him. Yes, it is later. He's got the apartment now, as far as I'm aware, for 99 years. The state had to build a pool, that there was a team of experts who would work. Such athletes deserve attention. Not to talk about tennis players, etc. What is still to be said is that, apart from these successes of our athletes, you are running away from responsibility, but you can't possibly, Mrs. Malovic, run away from responsibility. The riots started with the Pride Parade, and then this game happened. It's just a matter of circumstances, that this game happened. You want, as you say, to deal with violence and what's happened now, all of them are thugs, all of them are thugs, and you were revolutionaries on October 5th. When you set the assembly on fire, it was fine, and now that only one tire has set the garage on fire, it's a scandal, it's chaos. You can't do that. Then it hurts. Mrs. Malovic, it's going to hurt a lot, for God's sake. We can't wait for the Minister of Sports to come and talk about sports problems, because we can't push problems under the carpet, as they push in all segments of our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45576	Four minutes and thirty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45577	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by accepting both amendments to the Liberal-Democratic Party to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the LDP Code on Criminal Procedure, have reached one major goal, which is that one more rigorous way to apply and determine detentions in a regular and reduced procedure is to bind violence, i.e. violent behaviour. So the key words are: violent behavior. In this way, in fact, the power and ability of the state authorities to determine detention for certain crimes is limited, because violent behavior is the provision that will allow for the establishment of detention if it is a criminal offence for which the sentence of over five years is threatened and if it is a shortened procedure, when it is possible to say the maximum length of detention up to 30 days. This is another example of how a well-intentioned but perhaps inaccurate proposal from the government could be corrected for the benefit of Serbian citizens. I remind you that in the course of last year's debate on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Code, the Liberal Democratic Party has submitted an amendment which, in fact, for all kinds of public gatherings and public events, we have foreseen and violent behaviour as one of the essential elements of the criminal act. So, without that amendment, without our correction of the law in question, we today couldn't process all those evildoers who burned and destroyed Belgrade. So in last year's case and today's key words are violence and violent behavior. I think the time has come for the state to be a little less concerned with the consequences, and more concerned with the causes of this violence and looking for the real culprits, the ones who created this violence, which apparently, and how it threatens both the state and society. During the debate in principle and today, during the debate in particular, it was possible to see what this policy is, in fact, favoring violence. We of the Liberal-Democratic Party are really not ready to beat the violent and relativize things and not call violence a real name, that the crime is not clearly understood as a crime, because the bully is also the one who is 15 years old and the one who is 25 years old, if he does indeed commits violence. There's no place to alleviate the characterization of the one who committed violent behavior. According to us, the state has shown this proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure that it has serious intentions to speed up the procedure of bringing a bully to justice. However, it is not enough that only some rigorous methods, some increases in prison sentences, regulate the rise of violence in the state and society. That is why it is necessary, among other things, to pass some new laws, which might be a little more precise to determine our relationship, the attitude of the state, the relationship of society to violence and violence. Yesterday, we of the LDP submitted a proposal for a law on the prevention of violence, and this is what we propose to introduce the speaker of the Assembly into the assembly procedure, following an urgent procedure, a debate on the proposed law. We propose this law to designate a special prosecutor's office, a special police unit, a special judicial department at the High Court in Belgrade where everyone would be specialising in these forms of crime, as we have achieved when we created a division of organised crime and war crimes. These are effective answers, since clearly the solutions so far were not good enough. I would point out once again that the key words are "violent behaviour" and that the state must find an adequate response to this violent behaviour. One story is if the Criminal Code is changed, the other is if the Code of Criminal Procedure is changed, and the third if a new law is passed, which would show even more clearly one will, which, behold, may be slightly and declarative, to combat violence and violent behavior. I believe that by accepting these amendments to the Liberal Democratic Party MPs, it has been shown that this government, this state, has the capacity to look at the serious diseases of this society and serious problems, and not to exceed some of the limits that would limit human rights and human freedoms. Once again, it is time to seriously approach the fight against this kind of crime, such as violent behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45578	Seven minutes and fifty-five seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45579	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the ZES Parliamentary Group is an unacceptable amendment seeking to delete Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. In fact, we believe that the extension of detention in certain cases is necessary and necessary in order to give state authorities instruments that will fight criminal behaviour more effectively, and which, first of all, by accepting the amendments, relate to violence. But what's even worse than trying to submit these amendments to the state deny the possibility of fighting these forms of crime more effectively is some reasoning, which is actually a dangerous prank. So, attempts to change this law as an attack on citizens, as a danger to citizens, as a danger to human and civil rights, as a constraint of human rights, is in fact indirect support of a bully, because this law and these provisions apply exclusively to those accused of criminal acts for which the smallest penalty has been threatened for five years. So it's not about citizens, it's about perpetrators of serious crimes. I think that's why it's really inadmissible to explain the amendments... Someone can claim that eight days of detention is enough, that thirty days of detention is too much, etc., but it is unacceptable to confuse citizens by bringing out the truth that this applies to the citizens. It's not about citizens, it's about those who commit serious crimes. What I'd also like to say is, I feel a commitment, first of all, because in this congregation everyone thinks they can say whatever they want and that the assembly pay phone protects him when he's telling the truth, when he's making lies, slanders, when he's accusing whoever gets here... I want to say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia that, except, of course, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure to talk about a thing that was not on the agenda, but I feel obliged to answer that – it is about the application of the personal suit by Dragan Todorovic against Boris Tadic. So, the point is that Dragan Todorovic found it appropriate to sue the president of the Republic. All right. But there's something else I want to say. If all those who make slander about this pay phone in public appearances filed charges, then every radical would have hundreds of private defamation suits and I believe that all these lawsuits could mostly prove to be slanders. (President: National MPs, please all respect the provision of Article 106(1) and bring your statements on the subject of the agenda, or amendments. ) If someone thinks that sending a message that citizens are threatened by the fact that competent state institutions are trying to fight organised crime, and are still trying to define it as a weakness of the state, therefore, if the state's weakness to strengthen itself in the fight against crime, then I understand why crime was in some years when some others were in charge of the main policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45580	Four minutes and thirty seconds spent from the time of the parliamentary group president. People's MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The replica has the right to have an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I remind the MPs that when the search opened, we have repeated the notice of who is the authorised representative until now, until now, no notice of change has been given. The mandated representative, who by the decision of the parliamentary group, is scheduled to be an authorised representative for one item of the agenda, retains his right both in principle search and in search of particulars, so I ask you to take care of this. Each MP group is, of course, free to change that decision and just say, that I would not make a mistake in when the time is spent. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: To discuss. In the time of the parliamentary group? Here you go. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to the floor because I have the impression that this debate is headed in the opposite direction than the one scheduled for the agenda. I think that citizens, and even most of the MPs who are monitoring the course of this session, are hardly able to reach the conclusion that we are a member of the law, or what amendment is being discussed here. We are still on Article 1 or on the amendment to Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Code on Criminal Procedure. A few questions are now being asked here, or several problems. First, the Law is changed by an act that is in its form different from itself, it is changed by law. The basic rule of nomoch is that one general act is changed by such a general act. We're changing the law now. That's the first problem. He may seem of a formal nature, but he's important to this debate. Furthermore, the government has accepted the amendment of MPs from the LDP parliamentary group, but it is an acceptance of the amendments, in my personal opinion, problematic, and here is why. We're in the field of procedural criminal law. The LDP's amendment refers to the material concept of a crime, it refers to a criminal act, because the concept of violence is an element of a criminal act. What law defines every crime? Not the Code of Criminal Procedure, but the Criminal Code. The question now arises – how can the amendment intervene in the area of procedural criminal law, and that the essence of the amendment applies to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, not to the Code of Criminal Procedure? Another problem arises: do we have in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia the definition of violence? Mrs. Judita Popovic used "violent behaviour" in her presentation, but if you look at their amendment, it's a little different by wording, and it's not violence, it's violence. Does this mean that the courts will, from case to case, assess whether there is an element of violence, as it stands in their amendment, and how will, by all accounts, stand in this amended Code of Criminal Procedure, or will there be a predetermined rule when it can be considered that violence exists? Another problem: does violence only involve the use of physical force or violence can be a psychic nature, a verbal nature? That all remains unclear. As for what Mrs. Nada Kolundzija said, it is about Mr. Dragan Todorovic, therefore, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, has filed a private criminal suit against Mr. Boris Tadic over the crime of slander, and I think there is nothing controversial about it. There is no problem with Mr Dragan Todorovic's lawsuit here, so it is not even troublesome for the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. What Mr Dragan Todorovic wanted to say was that the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been deafened more than ten times to the competent court's intervention to decide on the immunity of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic! So here as participants in the proceedings are neither Dragan Todorovic nor Boris Tadic at all. I am not saying that Dragan Todorovic is right, nor that Boris Tadic has made a mistake, the court says, but this is about the fact that Dragan Todorovic, as an MP, intervened with the Administrative Committee to decide on the immunity of Mr Tadic, but was asked by the competent court to declare it. But the Administrative Committee has not said so today, though the court in charge has sent more than ten interventions to decide on Mr Boris Tadic's immunity. So, it is disputed here whether any body in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, any working body of the National Assembly, may not take care of the interventions of the competent court. It's strictly formally observed, it can't. He can do it in practice. So, that, Mrs. Kolundzija, is a problem with what Mr. Dragan Todorovic wanted to point out, so Ms. Comic's intervention failed to the end. Therefore, neither the court nor the court is problematic nor the case, neither is the gentleman who is sued in the proceedings, the Administrative Board is a problem, which pretends that he has not received the intervention of the competent court to resolve the immunity of the President of the Republic, and has been given more than ten times since 2008 until 2010. What Mr. Todorovic wanted to say is, what kind of state do we live in if one working body of the National Assembly deafens itself to the appeal of the competent court? Now, since this debate, of course, is conditioned by social events and we can't pretend that nothing happened in the Republic of Serbia – otherwise, she insisted, completely justified by me, and Mrs Nada Kolundji, although not in the way I think it should – I have to say a few words on the subject. So here is now from a social context, which lasts in Serbia for ten years, a single event has been drawn. It is October 10th 2010 and violence on the streets of Belgrade. Anyone who has read any textbook dealing with crime prevention policy, I believe that Mrs Malovic has read, knows that a mere criminal repression cannot solve any social problem. There is no country in the world that has contained crime by tightening sanctions or expanding the circle of cases where detention can be determined. Otherwise, it is an intervention for Mrs. Comic, but she came out, Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, in fact, when she spoke about extending detention, spoke about the amendment to Article 2, and we are still on the ground of Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Code on Criminal Procedure. Let's ask ourselves, all together, what are the real social factors that led to what happened on the streets of Belgrade on October 10th? (Zoran Krasic: DOS. My colleague Krasic said for me. Excuse me, who has promoted as a model of social values since 2000 that a man's first job in life can be a high position in the Serbian government? Who promoted the heroes on October 5th, the same people who in 2002 and 2003 will be declared enemies of state number one, Legion, Chumeta, Bugsy, etc.? The Legion on October 5th, gentlemen, was celebrated as a hero of the five-octobar revolution, as a man who cancelled his obedience to Slobodan Milosevic and allowed the five-octobar revolution to succeed. Who promoted in Serbia the principle that the mafia is allowed to buy you jeeps, to give you racial horses, to fly on the cost of the mafia to exclusive destinations in the world? Who promoted the principle that one company could be sold for three euros and three companies for nine euros? Who promoted people from the world of crime as fighters for democracy and human rights? When they turned against you, when they denied your obedience, for what reasons, only then were they declared enemies of the state number one. Why didn't you go into your famous operation "Sabbe" in 2001, but let organized crime drop its tentacles all over the country?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45582	I'd have to intervene to get back to the agenda. Crime was no basis for hiring anyone anywhere. I'd like to ask you to take care of that. We send messages that are not good for the reputation of the state, for the reputation of Parliament and for all of us. I don't think it's right. I fully respect your need to send some political message, but the way you do it simply does not conform to the truth. No one hired anyone because he's a criminal, for sure. Even if I have big remarks, like you, about some of the events you're talking about, but the way you say it really isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45583	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I really had no intention of insulting anyone, nor Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, and especially Mrs. Malovic. It's just that what we're talking about is facts. These facts are very painful and unpleasant and where good luck never happened, but unfortunately they happened. These young people who would come under the influence of the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia had to see crime paid off somewhere, that crime was socially justified, that crime could bring you success in life. Who could they see it from? The easiest thing to say - they could see from the SRS, but from 2000 to today, it's full ten years, we in Serbia have the same, as you would say, system of values. Those who were acts of violence on the streets of Belgrade on October 10th 2000 may have been 10, 12, 13 years old. They do not remember what was happening in Serbia since 2000. Is the government in Serbia responsible for offering these young people a model of conduct, a model of success in life, which is completely abnormal – that it can become rich without work, that it can become a senior state official without having a single day of work, that it can be unpunishedly associated with the mafia? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know if you followed a show on BN TV two days ago, where one of the participants was Mr. Dusan Janjic? Do you know what he said? Those who have carried out the peto-octobar revolution since 1997 – beware, these are not my words, I quote the man, Dusan Janjic was one of the gray eminence events of October 5th – so those who promoted the five-octobar revolution have established links with criminal structures since 1997 and 1998. Do they bear any responsibility for what happened on the streets of Belgrade? The easiest thing to say is it's the cheerleading groups, it's the fault of certain NGOs and it's the fault of the Serbian Radical Party. You can say that and nothing costs you, but the causes of these problems are much deeper and range from ten years ago. Do either of you feel responsible for the October 10th 2010 events? "The Parade of Pride" was to push a finger around a huge number of Serbian citizens because you are trying to eliminate moral awareness by force among citizens. Why isn't "The Parade of Pride" held in Skopje? Why isn't he in Podgorica? Why isn't he in Pristina? Why isn't he in Sarajevo? Because this climate in Europe has such a moral awareness that it is immoral to publicly show homosexual commitment. That's not what I said, ask most citizens in Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Bulgaria, in BiH, everyone will tell you the same thing. It's a historical fact. Despite knowing that public manifestations of homosexuality will revolutionize the citizens of Serbia, you wanted God to sustain it and, when violence took place, it was violent. Yes, but not entirely. It's your fault, too, various DOS furniture from 2000 to today. And it's those who didn't respect the Law on Public Meetings. It writes well there – if it is estimated that a gathering has a high security risk, it cannot be allowed to maintain it. You knew that the "Prade of Pride" carries a great security risk. You've had BIA reports, and despite that, you've allowed that "Prade of Pride" to be held. Why am I saying all this, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? Not to justify violence, not to justify abusers, not to insult anyone. I deeply respect, as a colleague, Hope Kolundji and Madam Minister and all other fellow MPs, but I would like to draw your attention, if you are willing to listen, that the causes of what happened on October 10th are much deeper than it seems to you from this perspective. You think by extending custody and increasing the number of situations in which custody can be determined to solve the problem. You won't. I said, and I will repeat again, take any textbook, Crime Prevention Policy, which are the main factors in countering crime – education system, media, an appropriate cultural model that must be offered to the young generation. Did you offer that to the young generation? No, I don't. Where's the proof? A statement by Mr Bozidar Djelic that we have a problem with a large number of EU members because a large number of Serbian citizens flee Serbia. Why is he running away? Because in Serbia it does not see its economic and social perspective, and it has been ten years since you came to power, ever since you promised that Serbia would grow honey and milk. Where's the honey? Where's the milk? They're nowhere to be found. Is that one of the reasons for what happened on October 10th? And, of course, something that cannot be said – how is it possible that Serbia is the only country in Europe where there is socially acceptable and socially unacceptable violence? When power is to be taken over, all violence is welcome. The world has visited photographs of the October 5th revolutionaries who from the National Assembly take art pictures, chairs, who carry machine guns. They were then heroes, heroes, freedom fighters, democracy, against the hated regime of Slobodan Milosevic. After ten years, whoever breaks the window, whoever steals the shoes is a bully. I'm sorry. Violence is both. The Serbian Radical Party is the last one you can object to against human rights and freedoms, not only because we have submitted amendments to this, as you say, the law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I have to remind you of another fact: when in 2000, on the eve of October 5th, Slobodan Milosevic wanted to pass a law on the fight against terrorism, the Serbian Radical Party was against, because we felt that the law was drastically violating the legal order in Serbia and that human rights and freedoms were being violated. Because we were against human rights violations and freedoms and in 2000, which is why we are against this concept and now, in 2010. Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45584	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45585	Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the only thing we can agree on is that, basically, any violence is a result of social circumstances. That's right. So violence and the situation of violence are something that obliges every society and its institutions to deal seriously with their causes, and that is where we can agree. If someone is trying to claim that regardless of someone having an unfortunate childhood and becoming a mass murderer should have mercy on him and not condemn him with a deserved punishment, then he does not understand why there are state institutions that protect all citizens from every criminal, regardless of what social, economic, cultural or other conditions were that led him to become a criminal and criminal. So anyone who tries to even a citizen with the perpetrators of a crime actually defends a criminal, however verbally they claim not to. What is true, if we go from social circumstances affecting the phenomenon and the increase of violence, then I must also agree – if Serbia was surrounded by war, if Serbia was hit by a war in which it was not involved, if Serbia was exposed to international sanctions, isolations, hundreds of thousands of refugees, tens of thousands of graves, pyramidal banks that robbed Serbian citizens, these are certainly the reasons that led to the consequences we are talking about today. If we're talking about ten years from now we haven't been able to deal with all these consequences, I can accept that. The consequences were enormous. Anyone who thinks they can solve all this in ten years or doesn't understand social processes or doesn't understand the difficulties that existed in that time and economic weakness of the state... (National Ambassador Zoran Krasic throws out of place). (President: Could you calm down a little bit? )......................................................................................................... Then he really wants to do something else, wants to amneste his own responsibility, or himself out of his own responsibility for what was a contribution to such a bad result. Of course we will answer to the citizens of Serbia in every election and of course the citizens of Serbia will evaluate our work, as some others judge. As Serbian citizens punish by denying votes to those who justify hatred as the basis of their policy, who justify violence as a means of achieving their policy, so I believe that, regardless of what we may have achieved, we may not have achieved all the goals and removed all the consequences of the tragic 1990s, citizens will appreciate that we have made a huge step. I don't want to talk about the results of those ten years. It's in front of the citizens, that they say what results we've achieved, starting above all the points we've come from. What can't possibly justify violence is the fact that someone claims that most citizens think this or that of a minority group of citizens. So if there is a minority, even when most people think they have the right to hate that minority, the state has an obligation to protect that minority. That's why there's a state. Anyone who justifies violence as expressing a different opinion than that minority is actually the justice of those who think that someone for showing their political attitude, moral consciousness, or something else has the right to reach out for violence. That's why there's an institution in the state to stop it. There's something else I want to say. You also know why a pathetic prank is an attempt to wave some kind of paper, related to Dragan Todorovic's private lawsuit against President Boris Tadic. Because you know very well that there are many private defamation suits against radicals, and the Administrative Committee for Private Charges for Defamation has never seized anyone's mandate. That's why it's really pathetic and proof that there's no policy, that there's no strategy, no vision of this country, that there's only a poor attempt to disqualify others, some, for now, almost impossible, point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45586	You're well understood. Are you looking for a replica? Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mrs. Kolundjia, really didn't understand. Neither do I hate anyone, especially you, nor have I called for violence, nor am I responsible for the pyramid banks, nor am I responsible for the war in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. But in order to prove to you how wrong you are, I will call for help from anyone else to Ivo Andric. Ivo Andric wrote a song in the prose, which is called, has a bit of a sad name, "The funeral song". The song in the prose states the case of a poor man who entered a rich man's attic and took away some flesh and, of course, raised the hook and the disruptor that this poor man's most severe punishment, and Ivo Andric then excellently ends up with one sentence: "You say that this man should be punished, and I say that if all of you who have touched others once welcomed the tans, I'm afraid that the Imperial arsenal would not have so many bullets for all that pile of honest Hajduks. “ So, Mrs. Kolundzija, punish the bullys of October 10th, but then let the state punish those responsible for the robbery privatisation, who have left hundreds of thousands of people out of work, who are guilty of young people fleeing Serbia in 2010 as if they were in 1991 and 1992. Here, punish all of this. Don't just punish some and not punish others, because then it's not the rule of law, then it's a selective application of law. Selective application of law is legal violence. Now you want to stop the violence, and you want to promote it yourself. Does the law apply equally to everyone in this country? According to the Constitution, they are in force and are not in practice. That's our problem. The easiest thing to do is deal with a bunch of hooligans. Any country in the world can do that. I don't know what's so big about what happened on October 10th. Hooliganism is something that can be solved, but the causes of hooliganism, Mrs. Kolundgia, cannot be solved either by prolonging detention or by increasing the number of cases in which custody can be determined. That's what you don't understand or you don't want to understand. You keep trying to amnesty yourself... (President: Time. The state has its instruments to calculate with hooliganism, you know. I'm done. You're trying to amnesty by coming back to the '90s. It is simply not true, because you have been in power for ten years, just as Slobodan Milosevic was.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45588	Okay, Mrs. Hope Kolundjia has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45589	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, I never speak to anyone personally. I'm talking about a policy that contains hate, impatience, xenophobia, and that calls for violence. Anyone who recognizes themselves in such a policy is likely to be recognized for a reason. I'm not responsible for anyone jumping on that when we say there's a policy that has led to accidents, wars, casualties, murders, that this policy is responsible, of course, sometimes individuals... If anyone recognizes it, I'm not really responsible for it. I didn't tell anyone personally. I just think that day and day every policy that carries impatience, every policy that carries hate in it, every policy that justice violence is a policy that calls for violence and bears responsibility for its consequences. It's up to each of us to measure every word, to take care of every message he sends, because we're someone they look at, and if there's a hate language here, then it's passed on amongst the citizens. If there is impatience here instead of argument, then impatience is passed on among the citizens. If it looks like politicians hate each other here, and they have no argument for the policy they want to represent, then that hatred is passed on to the citizens. Everyone is responsible for every word he says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45590	Thank you. Which one of the MPs came forward for breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. So, according to the amendment, first Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45591	Thank you, President. Companions and colleagues, respected citizens, violence and hatred are like hands and gloves, no violence without hatred. Any exchange of thesis on violence, is equally incompetent to the government for which the citizens are leaving, is an attempt to justify violence. Any replacement of the thesis on violence, physical violence, murder, crime, beatings, and all that follows is equal privatisation, unfair, or privatisation of three euros, is justice of violence. Anyone who says that all governments have been democratic since 5 October 2000, that they have fought violence, is lying. They weren't all. It was Djindjic's government, of course. Then the politics of violence and crime returned. Afterwards, after October 5th, the American Embassy and others were burned. Not before. Anyone who says the '90s are the cause of this is not telling the truth either. The 1990s are just the top, the end of the degradation, the destruction of a system that lasted for more than a decade, a system that has been the dominant violence, revolutionary justice, etc., meaning something we've been living in for decades, although we haven't felt that violence directly in the last ten years, when some have resorted to violence for the sake of others to preserve the failed policy and to bring Serbia and all the surrounding peoples into blood and violence, they simply ended up as they ended. Here we are changing the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure to allow for more effective punishment of violence. Someone doesn't like that anyway. Who can not like it? To those who essentially shared ideology in the last years of the regime, from 1997 to 2000 participated in the government, shared the ideology of violence and crime. These values have led to hatred and, after all, violence. This was the value of “three Ps”: blonde, “paero” and gun. Those were the values of the man who got rich carrying the crates, and he was the president of the state. I know there are many nostalgics in that system, this system that has been constrained by violence and whose leader killed himself in The Hague. I know that the state authorities and institutions in that system went into extremes during the 1990s. Violent and criminal were before the 1990s, but they did it openly then. The only security in this country had an armed formation that had both helicopters and aviation. In the 1990s, when some colleagues from here participated in the government, in the last phase, the craziest phase of the regime, they made Serbia what we saw on October 10th. Unfortunately, there was no revolution on October 5th. On October 5th, only the system tried to replace the first man to survive the system. They would have succeeded if that first man had confessed to defeat on September 25th and the one determined by the system to replace him in his office. On September 20th, Kostunica would enter Milosevic's office, as Momir Bulatovic and Mirko Marjanovic would come to their jobs, nothing would change. Zoran Djindjic would not be in the position of Prime Minister, but he would probably be alive, and we would still live in that system from the 1990s. But the one who apparently ignored in the final phase of his government did not do so and came to October 5th. On October 5th, there was no revolution, it was an attempt by citizens to defend their vote against one who did not want to recognise the results of the elections, and I guess in all normal countries it is called a coup attempt. That doesn't justify violence on October 5th, but it helps to understand everything that follows with violence. Yes, the defense of October 5th is a legitimate act of every citizen in every normal country. So, nostalgia is great, but when we look at that, despite October 5th, criminal policy and criminal policy holders have retained the main levers of the state government, which are the military, armed state security formation, and that today they have burned only on these bars in the streets, hooligans, fan groups and these underground organizations, "Dveri", "1389", all the fan groups, burned to it, which means that anxiety is great. So we are glad that you have accepted our amendments, which objectively does not extend the increase of detention from eight to thirty days in a shortened procedure to all the parts that have been threatened for five years, but only those that have the elements of violence, because this is the last moment for us to calculate ourselves with violence. When we calculate ourselves with violence, we will also calculate ourselves with those who promote violence and their bearers. Then both the nostalgic and the nostalgic speeches during the course of crime and violence will be less. After all, I guess there'll be fewer of them because that's what citizens are going to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45592	MP Mirko Munjic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45593	Thank you. Mrs. Malovic, you said a few days ago, I will try to quote you, that it is obvious that the rampage of hooligans on the Belgrade streets and in Genoa was well organized and synchronised. You further said – it is questioned who the organisers and the financialists of these riots are, and then you said that the passwords that were cried out and the attacks on the political parties' headquarters clearly indicate that violence on the Belgrade streets was politically motivated. Right? Madam Minister, one simple question arises: is this a little hasty, not to say undosed and large, a statement? Any results on this statement? Mr. Homen also said a few days ago that the state's response to any violence on the streets would be creepy. In October 2010, the country's response will be creepy, and in October 2000, what was the state's response, Madam Minister? What would happen if, in October 2000, the country's response was also creepy? What would happen to these new democratic changes, if the state's response to the collapse of Belgrade, to the burning of the National Assembly, to everything that happened that October 5th was also creepy? Where would they be now? Is there a difference, Madam Minister, between the collapse of Belgrade on October 5th 2000, these behaviors that occurred and those that we saw on October 10th this year? Next, Madam Minister, where are the tycoons you say are behind these tattooed hooligans? Where did they get rich? Did they get rich in some oil fields of Saudi Arabia or maybe Las Vegas or Monaco's bookies? I'd say they're people who really sit on the wings of many political parties. Furthermore, questions regarding the change of this law: you, Madam Minister, have not explained to us, or have not at least explained to a sufficient extent, under one, why are the changes of the CAP smarter and more cellular than the existing solution? Do these kind of partial changes actually represent a kind of derogation of the law that represents one whole? In the end, what will be the impact on the general right of citizens, and aren't hooligans really just an excuse for something else? What's behind that hill? Conclusion: Prolongation of detention passes into some form of sanctions. The detention, as you know, Madam Minister, has always been a measure, no sanctions. When detention is applied there comes a kind of display of some form of hatred, frustration, etc., so that the consequences of such measures in the future, perhaps they are not seen today, will certainly be fatal. Furthermore, you have cast a "bone" to the Constitutional Court because it needs to make a political decision regarding the ban on certain cheerleading groups. I ask the question, how can a formal-law decision be made to ban something that doesn't exist, something that isn't actually registered? I ask more questions: where is the prevention of the state? Where's the children's education? Where's the children's education since preschool, from school institutions? You know that even in the lower classes of elementary school there are so many violent behaviors. Is there a greater social action in the fight against drug abuse, with regard to the control of alcoholism and other monsters that destroy this society, and most of all its youth? I'll say one more thing about your inconsistencies (when I say yours, I mean the Government) with regard to the adoption and application of regulations and selective regulations for, like, daily use. On the first of August 2010 (I will pass on a statement from all the daily papers) the following was published – prisons in Serbia are overloaded, the number of prisoners is growing year by year, be careful, it has been transferred from your side, and among the key reasons are: one, the criminal policy of courts and two, the practice of determining detention. So these were two basic reasons why there was overwork in prisons. There were 10,974 people in prisons on 31 December 2009. That's 1,200 more than 2008, that's 2,000 more than in 2007 and 3,000 more than in 2006. Common detention is one of the main reasons for an increase in the number of detainees. This is also what was presented on August 1st 2010. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you just said this two and a half months ago. What has changed dramatically in Serbia in 75 days that the detention after these changes and additions will triple? When did you tell the truth, 75 days ago or today? We are opening another question: is the state organised and technically ready for something like this, is the state ready to receive and adequately maintain this number of detainees? Do you think about it? Here's why: there are about 3,000 detainees in custody today, and that's twice the capacity they allow. A few months ago, in fact, somewhere in April or May of the month, Deputy Ombudsman for the rights of persons deprived of liberty said, quote: "The conditions for all detainees are below the minimum of standards." Look out, the conditions for all detainees are below every standard, and you want to triple the number of detainees with these measures! Your country's in danger, right, that's why? Furthermore, Madam Ministers at the Central Prison in Belgrade, where there are about 1,200 detainees, only the Red Cross and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights have access. Why is that? Even that Helsinki Human Rights Committee doesn't have access there, and you're talking about the rule of law and the assets of some European civilization. And do you know what the fluids of these detentions have been like all this time since you've been in power? This is official data, which has been published. Here's what you're saying: dishes seasoned with cockroaches, inadmissible overcrowding, lack of air flow and natural light, inverted and poor sleep hygiene, sleeping on the floor, malnutrition, inadequate health care. Do you think, Madam Minister, and you of the Government, of the condition in which the detainees are located? Obviously you don't think, don't think about the state of the detainees in both the state and the state. Now we may be a little bit clearer why you don't think about the state of the detainees and outside our country, and that, Madam Minister, is your constitutional obligation. Why don't you act human, if you can't behave politically, why don't you protect all Serbian citizens as the Constitution tells you, as it says in the Constitution? Why don't you worry, and after our months of appeals that Dr. Vojislav Seselj's medical condition has been compromised in The Hague? It is something we have asked many times as a question in this congregation and come across a wall of silence. When we see what kind of detentions these 24 detention units are in our country, I wonder if you've ever read a book about those tapes in far-off Siberia? There's a lot of similarities with those detentions. So the detention should be an extraordinary measure. It can't be used, it's used when all the options are exhausted. Then it should be determined, as soon as possible, that should be the rule; and the procedure of it should be urgent. Judges should not be allowed to meet the state by covering that detention. The worst part is, Madam Minister, when a judge is afraid to lift custody. He's scared when the media gets involved, so he starts bidding, so the target starts, and then he actually violates the presumption of innocence. All this work you're doing is hasty and without some big legal analysis. Really, it's fast, and as fast as it is, it's also short. You absolutely didn't need these changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45594	According to the Rules of Procedure, Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45595	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, I am advertising Article 107 item 1 – the speaker at the session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You, Madam President, had to intervene in relation to the presentation of MP Zoran Ostojić, who, I quote, said, "The service has installed its new first man," that is, Milosevic has gone, Kostunica came, which does not correspond to the truth. Of course, Mr. Ostojić talked about everything but the subject, and that was another reason to take away his word. On account of what Mr Ostojic said, we believe that our dignity, as well as this home, as well as the whole of Serbia, is generally known that Vojislav Kostunica, after the election victory on September 24, 2000, was the first and only time he saw Slobodan Milosevic when he was taken away by the "Official Messenger" in which he said he had won the elections regularly. As for the installation of the Service, it should also be recalled that some leaders of the opposition at the time, such as Vuk Draskovic, Dragoljub Micunovic, including Zoran Djindjic, had visions with Slobodan Milosevic, which is public, which is a secret. I will also remind you of contacts with DB chief Jovica Stanisic, which Vojislav Kostunica never had. Speaking of which, we can talk all night, but I think you should have interrupted Mr. Ostojić. First, he wasn't talking about the subject, and secondly, he was telling a drastic lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45596	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, since I really don't have the DB data and I can't absolutely know if Mr. Ostojić was telling the truth or not. You who possess each other know better. Indeed, there is a possibility that I could be wrong if I intervened, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I have no information as to who I've been seeing so many times. As the elected representative of the citizens, I must make sure that I respect an MP who obviously has more information than I do. Please, you know that when I remind the MP to return to the agenda, he says – this is my association on the topic. That's what you do, I don't mean personally you, but the MPs of your parliamentary group, so if I were to tell Mr. Ostojić to come back to the topic, I'm taking the opportunity now to ask you all once again to talk about the topic in question. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45597	Article 27, as regards how you conduct the sessions, which includes, at the same time, the way you address the MPs. You can say that someone is wrong when they seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the Rules of Procedure are not injured, but don't, when you give an explanation, talk in such categories as a moment, because then it turns out that I wouldn't hurt the Rules of Procedure if I said I had reliable information that you're a triple agent of various foreign intelligence forces and that you're sitting in the seat of the President of the National Assembly. You would then warn me and tell me that I'm insulting, and you wouldn't say that you can't react because you officially don't have information about who's an agent and who's not. It's just out of the question. It's very simple, if someone insinuates, saying heavy insinuations at the expense of the leader of a liberal political party who is parliamentary, or one of us who is present here, it seems offensive. None of you ask that you be involved in a metric debate, whether something is true or not, but when you know that you have no proof of something and you do not have them, and you hear some heavy accusations, it is up to you to remind whoever brings them that there is another place for such a thing, not the House of the People's Assembly. We here can politically qualify each other as working, unemployed, correct, wrong, wrong, losers, winners, those who do harm to citizens with their political behavior, those who benefit, it can, it's permissible, but to say in categories that someone from the Service has set someone up to do something without any evidence of it, you'll allow it to be extremely offensive. I have never said anything to the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party that others dare talk about, because I don't know where he got the money from, but I can only comment on that being heard and seen in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45598	I appreciate the suggestions, but I just don't have another answer for the one I gave Mr. Tomic. You don't have the right to replicate, you can't replicate me. Mr. Ostojić is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45599	Article 107, dignity of the Assembly. I'm asking if the insinuation is a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Is it insinuation that the American embassy burned or is it a fact? Was it insinuation that then the Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica or was it a fact? Is the insinuation that the police have moved away and released alleged protesters, defenders of Kosovo, however, to burn? Is that insinuation or fact? Did the insinuation that the Legion became commander of the criminal armed formation of the State Security in the 1990s, or is that a fact? Was it insinuation that he retired when Zoran Djindjic was Prime Minister or facts? Is it insinuation that Jocic, the minister of police, at the time of the burning of the American embassy could not command the police, or is that a fact, because he was injured? Is it insinuation who commanded the police? Yeah, it's not Jocic. Who? Nikitovic or Bulatovic? That will be determined. That's not a fact, right. We don't know which one of them is. Or Kostunica himself. It's insinuation. But the question of who commanded the police, may it be insinuation, is that an insult? No, it's just asking questions, I don't insult anyone by that. I'm asking who's in charge. We'll figure it out sometime. Has the crime been committed? Did anyone answer for that? It's not. Is it insinuation or the fact that one man got three months in prison for burning down the mosque? It's not insinuation, it's a fact. Who was in power then? Kostunica. Is that insinuation or fact? Fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45600	Time. There is no violation of the Parliament's dignity, but if you are dissatisfied, we can declare in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Mr. Standing? You won't, okay. Replica, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45601	I'll be very brief. As far as facts and insinuations are concerned, I heard very well what you said, Mr. Staying. It would all be okay to defend the reasons for the political performance, but to the same extent that you would accept that I am just as right and okay and that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure if I told you, for example, I am not saying this, this is just rhetorical, that citizens know that there is no insult, personally addressed, as if I were to tell you the following: I ask you, is it true that your feet stink? I don't know that, but I'm asking you, so I'm insinuating that it really is. You know, these are rhetorical games. If you ask someone a question, then you keep asking them, with the answer they're aiming at, and you don't know what the answer is, it's insinuation. Look, it's a matter of political style. Someone can act in political style by asking questions, someone's making direct and direct claims, and you're doing it this way. Someone in your group or someone with some media like that horrible TV B 92, they do it directly. Of course, you can't take away the right of us who feel hurt because of your words to react. We'll always do that, and you'll do whatever you want. Secondly, right away, whatever you say after this, I will no longer answer, precisely because of the dignity of this house. There's no reason, unless you make a maximum insult, which I can expect from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45602	Mr. Zeljko Tomic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the services to see what this is about, it's not about the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45603	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you have now effectively violated Article 107 because in response to my remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have said how, my God, you are not familiar with certain things, and we who talk about services and similar things may have. You will not be able to convince me, and then you will speak ill of yourself if you do not remember that Vuk Draskovic, the SPO leader, after meeting with your former President Slobodan Milosevic, said it was a charming and funny man. You'll surprise me if you show that you don't know that Zoran Djindjic sat with Jovic Stanisic; those photos from the pub were in the newspaper, in the Sunday Telegraph. Those aren't some service reports, that's what came up in the press. Whatever I said, I've been pulling out of the media for the last 20 years. No one called me to tell me, but I simply knew, like you, like all present, like all citizens of Serbia, for the contacts of the opposition leaders then with Slobodan Milosevic and with the services. Vojislav Kostunica was first and only seen by Slobodan Milosevic when he told him that the Republic Election Commission recognised the victory of Vojislav Kostunica over Slobodan Milosevic in the September 2000 presidential elections. That's what I wanted to say. Don't pretend to be ignorant, you know very well what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45604	I could even agree very much with you, however, for the second time you advertise the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this anymore, I'm going to have to apply the business order. Mr. Zoran Ostojić is re-advertising the Rules of Procedure. You are entitled to the replica right now and we end up, as Mr Aligrudic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45605	I agree with Mr. Aligrudić that we should go back to this law, to fix it, but only to answer Mr. Aligrudić. If my feet stink, it's not a known fact. They may smell, they may not smell, but it certainly is not a known fact for Mr. Aligrudić, but that the American embassy burned, somehow I think it's a familiar fact and it can't be compared. I don't want any further controversy. I want us to pass a law that will remove violence from the streets so that the proponents of violence can eventually advocate violence on the Internet, speech and press, but not put it into practice, because in the end, we all live in violence for twenty years. That's why I care that this law is passed without human rights being violated, because we're the party that takes care of it. I don't insult anyone. If they're insinuations, they may be offensive, but I was talking about facts. I would recommend to Mr. Tomic: go, since I know you are Partizan, with Marash, root for Partizan, but avoid those fan groups and all that you are deeply in for.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45606	Please don't speak to the Messenger. I would just like to remind once again that the advertising of a member who regulates the dignity of the Assembly was more than the Rules of Procedure predicted without having responded. I'm gonna have to react. Mrs. Milica Radovic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45607	You know what, I have to call on Article 107 again because Mr. Ostojic just gave me a chance to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45608	Please, you can't go to article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45609	Let me just have one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45610	I only allow one sentence. Let the letter say one sentence, you from her group of MPs. Here you go, Milice.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45611	A Christian of modern politics in Serbia took the biggest blow of the moment when he said his hands were dirty, but his conscience was clean. Unlike Contemporary Serbia's Christian, the Democratic Party of Serbia and all its members are clean hands and conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45612	Mr. Jugovic wants to confirm some facts, but I don't know what form. Replica, Mr. Vuk Draskovic was mentioned and the situation when he found some content. Here you go. You have to sign up again. Please, professional services, the electronic login system is not working. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45613	Thank you, Your Honor. What we just heard from the Democratic Party of Serbia's message is definitely a violation of article 107, or I can call on it, but it wasn't the only one who said things that really seem offensive. Before that, Mr. Aligrudic did so, when he spoke to Mr. Ostojic, at the end of his speech, that he could expect serious insults from him. You have not responded to this, and Mr. Ostojić is not such a person who can hardly offend anyone, nor has he ever intended to do such a thing. The bottom line of what I answered is that we try once and for all to clear one thing out. Cedomir Jovanovic has said his conscience is clean but dirty hands. His hands are dirty because he probably had to shake hands with someone who was in the position of your party president and who he had to support in 2000 to win a regime. I think those words you said, ma'am, are very unserious. For everyone in this country who knows about the LDP-led politics, that's the story that some Christian of a new age is extremely funny. I ask you once again to take the facts presented by Mr. Ostojić seriously. Those insinuations you're making are the most about your party. What happened during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, from the burning of embassies, mosques, are facts. You know who the police ministers were, you know who the heads of state were, and that's what this is about. So, no insinuation here has been made except for the assumption that only one of the two men could have allowed the burning of the US Embassy, whether Rade Bulatovic or Aleksandar Nikitovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45614	I gave the word to Mr. Alexander Jugovic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45615	I'm going to answer to the DSS very briefly, and they're going to understand that very well. Unlike Vuk Draskovic and Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica was never the target for liquidation, nor Milosevic's secret police, nor the death squadron. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45616	Gentlemen, we have a very current topic. The historians write history. Please return to the current agenda. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45617	I wanted to replicate, because I think it's an unacceptable way of interpreting some important events. So anyone who thinks a responsible politician should sit in his room, angry at the whole world and not communicate with anyone to try to solve the problem, doesn't understand what politics is. So the responsible politician is looking for a solution to the situation in which the country is located, looking for a way out of the difficult circumstances in which the country is at some point. The attempt to accuse those who communicate with anyone who could solve this situation shows only that they do not understand what a responsible politician is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45618	Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45619	Article 107. I'd really like to ask you, it's an important topic, tomorrow we're playing a derby, to get back to the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45620	Mr. Shormaz, the article 107 has been mentioned on several occasions. You can't do it by Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45621	Then Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45622	And article 27 was mentioned once. Milos Aligrudic: So what? Mr. Aligrudice, please don't throw it at me. Mr. Shormaz, I can't let you advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure that's already been mentioned, because then I'm really breaking the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. There's no basis for replication, you've made yourself clear, there's no replicas yet. Mr. Aligrudic, please, you can do it by your book.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45623	Since I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, I will say that it is Article 105, and in relation to Articles 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, up to Article 117. (President: You are obviously abused by the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Can I finish? So, Article 105. It's about maintaining order at the session. When it comes to maintaining order at the session, there is a certain role of the President of the National Assembly, which is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. Keeping order at the sitting does not mean that the chairman can carry out the will or even the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm going to explain what I mean. So, I'm not calling on these members for caution, I'm telling you that you violated them. You are also violating a member of the 103rd direct, and I now call upon it, because it cannot be referred to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure twice. If anyone hurts the Rules of Procedure, e.g. Mr. Ostojić, and we point out, we cannot say five times how Mr. Ostojić hurt that member, because it has already been discussed, but if Mr. Maras hurts the Rules of Procedure or anyone else again, I suppose we have the right to react. Turns out someone can insult us once, we can rebel, say why we're hurt, and then all day, according to you, we can be insulted by whoever gets here, and we can't point to Article 107's injury. What kind of catchy interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and how to conduct a session? It's just amazing to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45624	Article 117, which regulates order at the session and which says the president is ageing, says that "the president informs about the stated extent at the session", so who he informs. So, I haven't said a single word, and you've obviously called on a member who hasn't argued the content of your statement. As for Article 103, you interpret it that way. In fact, you wanted a replica, and it was no longer a basis for replication. I think it's all clear. This theme is over at this point and you said yourself that it was enough and that you didn't want a replica. So, I don't understand, you're probably the only one who knows what you're advertising. The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45625	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, above all, the citizens of Serbia, here's how many members of the Code of Criminal Procedure are changing, and here's what all the debate is going on in this room, to prevent or support the exchange of only two members who say that detention can be extended from eight days to thirty days, and only for the most serious crimes, and this is how different people are found in this topic, these provisions and these changes. Of course, I'd like to put it back on the agenda that we're discussing today and underline a few very important things that my friends from the Democratic Party and the ruling coalition have been talking about. By this law, by amending this law, we are not trying to enforce violence in this country, we are trying to prevent violence. These changes show no fear. As a member of the Resistance, I know best what fear is. That's what I see in the eyes of my political opponents when Boris Tadic announces that he will call the elections, because I know that after that they will stand up, give him a hand, shake hands with him, sit in their seats here beside me, as MPs, all who sit in this hall, and applaud with us. I know that there is a prophet in this room and when someone says that the Democratic Party has been in power for ten years in this country, I thank him, because the Democratic Party has run this country since 2007. And when someone says that the Democratic Party will rule for ten years, they first talk about their weakness and then about our strength. You had a bad prophecy, which means we'll only be in power until 2017. We don't make laws to remain in power, to frighten someone, to carry out terror in this country. We were victims of terror, both from the Democratic Party, and from the Serbian Renewal Movement and the DS and the Resistance together, and we know what it's like to be a victim of terror and we know, Mr. Munjic, what it's like to be in prison. I was in prison 45 times at a time when your party was in power and I slept on concrete; it was your relationship to the arrested and imprisoned. I don't see how you saw overnight that it was inhumane and it wasn't good, and then it was good for you. I want to say something. Some of my predecessors have told us to show panic and that the government is panicking because we're passing a law like this. Someone demonstrates panic and fear the moment he pulls a hekler on students seeking his resignation, when he pulls a gun on taxi drivers who demonstrate in front of the Assembly. I've never worn a hekler or a gun. I know there are people in this country whose lives are in danger, and that's right from these thugs. Their security is carrying weapons, but these people aren't afraid, these people are meeting challenges, these people are threatened because they want to make this country a country where normal, decent people can live. These people are threatened because they dared to put all the organized crime leaders they've been building in this country for years, where they belong, in prison. I congratulate those people sitting here in front of me on this because there is no organized criminal gang whose leader is currently not in prison, legally convicted or awaiting a judicial verdict. But here, through this law, the question of sports is, is it okay to set the seat of the Democratic Party or any political party on fire? I have always advocated that all people can criticise the government and I will support anyone from the opposition who criticises the authorities from the position of reasoned criticism and therefore be exposed to any threat. No one in this country will ever be unpunished to threaten anyone else, regardless of whether they belong to a minority group by sexual definition or to another minority group, and the next day someone else is the victim of a protest because he is a member of a minority group. What if the next day for someone who cultivates exotic herbs, the majority say, "There is no tropical plant in Serbia, and that is not the attitude of the majority in this country, so that we break down his stand with exotic herbs?" I'm gonna have to back him up, protect him. He's right, if he wants to grow exotic herbs. I've got a few more issues here. He was quoted here just now and Mr. Janjic says "it is a gray eminence on October 5th and here is what Mr. Janjic says on TV BN, here's what Mr. Janjic says about 1999". When you quote Mr. Janjic from BN television, quote him from 1999, 1996, 1995. It says: organized crime is created by the vice president of the government hectare in front of taxi drivers. That's what Mr. Janjic says, the gray eminence on October 5th. He's no gray eminence on October 5th and no Legion hero on October 5th. The heroes of October 5th are citizens of this country. Whenever we protested at the myths, the demonstrations, no windows were broken. We never went to sell our beliefs for shoes, TVs, video recorders, a picture from the congregation. I'm proud of my fellow comrades, because we had our ideas, our beliefs, behind which we stood. We've never been behind any phantoms or hoods. We've never chased a stick on windows and baseball bats against political opponents. Did anyone else have any other ideas, ambitions on October 5th, I don't know, but I do know that two million people have come out to defend their electoral will in a magnificent way. I speak for these people, not for the sake of a handful of people who have come out of other interests. Then they were hidden behind the hood, and they stood by us. They may have been lurking in a picture from the congregation, a chair, or a computer, but we didn't have a chance to sit in the chair of the government. We just wanted to make this country a normal country, that it can live normally and without fear. With these changes to the Criminal Code, we want to do it, so that no one will ever be afraid to take their five-year-old kid to a football game, that no one will ever be afraid to go out into the streets and face a horde that's gone to break his head just because he thinks otherwise. I belong to a group of free-thinking people, and I will always argue that anyone who thinks differently has the right to state their position, regardless of whether this attitude is critical and whether this attitude criticises me, my political friends, my conversationaries, and whether anyone who raises such an attitude wants to be criticised by DS running to replace the DS in power. It's good when the opposition criticises the government, but it's not good when the opposition has one view of violence, and the authorities have another view of violence. It's not good when anyone wants to abuse violence for some political goals and ideas. I'm undermining, never, taking part in ten years of protests, we weren't guilty of any kind of violence. We protested peacefully, with dignity, explaining our ideas, along with the citizens of this country. I must say, no one has ever seen this country as an enemy country, it's a country of all of us, and none of us have ever experienced the institutions of this country in such a way that it bothers us when the President of the Republic observes a sporting event, when the President of the Assembly observes a sporting event. Look at the countries of the world, the Netherlands, China, Russia, India, Algeria, Libya, Venezuela, all these people, the presidents of these countries and the presidents of the parliaments, watching their sports events, rooting for those people representing those countries, cheering for their team. It was only Serbia that fans of the Serbian team wanted to lynch the Serb goalie. I don't want that kind of picture of Serbia in the world. I want a picture of a stable, strong, free country in which everyone has the right to state their position, whether it's a minority or a majority. It was hard sometimes in Serbia to be a minority. Someone who was an intellectual should have been faced with the critical attitude of the environment because of their minority opinion, but those people who were once minorities and who were burned at the stake because they were a minority at the time of the Inquisition were persecuted in other times, these people set the principles of democracy and freedom, civil freedom. Thanks to these people, we have today's modern civilization as it is. Our country Serbia will be part of that civilization, because it has a future, and hooligans have a future in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45626	National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45627	We started work today at 10:00 p.m. and, behold, after two and a half hours of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS still cannot come in line and explain its amendment to Article 1. Although you haven't yet called me by amendment to Article 1, I had to answer and tell you that this is exactly the kind of behavior that leads to the threat of the rights of some minority groups, because if today it's allowed to replicate for two and a half hours, it's okay for the Rules of Procedure, and in some other cases it's not possible, let's ask the question of whether it depends on our mood, or whether it's your mood, or whether it depends on the scheduled time to vote in the afternoon, so that people don't waste time around the city, but to sit here and to open up all sorts of issues and then be accused of all of us sitting here equally to open up all kinds of questions. I want to talk about the amendment to Article 1, but first of all, I have to say that the amendment of the law in its essence and contained is not about whether one member is changing or changing five members. The law can be changed by one member so that it is abolished, that its fact ceases. So let's not mix the essence and form. Article 1 extends the length of detention to a maximum of 30 days, with eight. It is not unacceptable for you, Madam Minister, to say that the proposed provision overcomes the problems that arise in practice in the case of multiple suspects and when it is necessary to determine the detention measure within the short time period provided for by the current Law and that it is simply not possible to do so because you do not have time to carry out the investigations. One conclusion is that a bad estimate has been made in determining originally this eight-day deadline. That's allowed. Every law shows that it is impossible to implement it in practice only when we begin to apply it. That's why there's an institution to amend and supplement laws, laws or any act. So it's not unacceptable to change this deadline, but what are the reasons we do it for and for what purpose? To go back to what is indisputable to all of us. Every aggression and every violence undisputed in its essence contains fear. There, I will be happy to agree with my colleague Novo Sadjanka, a fellow citizen, Mrs. Komic – yes, aggression and violence stem from fear. But we can't look so closely when we say that violence at sports events, or otherwise in society, arises from someone's fear, and that when the state, applying its measures of coercion and coercion, otherwise permitted, applies to such an extent that it itself shows impotence, or fear... So I insist on the objectivity of all of us, to be as objective as possible in assessing the reasons for these measures, because we are still the most legislative body here, regardless of which parties we come from. But if you say that the international reputation or reputation in Serbia's international community is being threatened by violence, for example, in Genoa, or at the time of globalisation becomes available to everyone in the world, I ask – and what is more difficult is the threat of Serbia's reputation in international relations, that or when everyone makes a remark that, even though the European Court of Human Rights and the Committee for Human Rights of the UN allow, and also our Constitution, that in the event of a violation of guaranteed human and minority rights, the violent collapse of order and the cause of racial, national and religious hatred may be limited to some human rights, but that the court must have evidence that under the parallel of some association that these rights are being threatened by such offences? Why do you come from both the international community and a large number of experts in the local public, out of a large number of MPs, independently from which parliamentary groups come, from which you are not quite right when you claim that Serbia's international reputation has been undermined by riots and not by excessive restrictions on human rights, which is not in line with those views of the UN Human Rights Committee and the European Court? Do you know what they say and declare these gentlemen at the time of globalisation? Unfortunately, and fortunately for all of us, we're all able to follow the grades of what's going on here about this law. Public calls for the court to react quickly or "seriously" could be sufficient in front of the courts that I have cited, internationally, of which our reputation depends, for the ban to be challenged as a decision made under pressure. What do you say? I am much more concerned about why so much anger, such indignation in defending the amendments and supplementation of this code, in defending one's minority rights, which cannot be compared with the necessary strength in defending the rights of minority shareholders. I've never heard of anyone from the Democratic Party rebelling at the time of the abolition of minority shareholders' rights in the Commercial Bank, which, the day before we changed the law here, experienced the abolition of their minority rights as one of the basic human rights and freedoms, which is the property right to action and to make them available to them. What's that measure of defending someone's minority right? Why is a man's right to work the least in this country? Why isn't this a debate where everyone comes in, and they all contribute to their observations, to the suggestions that we can arrange this country the way there can be a lot of concrete laws, that we're a well-organized country that's progressing? Why is it that more and more the countries of Serbia are reaching for methods that are not even investing in the people, which are allowed and in long human history, is not even courting the people, but is beginning to be forbidden and ordered? Do you know what that looks like? To the parent whom the child asks – can I go out and play with the children, for example, it's seven in the evening, and the father says – you can't. The child asks – why? My father says because I say so. It is often similar to 126 votes that, without reason why it is necessary to do something, but only with the power of the ruling majority, reach more and more often after bans. Can you treat Article 23 differently? The Law on the National Assembly, in which the ruling majority mirrored the state of the ruling coalition and the committees, in which it showed that the minority, the congregation opposition, did not need everything under the company of efficiency? Can you expect someone to have a well-intentioned protection of minority rights if they start breaking down here? Do you think no one can see that? Or do you think the audience's ratings are so small, or the level of citizens at such a small level of intelligence, that it takes some Keka to remind them how difficult they are to live and whether they should and in what way they should express dissatisfaction? I do not claim to represent all of Serbia, I do not pretend to know what every citizen thinks, I do not claim to express my emotions, love for sport or music, as others do, precisely because I respect everyone's individual and personal determination to do it the way he likes it most, most pleasantly, most politely. I also ask the authorities to understand that when you ask for the detention to be extended from eight days to thirty days and write in the light of the law that no additional financial means are required, for the fifth time, please do not underestimate the intelligence of mature people. How can this larger number of people to whom you need to determine responsibility, so you can press charges, not burden the prison, the register, the food and everything else that exists in prison? Or do you work with some law of probability – let one go, leave the other in custody, so that you can use the full capacity you have completed anyway? Do you know, Mrs. Malovic, the respected justice ministers, how much from this country's budget account has been paid (I only know about the Vojvodina area, and I ask you if you know) about the unwarranted deprivement of freedom and too long in the custody of petty criminals and those for whom, during the time of detention, could not press charges, those with whom drugs were found, or did they commit any other criminal acts? I'm saying, every one of us has to think before he talks, he has to use his words carefully. And the government has to take care of the most when it decides to pass the law, to set a deadline and to think about it, and it has all the capacities, you've modernised yourself, you've got a lot of resources to do, whether you're able to apply the law; when you change it, do you have the means to implement it. Above all, if you've determined, I don't have the security to claim it, but you should have, if you claim that a large number of minors are there, can after such measures and holding in custody someone who hasn't yet formed a personality (so I'm talking about minors) be well-experienced and directed in the right direction? Since the time Plato wrote the work “The State” is said to children and unformed personalities of some truth, although uncontested, must not show the naked, their young organism and mind are not ready to accept them. It's like when kids ask you what it means to swear, and you have to be skillful not to illustrate the curse, but to explain the curse as an ugly act. One parent who's well-intentioned must also have skills. I don't want to doubt the well-meaning of this country, but you lack skill. You miss getting in trouble, getting involved in solving violence, and showing all the vulnerable groups in this country that you're fighting for their minority rights. I claim that man's dignity is most endangered by taking away his right to work. The constitution says slavery is forbidden, and when someone can't work, earn a salary and buy his child bread, he is an obvious slave. The least you can do is fight it, and the least of those laws are coming into this congregation. This law, in which you write that the struggle for orderly Serbia is defined by the amendment, by saying that you will have it settled for those who act as acts that can be characterized as violence, and that in no single word do you more precisely explain how this violence is defined, you know what it looks like? Like when you say - the state owns a significant amount of action in a company. What's a significant measure for you? Maybe some number - 25%, a significant measure for me is maybe 30%. Whether or not someone will answer to the competent state authorities can't depend on your and my point of view, but on the precise measure. Today we have a story about a monopoly, where we ask whether it's a monopolies, so it's 47%, or 30% dominant. Well, there's no statistical office, no government report, no government report where numbers are comparable and where it's possible to punish someone precisely in cash based on them, which is a lot less damage, no matter how much it costs. Imagine, you will direct someone's life, someone of 16 years, someone of 20, someone of 50 years, by just saying: violence, and you won't even have enough explanations, as we have in the Traffic Safety Act, where we even characterized what a violent drive is. Tell me, please, does this law deserve to be adopted in this congregation, however much violence is necessary to limit and fight it everywhere and in every place? We must always go from our skills to our good intentions, but the path to hell is paved by good intentions, we need your results. This is what the citizens of Serbia pay you for, and we expect it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45628	You used the time of an authorised representative and you used it. In a good eloquent manner, you also mentioned the Law on the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure, and that there was an arbitrary session. I'd like to say that strictly respecting the law and Rules of Procedure we're having a session and there's a little subjective to it. He has the discretionary right of the chairman to assess the right to replication, but I think we're trying absolutely to make it by the standards, for all things equally. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45629	Madam President, Madam Minister, what is characteristic today in Serbia is that Serbia today has such a situation that its normative instability and inflation of regulations and laws is so large that there is no judge who can apply these laws in this country. I'd just like to remind you of what this instability is all about. The state needs to pass good laws. The state needs to pass laws that can be applied, a state that can have an effective judiciary and an effective fight against organised crime. When you watch when Germany has passed the criminal code, then you have to ask yourself, Madam Minister, what is it that guides you every month, every six months or every year we go to the amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Germany passed a fundamental law in 1877, whose standards apply today, France 1958, Belgium in 1808, Switzerland in 1934, Italy 1989, England and Wales in 1888, Switzerland in 1887, Sweden in 1948, and with this criminal code is one of the countries that have stable, firm and modern procedural legislation. What this country needs, and I believe that you as a minister can ask a question and initiate the procedure of amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, you don't have to on this project that's in place, but in this future one that's being passed as a lecture, which represents one lecturing rather than a serious project, I would suggest that you provide in the new CAP maximum detention time for individual crimes. The legislator does not approach this provision, nor does he do this job. Our procedural legislation must set the maximum time limit for determining detention. There's now so much manipulation here that you give the possibility of -- to, but after the prosecution, as you can see, you can hold someone for forty years in custody. This should be limited, that the competent courts, whether basic, higher and other instance, judge within a reasonable time and that the law should be applied because we have regulations. This change absolutely brings nothing. I have to tell you, this is a temporary daily policy measure. This is the measure in which political parties in power should now show and demonstrate how they are ready to protect citizens' rights. Yes, I am, but before the law and the Constitution, all citizens must be equal. It must be equal to those who committed certain acts on October 10th, but that the judicial authorities have the same rights and obligations to process those as of October 5th. There's no difference there. That's what the Constitution says, and the earlier Constitution that was at the time, and the present Constitution. What is characteristic, Mr. Martinovic has given you one serious remark, and I will supplement it. Violent behavior, that's the provision of article 344. I ask the judge, even if you, Mrs Malovic, were a judge, as you come from the judiciary, you were a lawyer: please, will the decision of any judge, the sentence of the verdict to read – a criminal act with a element of violence? Where does that say? Or, violent behavior, as in Article 344? No decision... Lawyership and defense will surely stand up to this. This could be the subject of a hearing before an international court or a constitutional court. I don't see this giving any results. This amendment you adopted, it's one nonsense. Violence, every violence... First of all, you can now characterize it as violence and if there is a fight of owners and pirate fans in Mokrin. If they fight, here you are now, these citizens in Mokrin can be responsible for violent behavior. Under such a qualification of provisions you can also include any violation of public order and peace. Someone can grab someone's neck, somebody can grab someone's beard, somebody can grab someone's ear, they can slap him, they can push him. Now someone is going to say - I qualify this as an act of violence. Violence shouldn't be abused so much. We haven't had much to do lately. We don't do business, we don't deal with social problems. You see how long it's been and how wasted precious time is wasted, without any results. There's no point here, there's no score, I can absolutely tell you that. Remember when "Sabbe" updated the arrest of 12,000 people, what did we have? Mrs. Malovic, at that time, you were able to track certain statistics. If 12,500 people were arrested and brought in, how many were convicted? You remember, maybe you didn't get a chance to go to prison control then and visit people, people in prisons not that they couldn't have what was fundamental to them under the European Convention, they didn't have a bed, they didn't have anywhere to sit, and many of them stood for days and days because they didn't have anywhere. Mrs. Malovic, our prisons are full. If this is the only goal and intention, to arrest Serbia, to show that we are democratic government, it is not good. Known theorists say what democracy is: democracy is a well-organised minority over the disorganised and disproved majority. This has been recorded, and today in many countries it is also commented in works written by experts from this right. I can tell you that what you're doing right now is a mark of the laws on terrorism; with Dr Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, I have prevented him from passing. Mrs. Malovic, this is the project, which was due in 2000, when the leaders of DOS political parties were scheduled to go to jail, and to violate international rights and the Serbian Constitution... Dr. Vojislav Seselj and I and the ministers in the federal government... As federal minister at the time, I should have prepared the bill and submitted it to the government for approval and the Assembly to vote it. That's what I've been up against, because I've seen it's not democracy, and the leaders of political parties can act as leaders of political parties, and political parties. I thought it was my duty. Secondly, it is, above all, the security of conditions for democracy, and the prevention of torture and dictatorship. This is the project that is being implemented in some countries. This project, at the time, that we accepted it and we didn't say - we're leaving the government if you guys keep pushing this... We stopped it from coming. Do you know what would happen? They would have been arrested, the equipment of all the political parties they used in their campaigns would have been taken away. It would have been taken away from all those funds Soros was sending from abroad, via Hungary. We'd go to jail a lot. We disagreed because we would participate in something that is against the constitution and is not democratic. That's why we decided, as ministers in the federal government, to prevent this evil and that there was no rematchism, regardless of what we were thinking and what our programs didn't agree on. This is for the public, for your knowledge, gentlemen of the position that you were once in opposition. It's a project that was supposed to send many to prison and to long-term prison. As you can see, Serbian radicals prevented it, behaved in one democratic and true way, obeyed the rules, above all, of conduct and fought for the rights of our citizens. Madam President, it is characteristic that this amendment and supplement does not meet the criteria of legal norm. First of all, every legal norm, whether conditional or unconditional, general or individual, consists of two basic elements: disposition and sanctions. Disposition and sanctions are both rules of conduct. However, these are alternative rules of conduct, i.e. apply either one or the other. It is not applied either, precisely because of certain elements and the ease of its application. What have we been doing since 2000 and 2001 in the federal government, when we were in power with the SPS? We worked to strengthen human rights and freedom. By passing, for the first time, the Code of Criminal Procedure, we tried to codify, and I see that after that, by proposing other amendments and additions, you accepted codification, and as a result now we have the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll remind you of the markings of that code. One of the most important, in all respects, characteristics of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted the following year, in 2001, when you came to power (in fact, it is the law that was done in the group, in the Federal Ministry of Justice, with experts and prosecutors, judges, professors of the university etc.) It was that he, not in a small degree, contributed to a series of his solutions to strengthening human freedoms and rights, and it was primarily through the increase in the rights of the suspect. Look, please, that's important, we're strengthening the right of the suspect and the defendant, and we're also strengthening the defense, the lawyership, because the lawyer is an integral part of the justice system in every state, including ours. Compared to the previous 1976 Code of Criminal Procedure, it is freely said that he, viewed from this aspect, went not just one but more steps ahead and that as such, he was placed in the order of contemporary, repeat, modern, democratic criminal-processing legislation. This was the first time democracy was measured in one country by a valid processive, i.e. to criminal legislation, whether it is criminal, legal, i.e. Criminal Code of Criminal Procedure, or it's the Law of Infractions. Now I'd like to say something about strengthening repressivity. Unlike the 2001 Criminal Procedure Act, as I have already said, it could be seen that it is characterized by an extremely large degree of civil rights protection – the largest number of changes and additions, beware of this, our criminal-processing legislation, and especially those related to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, is characterised by the strengthening of the repression, i.e. the insistence of legislators to increase the efficiency of procedural law by increasing repressivity. I absolutely don't think it's going to get much or anything that's relevant to our citizens. On the other hand, you see... (President: Use the third minute group, just to tell you that you used 15 minutes. How much time is there? (President: The group has forty minutes, and you have spent 15 minutes as a representative and have used three minutes since the time of your parliamentary group. All right, so much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45630	Thank you. MP Zeljko Tomic has a word. Just to ask you to re-apply, everyone who wants to follow this amendment, because the system can't accept all applications.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45631	Dear President, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be extremely brief. Today we heard from representatives of the ruling coalition, about this topic, a lot of replacement thesis. The day before yesterday, I asked one question, and my speech will consist only in repeating that question. You have always used, in 100% of cases, one phrase or one phrase, which is – European standards. I ask you also to convince the opposition and the public of Serbia that European standards are being seen in these amendments and additions, from which EU countries you have taken over this solution. Is this an EU country? No, that's what this is about. Your mouths are full of Europe, but there is no Europe in changing and supplementing this law. There's the point and there's the point. There were countries that were trying to do something like this, getting tough pucks from both the Council of Europe and many other European institutions. I don't know what this is all about. Justice is where it is. You say it's reformed. We've heard some European officials say it's not like that. Today they're just trying to follow some European standards we haven't heard. We can't even hear it, because I expect you not to lie to so many citizens, that you can't say that this is according to some European standards, because it just isn't. There is no Europe in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45632	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45633	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see why there's a reservation under the amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because in Art. 30 and 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has defined certain things regarding the possibility of determining detention and how this is done, with the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article 141 being sufficiently clear, so that detention can only be determined by a court decision, under the conditions laid down in this Code, if detention is necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings and if the same purpose cannot be achieved by another measure. We point out to those who are not lawyers, who were not in a position to follow in general procedural provisions in criminal proceedings, that there are measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings, by calling, by bringing, by prohibiting the leaving of the apartment or place of residence, by guarantee, including detention. In any case, I think in certain situations there is a need to, in the sense of an uninterrupted conduct of a criminal procedure and to provide for detention, to allow for the possibility of determining detention. I'd like to point out that it's in article 141. The Code of Criminal Procedure clearly states that the duty of all authorities involved in criminal proceedings and bodies providing legal assistance to detain the tribunal for the shortest time necessary. Here we are talking about whether there is a possibility of determining detention, in terms of legal possibility, but, in any case, and if legal possibility is allowed, custody will be determined in any particular case in relation to the shortest necessary time. It's precisely in procedures where there is a possible arrest that is the duty of all authorities to deal with the particular urgency, so if the defendant is in custody. This is clearly in the position of Article 2 141. The Code of Criminal Procedure, while paragraph 3 of that same article explicitly states: “In the course of the entire proceedings, detention will be lifted as soon as the reasons on which it was established ceases. ” I note that there is no automation in the context of the proposed changes – if there is a possibility of determining detention, that it will be determined, because the reasons for determining detention are prescribed in point 5) of Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure is cumulative, so they must be common in order to determine detention. I see no reason why there is a certain reserve to be made possible, especially in a situation where detention is justified because of particularly difficult circumstances of a criminal offence and when there is clearly violence when such actions are carried out. I don't know why we're afraid, if we trust the good and safe conduct of the judges, to make something possible, an opportunity that should contribute to the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. I think that the protection of society is better achieved if we allow us to determine the facts of the situation in a quick, efficient way, because sometimes, regardless of what the exception should be, some time it is necessary to determine the detention to ensure all of that, in order for the procedure to be handled uninterrupted. In any case, I don't see a reason, as a man who comes from a lawyer, who comes from a judiciary, that once possible, means by opening up the possibility that a detention can be determined, that in any way the rights of any individual are violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45634	Thank you. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45635	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Justice Minister (I will use that time on behalf of the party), if what happened on October 10th, such changes and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure could be considered by us from the opposition, and I believe the vast majority of citizens, part of the judicial reform. But, let's not lie to ourselves, it's because of what happened on October 10th on the streets of Belgrade. That's why I'm here, and I'll explain why. So, because of the souls who want to turn my words that I speak these days into something else, I have to say this already famous sentence, which our home education requires, to condemn all criminals and everyone who broke the law and stole. Madam Minister of Justice, I'm telling you now as a mother, I'm talking about children who have been on the streets of Belgrade who have some vision of the values of this society and have done nothing and have been arrested. You, as Minister of Justice, would have to advocate their rights. Are they respected now in custody and in prison? I didn't hear any state authorities say anything. In your jurisdiction are both prisons or, as they are called, you're being seduced by criminal sanctions. We know that there are people convicted of the most monstrous crimes and convicted, practically, of life imprisonment, for 40 years. The state is concerned, because so does international law, both human rights and the degree of civilization that nations live on today, to see how these people live there. There's nothing to argue about. Why is it so controversial for someone from the opposition to ask what's wrong with those arrested, how many are there? Is it true, Madam Minister, that over a thousand minors have been brought in these days, and their parents? So, those who weren't on the streets that day, they're in some kind of contact, phone call, some flyer, or I don't know how, with people who've been arrested. Does anyone have a right to ask what's wrong with those kids? I say it proudly and courageously, it's about to be brave to say it. I don't know why. I don't know where human rights organizations are. Human rights must be respected, obviously, and the greatest criminals, let alone some of the children who were on the streets, just as they were mistaken. But I think we're forgetting why they went out into the streets. So, I'm not talking about those who shot the police, broke windows and robbed, I'm talking about those kids who got out of the protest, because of what the state organized on October 10th, media aggressively, challenging those kids for a month and a half on purpose. So, you've reached your goal. I'm not telling you personally. With my soul, I speak with honesty to you, because I believe that you are a woman of honor, however you understand this, and that it is worth telling you. So someone, Big Brother, has achieved that 15 days of not talking about why there is no milk in this country, why there is no oil, why people live the way they live. But it can't go on forever. Why did I say I was a little troubled that the occasion of October 10th and what happened on October 10th? Wouldn't you, Madam Minister, and this government's drug dealing make a more logical cause for these changes and additions to the law to be proposed? It is done at this moment who knows how many places in the cities of Serbia, now, here, at 1:12 p.m. Isn't that the reason to bring restrictive measures, restrictive laws, but youth that we happen to know are right-wing and are against the ruling coalition? Then we'll call them right-handed, hooligans, lowlifes, thugs. And I say, everyone who calls them that is fascists; not just because of the shirt they're going to, on purpose. Those who call those children that are real fascists. Madam Minister, last night I received four French channels of translation as they report what is happening in France at this time – there are students, students, workers and trade unions on the streets, and they are state and semi-state, and all the media are reporting. And our media says they're on the streets of France, especially Lyon, students, students and dissatisfied citizens. This is where the fascists and the hooligans are. How's that? Maybe because of the color these protests are under in France, because there's a red flag with a sickle and a hammer. Is that why these protests are so treated here in the media, and these are treated like thugs, hooligans, bastards? I think you, as a government, as a regime, are not personally, a little too quickly afraid of what might be. I don't dispute the right of the state to, when it comes to certain values, both public order and peace, pass a restrictive law, but why didn't you bring these amendments and additions to the law because of drug dealing, because it's done with our children and at this point? Thank God, I don't have information that there's violence on the streets right now, but drugs are being dealt from minute to minute, in front of schools, and we all know that. And it wasn't a reason to bring amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure? That's why I doubt the reason you're bringing this in. Tomorrow someone will take out a people who are unhappy on the streets. We from opposition are on the verge of patience, and in the end, the people will clean us up if we don't do what we have to do. The opposition will eventually have to do, to make these big gatherings, to see what the people tell you. You will then send a dozen hooligans who will break, and we will all, and all the people, be treated so. We've seen this for ten years, from 1990 to 2000. That's why I said I was ashamed. What can I say to them now, what Milosevic said to the "Resistance"? You are under arrest, gentlemen of the Resistance who are sitting here because of the flyer "it's over", which is why you're under arrest. And today, children are arrested, students, for some other flyers. It's their youth, it's their rebellion. So, I condemn violence, but to be arrested for having a flyer, which the name does not like Boris Tadic, the Democratic Party or this government that organised "The Parade of Pride" and which caused everything in Belgrade... Do not deny even that minority that they have the human rights to come together, I must, Madam Minister, remind you of what young people are infuriating, by my assessment, because I have spoken to many, as you have young people in the party and you talk to them – they cannot accept selective justice. That's what we policy-makers can do, so we're more experienced, so we're more prone to compromises, and young people won't accept that. They won't accept that a war criminal accused of 51 soldiers, a Serb, were in Tuzla for those years, was released and some others were in prison. They won't accept it. They won't accept, Madam Minister, the treatment in the media as if the police in Novi Pazar were being targeted by sponges and Styrofoam. Aren't the rocks and ticks softer there, Madam Minister? And then some of the "Karleusa Party" here intervene to let some of them go there, so there will be no bloodshed in that part of Serbia. That's why I said I was ashamed, why didn't we all go out to the streets of Belgrade to prevent the injuries of 131 police officers, who suffered neither guilt nor debt. I want to say what I said earlier on the Security Committee, giving the quorum as an opposition MP – I think it is in the citizens' interest to extend the importance of the documents and passports. I was at the Freedom-Red Star game in Luciani on Sunday and there were plenty of police. I've spoken to these people, I've asked many of them if they've been hurt, Madam Minister, by my discussions in the last seven or eight days. No, I'm not saying they're thrilled, but they're not, they realize they don't need to get paid 20% when someone's breaking their heads in Belgrade. But the opposition here for years when the budget is adopted has submitted amendments to raise the salaries of the police, that is, the children who work in the police. Why don't we do it? Because we have agencies under your authority, not your own, but under the government, where about 500 people were employed. Well, the C.I.A. could increase by 50%, if we were to lift that fracture from the agencies, which no one else alive knows what they're doing, they're mostly party people. Therefore, they cannot watch when a great human rights fighter in downtown Belgrade slaps an older man and then is released in court. By what right? I know that law and justice are not the same, nor can I compete with you in that, but by what justice will that child of 18 years be laid in prison, and that lady who slapped a man in downtown Belgrade to be freed from the pomp and that you celebrate and share with her today various rewards? Therefore, those who were hooligans on October 10th, robbed, hit the police, were convicted, but let innocent children go. Half of them are innocent; they only lie there because ideologically they disagree with you, only because they are against "The Parade of Pride". Look at public services and television in the surrounding countries – they give the other side, even fans, to say what they mean. One of your bards here, who keeps talking, was recently on one television, spoke to the leader of the Kimmy fans and was intellectually defeated. You can't even talk to them. A dialogue must be conducted with the youth. If any of them aren't worth it, let them go to jail. We have to offer them some perspective, talk to those kids, not arrest them. What are they? The enemies of this country? Or perhaps you want to create enemies of the state? What's next? Now they're gangs, hooligans, and what's next, that they're terrorists? Are we going to pass those laws, treat them like terrorists? Therefore, let the innocent, arrested on October 10th, be released. That's what I'm telling you, as a father of two underage children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45636	Mr. Milivoevich, you've come forward on the amendment, so I wanted to give you my word. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45637	It's not my fault, Mr. Aligrudic, that I belong to a large parliamentary group that has 64 deputies, so we have a lot more time than you do. I don't see any reason to protest, and I can talk all the time my MP group has. Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, primarily the citizens of Serbia, I will continue to talk about this amendment. If anyone considers that someone's rights in prison are compromised, while being a member of the Security Committee, let them initiate an initiative that MPs of the Security Committee visit and are arrested in prison and see what their human rights are, whether they are threatened or not, and see what kind of treatment they have in prison. The day before "The Pride Parade" was a protest organised by the Serbian Parliament "The Dvori". Has anyone been arrested in that protest? Was there anyone who ran against the government, who ran against the president of the Republic, who ran against certain ministers and politicians at the protest? It's not familiar to me. The arrest took place only after the violence in Genoa and after violence on the streets of Belgrade. I'm not a court, I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not an investigative authority to conduct an investigation, I'm not going to do it as a MP. Right, I was on a TV show with a face I didn't know was condemned. Mr. Markicevic, I don't think I'm intellectually defeated by a man who's been sentenced to a year and six months in prison because he's been running -- you're as poisonous as a snake, you're going to pass as Curuvija. If I'd known he'd been convicted for a year and six months, I'd never have sat in the studio with him, because I think we folk MPs, people of the Serbian Orthodox Church and respected athletes have nothing to look for on TV shows with people who are calling for another murder of another Slavko Curuvija. Serbia is many and one Slavko Curuvija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45638	Mr Markicevic, what is the basis for the announcement?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45639	Replica. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, whatever anyone thinks of Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic on this side, I will at the good part of his discussion, understand his message, to thank you. This is the first time in seven, eight, ten days since October 10th that someone on this side advocates respect for human rights arrested. I accept what you said, Mr. Milivojevic, and I ask you, Madam President, to make a delegation of the National Assembly and visit the prisons of the arrested people and that youth, to see how they are treated, and who is still being arrested and detained by minors in this country. That's one thing. Second, Mr. Milivoevich, you're thinking of Kimi; Kimi's a smart guy, he'll defend himself. But wasn't there a face sitting next to you at the game of our team physically attacking a UEFA representative at a stadium in Belgrade? (President: Just don't speak to the MP, please.) Here, I'll talk to you. He had Mr. Milivojevic sitting next to him. But they're double arches. Since this man, we know by what nickname he is known as, a member of the Democratic Party's General Committee, he is allowed to do so. Why did you sit by the face that was in front of the cameras... And our country is so misrepresented in the world, that the physical delegate... (President: please, Mr. Krasic. () Is it possible, then, that Sava, I do not know what his nickname is, that he is doing, a member of the Democratic Party's board, in a box? Imagine, attacking UEFA representatives! That didn't bother you, Mr. Milivoevich. The miracle you didn't remember what that Mr. Kimmy said, that nine cops testified that he wasn't singing that song, and he was convicted. Gentlemen, and this is one example, you fear them because they are not for you. Think carefully about why they're not for you. They're the waxes that pop the whole nation, remember that. Not by the works they do, but by what they say. The dissatisfaction of citizens is great, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45640	Replica, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45641	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, so that there will be no disagreement. Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will never accept that the voice of the people - you are as poisonous as a snake, you will pass as Curuvija. It will never be the majority voice of the people in Serbia. Whatever anyone thinks of fans, it will always be a marginal group that calls for violence. I'd be happy to report to the prison with you, Mr Markicevic. I've been in prison 45 times, I know what prison looks like, and I have no problem going along with you, even though you're in opposition, to go to jail and visit all the arrested. I thank you for your initiative to do this together. I'd love to. There's no problem. Because we have advocated that congregation committees oversee the work of executive bodies, so that we have the right to control some prison sanctions. Again, let's not identify those people who call death, violence, murder with anyone. As far as I'm aware and as informed as I am, Savo Milosevic is not a convicted person, nor a convicted person in this country, nor, as far as I know, is any action against him. For me, he's a representative of Serbia. If you feel that he has committed any crime, you can personally press charges against him. You have the right, as a citizen, to say - I file criminal charges, to know that someone has committed a crime. Please give it to the D.A., not to this Parliament. Anyone who thinks someone committed a crime should inform the prosecution, then parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45642	Madam Minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45643	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a duty to say, given that the Department of Criminal Sanctions is located within the Ministry of Justice, that we have no problem having anyone to make a visit, unrelated to whether it will be the Security Committee or any other, international organisation, the Protector of Citizens or other bodies who are authorized by law. It is another opportunity to see how to treat detained and imprisoned persons within the Criminal Penalty Administration and to see that everything provided for by law and international standards is respected. I will also point out that we are under the constant monitoring of the Committee against the torture of the Council of Europe, that we are trying to improve the situation in our prisons, so... Please visit.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45644	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am sorry that certain colleagues (I am reporting, of course, on the amendment) have come out, because here we need to clarify some things after these discussions and legally. I think the acceptance of the Liberal Democratic Party amendment, Madam Minister, and the separation of only this crime in relation to other crimes, where the threatened sentence was identical, and the making of a graduation which is more difficult by determining the length of detention is not good in practice. I think there may be some other crimes that we've exempt now from this law, which may pose a greater social danger, but of course, time will show. Once again, I want to point out, and in the debate in principle, I have pointed out that there was no reason to extend custody to 30 days, because eight days is quite enough to carry out investigative activities. I'm absolutely sure, and in practice this was shown, you'll see that they'll decide in teat, on days 25, 26 or 27, that prosecutors (now they're "soft" with this deadline) will wait for the last moment. Nothing's gonna change that, whether it's 5 or 6 or 25, 26 and 27 days. You know that the prosecutor is not even obliged to be present in the trial. Simple, efficient courts, effective prosecutions could certainly... There's a problem, that's probably why this law is changing. Simply, the length of the detention won't solve anything. Because the D.A. could've suggested an extension of custody eight days later, and we had it in practice. We had in practice that this kind of work is going very quickly even to the maintenance of the sentence and that the courts were doing the right thing. I'm really afraid, if we keep this up, practically by scaring the people, that soon we'll have a bill here in Parliament to declare 15-16-year-olds, that we're going to lower the threshold by 18. I don't think that's good. We had one correct proposal in the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'll mention it one more time, if there was room and something like this was going to change, this is the fifth, sixth time we've changed the CAP, last year we've brought it in radically, we've had good co-operation, even, the opposition and the authorities, I think it might have been a time to complete... I'm sure it would have been easier. This way, when all MPs run to parliament for one initial event, it is not correct and it is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45646	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Comic wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45647	Thank you. In the debate on the principle of the amendment law and the amendments to my presentation, I began and ended with a desire for the competent committees and representatives of the Government to accept amendments that make a much better solution, because the amendment which it clearly states is... That is, for over five years for a crime with an element of violence. As far as I can see and how much I am following the dialogue and debate between the Committee and the Government's representatives, this amendment will be adopted and, more specifically, it will be given a provision that was in the basic text of the amendments and the addition of the bill. Then why am I taking the word and in the part of the discussion in particular? Because this is an event that I see as important for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because we have a basic bill on amendments and amendments to one opposition group, hence amendments submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic, Slobodan Maras, Kenan Hajdarevic, who gives a much better solution, and because dialogue is being established to establish this solution. If we can, we should learn a few lessons from this case, given that, at all speaking, it is a subject of a provision of this law that reveals in our mutual debates much more than is written in two articles that are being amended and amended by the law and which reveals much more than we can in this debate say, as regards the context of Serbia 2010 in which we are changing the Code of Criminal Procedure today. Another good thing I would like to remember is that the dialogue between the opposition and the representatives of the government is always possible and desirable, because it always ends up giving a better solution than it was originally. Why didn't we have a good bill of law right away from the Ministry's representatives? It is a topic for all of us and, with one small digression, it is a topic that I am opening on committees that I belong to and on committees whose draft laws are of great interest to me (the Committee for European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection), on which I have asked and will ask every representative of the ministry to explain how they amend and supplement the amendments proposed by the National Assembly to improve the state of end-user compared to the existing provisions. Any representative of the ministry who cannot answer has a choice: or to accept an amendment that will be submitted by any MP of the opposition or any MP of the ruling majority, or to give a meaningful answer. I am pleased that this example is when one of the two good solutions has been chosen, repeating that the representatives of the executive authority are obliged to answer the question – and what better will happen to the users for whom you propose amendments and amendments to the law... So a good answer to that question is also the correct answer to how much (or not) is applied selectively to any law that we have and how much trouble we all have as a society and a state because the laws are not applied. Why don't the laws apply? Why didn't we have an effective application of the previous provisions of the bill? It is part of a broader context that we do not have time to talk about within this law, because it is on the verge of respect for the Rules of Procedure, but it seems quite clear to me that we, when it comes to executive power, when it comes to judicial authority and even when it comes to us, the legislative authority in Serbia, have a problem with what I call a negative conflict of jurisdiction; it is easy to say "it is not my job, it is someone else's business". In this gap between the various people whose job is actually, if there is room to say “it’s not my job, it’s someone else’s, it’s the selective application of the law, it’s the failures that we see when the number of failures grows up enough to be unbearable or to challenge someone to say, ‘Wait, it’s my job, let’s solve that problem.’ Hence, the sentence “is not my job” and the shouting and stalling of the problem has no benefit at all. From the sentence "this is my job, let me do it" we all benefit. To conclude, listening to very carefully debates and in principle debates and now in particular, I pray all colleagues, all who are calling for human rights, who are calling for the construction of a rule of law where human rights, civil rights, freedoms of man and citizen will be respected, that once we all adopt that all those arrested are innocent. As long as we have MPs in this room who know some of them are innocent, and some of them aren't innocent, we have a problem with the enormous ignorance that they're all under arrest, whatever you're personally thinking about the reasons someone's arrested for. All were arrested innocent during the trial. If we ourselves in this building, in this room we claim to know who's innocent and who's not arrested, we encourage violence. I can't let that happen, because it's not even a question of our common obligation to know what innocence is, it's a question of our ethical attitudes to defend the right of all those arrested to be innocent until in the end of the trial, it's a matter of our ethical attitudes to defend the right of all of them to be innocent until they're found guilty, it's a verdict, until it becomes a judicial one. We MPs create public opinion, we bear responsibility for a spoken word. The subject of this law will be a criminal offence with the elements of violence of those who commit violence. The subject of this law must not be and will not be anyone who does not act on the elements of violence. Freedom of speech, freedom of protest is not an act of violence. Let us help everyone by first, by saying that we know what a package of human rights is that this country wants to implement daily, to start talking – all of them arrested are innocent until all the instances in the state are uncontested by their guilt and they are being punished by law. In the desire that we all reduce the number of times together when we say "it's not my job, it's someone else's doing it" and in the desire that we should all show together with our speech, carefully choosing words, to respect the human rights of the arrested, I thank you once again, with the hope that each change and supplement will pass with the co-operation of the opposition and the representatives of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45648	I thank Vice President Gordani Komic. To those who have already spoken of this amendment, I will not be able to give my word again, but Mr Milos Aligrudic will be given his word. It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45649	All right. So, first of all, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and protest are not criminal acts, so no elements of violence in this context are considered. When it comes to crimes, many crimes contain elements of violence. Since violence is not defined here, Semanticly speaking, violence can be verbal, and therefore the crime of offense can appear as a crime with a element of violence, because when you hurt someone in this way, psychologically, you commit appropriate violence against him. In the sociological sense and in terms of science involved in the study of psychology, the elements of domestic violence are not only elements of physical violence but also of other types of violence. So crimes such as issuing a note without cover can be considered as crimes without the elements of any violence, but many are crimes with elements of violence. That is why, when it comes to this amendment, which allegedly improves the text of the law, under one, indefinity as a legal standard of the concept of "an element of violence" in the description of a criminal offence, which we do not find in the Criminal Code, but now we find it, since you will adopt this, in the newly published provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, does not find its foothold. That in the future, if this survives in our legal order, such a provision, will be interesting to study at law school. When it comes to the meaning and basic text of the law and the amendment text, I keep saying that, in my opinion, it all makes no sense. The detention is a college measure and, according to Article 30. The Constitution, a person suspected of committing a criminal offence, may only be detained on the basis of the court's decision, if detention is necessary for the conduct of the criminal proceedings, and then the law discusses that provision and talks about it. Our legislation of the newer age, unlike the old socialist, has abolished mandatory detention. We had a mandatory and university detention earlier today, we don't have one. Today, all we have is a college detention. What does he mean? This means that the judge will assess, the court estimates when he will put someone in custody to ensure that criminal proceedings are conducted. If there's no reason for that, he won't put it on. So in the first part, I said that, by its nature and nature, the importance of detention in our legal system is the very provision of attitude 5, which says that someone can be detained, that the judge can decide to detain someone, for those two cumulative reasons referred to in paragraph 5, is also pointless. Because all the other reasons that are listed for the detention, which essentially interfere with criminal proceedings – either we can't determine the identity of the person, or he isn't there, or obviously doesn't want to be present, wants to escape, to cover up evidence of a crime, he wants to commit any other manipulation, only or in connection with other persons involved in the proceedings or crimes themselves – are all the reasons to keep someone in custody. If all these reasons go away, this one, in itself, is absolutely pointless and comes down to retribution. I know that my MP group used to participate in making such a provision when criminal legislation was modeled. I didn't get along with it then, intimately. That's not the point. The thing is: when such a provision already exists in our legislation, and there is another, it is one broad polemic, it is not the controversy of the Serbian parliament, then I see no reason for the border that has been set to ten years is down to five, because nothing in reality is going to change that. If we try to imagine that someone is now being arrested on suspicion of committing a crime in which there are elements of violence and that a prison sentence is being threatened for up to three years, the judge may decide to detain that person, whether or not this censure is reduced, on the moment he determines that the person may want to avoid a call, that there is a risk of escape, that the influence on witnesses will affect the course of the criminal proceedings, etc. There's a lot of reasons for that face to be held in custody. This doesn't have to be the reason. That's why I've been telling you all along about the senselessness of this change. How can you not understand that? How is it possible that you don't understand the elemental logic in this? That's what this is about. When it comes to that second amendment, it's scandalous, so I'll wait until we talk about Article 2. Article 1 isn't even scandalous, it doesn't have any content. That's the essence of the story. That's why I was talking about that political innuendo at first, about some of the intentions behind this. The intentions are political nature, to send a message. To which all the addresses of this message are being sent, via the Serbian Parliament, by the proposings, it was also part of today's debate. We've heard from colleagues of different opinions. But in a legal sense, in terms of how to conduct a criminal procedure, there is no content effect on what is being brought, except that it irritates those who have an understanding of the law and other than that people turn their eyes, respected professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and that students are harassed and that it's not a law. There's no real, substance effect in real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45650	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45651	As soon as I can, I'll take the necessary protection, Madam Minister of Justice. If we are interpreted this way by the Criminal Code, I ask the lawyers, except Aligrudić, who has already announced himself, what can we expect if the law and law are changed in this direction? To clarify Serbia's citizens: something that is an instrument for the application of the Criminal Law introduces a qualification of acts of violence, which is completely inappropriate to this document. I don't agree with you getting criticism on that basis, Madam Minister. I ask you to defend yourself against what is said in your absence. Because the Criminal Code cannot introduce a qualification of work, nor violence, in the way Aligrudic used to say it, but it simply speaks of something that is simplified – a rule on the application of the Criminal Law. Please respond or one of the lawyers react. I'm simply amazed by the interpretation I've heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45652	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said, the amendment solution of colleagues from the Liberal Democratic Party, which the government has accepted, is problematic for several reasons. First, the amendment essentially refers to material and criminal law, to the element of the criminal act and is absolutely declassified in the field of criminal-processing legislation. I'm surprised the government accepted this amendment. The second, much more important reason is that, in practice, such an amendment, which will be incorporated into the CAP, will be applied voluntarily, because there is no definition in the Criminal Code of what violence is. Common sense, violence is every act of one's integrity, both physically and mentally. If we define violence like that, then, let's say, in a criminal act called, say, a petty act of theft, evasion and fraud can be elements of violence. If you pull a wallet out of a pocket in this difficult economic time today where a grandmother who goes to the market has 1,000 dinars, she will not only suffer material damage, but also likely to experience stress, mental pain. Is mental pain affecting someone's physical and psychological integrity? It certainly is. This means that the list of crimes to which such a legal solution will apply is extended beyond reasonable limits. So this isn't just about someone who breaks someone's head, breaks their hand, or causes a serious injury to come under the influence of this provision. Who knows who can come under the influence of this provision, because for one judge, violence can be if you break someone's head with a glass bottle, and for another judge and when you pull your wallet out of his pocket or when you drill the tires in his car. All of this can be an attack on someone's physical, or psychological integrity. In other words, the arbitral unequal application of the law here will be able to take into account, because we have one concept that is not previously defined. As soon as something is not previously defined in a clear way, and this must be defined by the Criminal Code, and not by the Code of Criminal Procedure, we will have a wide field for different and arbitrary interpretation of rights. And where is the arbitrary and unequal interpretation of the right more fatal than when it comes to criminal law? That is why the LDP amendment is inadmissible for us. Here is another question, Mrs Malovic, which has nothing to do with this amendment alone, but with a much more important issue. The old lawyers said: “Jesus the criminal camper est reformandum” – criminal legislation has to be constantly reformed. But I have the impression that with this reform of criminal law, the border has crossed, that the reform of criminal legislation, as Slobodan Jovanovic would say, has been driven to extremes. Namely, if you only take the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this verbal dialectic cannot be understood, so: in the Code of Criminal Procedure, then in the brackets “Official Journal of the SRJ” 70/2001, 68/2002, and then “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia” 58/2004, 85/2005, 115/2005, 49/2007, 20/2009 and 72/2009. Since 2001, eight amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure! What is even more amazing, whenever the Code of Criminal Procedure is changed, the Government tells us – this is now a European standard; whenever the Government comes to the National Assembly it assures us – here we come with a European solution, fully in line with European legislation, with civilization achievements. It doesn't take a year, the bill has to change. Who was wrong? Either the government is wrong today when it claims that this legal solution is in line with European standards or it was wrong, for example, neither 2009 nor 2007, nor 2001 or 2004 or 2005, when it assured us the same way – this is now a European standard. I'm sorry, is it somewhere prescribed what is and what is not a European standard in the area of criminal law, both material and procedural? If so, please, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the next time you submit a bill, do not let the statement of compliance with the regulations of the European Union stand here. This does not show whether this regulation is in line with EU rules or not. Say it - and it is a European standard, we have adopted it or we have not adopted it. It turns out that we make up every year what a European standard is. That's the problem. Essential and biggest problem – whenever criminal legislation is often changed, both materially and processically, it is largely affecting human rights and freedoms. If even in one legal area there is to be a measure of innovation, with changes, with novelty, then it is an area of criminal legislation. Wherever you can deprive a man of some elemental good (that's freedom above all), and that just seems to be criminal legislation, there's a government that has to be very careful when it changes something. However, my impression and the impression of my colleagues from the SRS is that almost all Serbian governments have been literally playing with amendments to criminal legislation since 2001. It hasn't been a year, and we're changing something. It's not a serious state, it's not a serious legal order, it doesn't in any way contribute to the rule of law. Of course it's not contributing, it's just going to harm the fundamental human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45654	MP Srdjan Mikovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45655	I'm reporting because of a situation that's been brought forward. An example of the execution of a petty theft is given. I do not think that the example corresponds to what is provided for in Article 142, because the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure treats Article 142 of the existing Code, where detention can be determined, and in point 5) – when a criminal offence which is imposed on him has been imposed on prison (to date over ten) for over five years and where this is justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the criminal offence. The adoption of the amendment will be closer determined to refer to those crimes where the sentence of over five years has been threatened, where there is violence. Anyway, the crime of petty theft... I'm not sure, I don't have a criminal code here that treats material law, but in any case, for such a crime, there's no possibility of giving criminal sanctions at that height that's provided for by a member. Maybe another example. In any case, in a statement by the minister herself, when she spoke of which crimes may be covered by the application of the new law on criminal proceedings... It's about those acts of violence, where a crime was committed in the group, where a serious physical injury was inflicted, where, for example, property of great value was damaged. I'm saying what could be that crime for which the sentence has been threatened for over five years. There can't be any way that under this attitude, those crimes where there isn't a maximum sentence for five years. In that sense, I think we should be precise. This is about the execution of those crimes where the sentence has been threatened for over ten years and, if we adopt this amendment, those crimes where the sentence has been threatened for over five years, where violence has been applied and where it is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. I repeat, the proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of determining detention rather than the obligation to determine detention. I think, in any case, it is the court's obligation to, with regard to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to appreciate the provisions of Article 141. The Code of Criminal Procedure, in each individual case, individualises all this and the very need to have reasons, for the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings, to determine detention, or not. In this regard, I do not see any reason why such a possibility would be excluded and that the amendment of our fellow Members who foresee the erasure of any article 1, or of Article 2 would be adopted. Proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. I think it is a good solution and I think that a good solution is to accept the amendment of the MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party, not because the amendment of the Code was bad, but because this amendment is even closer and more clearly defining what is well defined by the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45656	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, I was planning to set a break at 1400 hours, is that enough for you? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45657	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for your kindness. Just for a little while. What's the holdup, colleague Mikovic? The detention is a measure that ensures that the defendant attends criminal proceedings. Right? The Process Institute. What's the big deal? The fact that you are an artificially qualified material institute at a procedural institute, which is the term “the element of violence” and that, previously in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no definition of what violence is at all. Please, ignore now, fear how much punishment is prescribed, but concentrate on the concept of "the element of violence". Do we have a regulation in which it is said - violence is that too? We don't. If we had it, this wouldn't be so problematic, but since we don't have it, there's an objective danger (I'm not saying it's gonna happen for sure, but objectively it can happen) that the courts in different ways interpret this notion of violence, so in one case, it's going to be like violence to take an exclusive attack on someone's physical integrity, and in some other case maybe a mental integrity attack. So in some cases, the concept of violence will be closely understood, and in some cases wide and even too wide. At the end of the line, this will lead to courts applying the same rule equally – the Code of Criminal Procedure. If the fundamental constitutional principle is that all citizens are equal before the law, this means, among other things, that the law must be applied equally in all situations. In this situation as we have now, because you have adopted an LDP amendment, it is objectively raised as a problem that the Code of Criminal Procedure in that area regarding the determination of detention will not be applied equally, because an important previous concept, the concept of violence, is not defined by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, but the courts will, from case to case, interpret when violence exists and does not exist. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45658	MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45659	In order to clarify all these concerns that have been raised, I would like to read the existing Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure, so let's see if there's a point in point one. 1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) is about the possibility of interpreting whether something belongs only to the process or belongs to the identification of certain facts that are necessary to establish that there exist in order to determine the detention. Point 1) states that detention may be imposed against persons suspected of committing a criminal offence, if it is hidden, if its identity cannot be established or if there are other circumstances that indicate the risk of escape. So that's what it's supposed to be about. Furthermore, if there are circumstances that indicate that they will destroy, hide, alter, falsify evidence or traces of a criminal offence, or if specific circumstances indicate that they will interfere with the proceedings, influence witnesses, artists, accomplices or concealers; then, if the specific circumstances indicate that they will repeat the crime or complete the attempted crime or that they will commit a crime that threatens; if they avoid the main search. The current point 5) – if for a criminal offence that has been imposed on him is a prescribed prison sentence for over ten years and if this is justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. I ask, if this is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime, are we also establishing something that might be widely interpreted as being said – wait, what are the circumstances for the execution of the crime at all, the existence of elements of the substance of the crime and everything else? And these circumstances can be interpreted – will we also determine these circumstances when criminal liability is individualised or criminal sanctions are established? In any case, I don't see that in this way I've defined the concept of violence, with everything else that is cumulatively foreseen, is a problem. Once again, the Liberal Democratic Party's amendment has not yet been adopted and has not become an integral part. In order to do so, it is necessary to make a statement to the Legislative Committee, not just the proposing committee and the parent committee. In any case, the Assembly will declare the amendment, but as a participant in the discussion, I do not have reservations under such an LDP amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45660	If that is quite short, Mr Martinovic; this is a dialogue on the subject and I support the dialogue on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45661	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, and I won't answer the word again. Mr. Mikovic, this is about that, I don't know what words to choose to explain to you, that the amendment defines the being of a criminal act, the action of execution. In particular, violence is an act of committing a crime. The act of committing a crime shall be a crime; they shall not be governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, but by the Criminal Code. That's why the amendment is problematic. It is not at all problematic that you have previously been instructed under what circumstances detention can be determined. They're all process institutes. But the element of violence is the element of a criminal act. In any good criminal law, the elements of the criminal act must be pre-defined. We know when there's imagination, when there's neglect, when there's incentive, there's help, etc., but now I'm asking you, when there's violence? Is it only violence if someone causes a physical injury or if someone offends someone, so a man suffers, that's a bit unfortunate to say - mental pain? That's problematic. Therefore, the amendment relating to the procedural law is in fact indirectly affecting the amendment of the Criminal Code. That's what's not good. If we want the Republic of Serbia to be a legally regulated state, especially in the area of criminal law, then it is necessary to clarify what is defined by the Criminal Code and what is defined by the Code of Criminal Procedure. This amendment, gentlemen, only formally refers to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Essentially, it complements a whole series of criminal acts, which is the matter of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45662	In accordance with Art. Paragraphs 87 and 90 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, in case there's a need, we'll be working after 1800 hours, but we seem to be running out of agenda early. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] We're continuing our work. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. Here you go, Mrs. Radovic. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45664	As a parliamentary group, we are against the fact that legislative activity is turning into day-to-day political activity. That's what we had a chance to see today at this meeting in the afternoon. I think that's why Parliament's reputation and how it collapses, and constantly. Then it shouldn't be surprising, at all, that our trust in the institution itself is on such a worrying low level. It is potentially dangerous to change the Code of Criminal Procedure, which in fact changes only because of one thing, because of one game – due to tomorrow's derby. I think changing the law because of one event shows how much we as a state don't have an answer to any questions, we don't have a solution for any problem, even if it was presented in a football game. We already have one law at our disposal that does not apply, the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events, and I think that if it were strictly applied, the situation at sporting events and at all in stadiums would be completely different. But instead of applying this law, state and government allow violence to escalate, not only in the country, but beyond it. Who's going to be guilty of that now? Well, it's not the opposition's fault again, is it? Now, when all of this has gone so far, we are proposed to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, whose aim is to repeat it for the thousandth time so far, that it simply turns into punishment. And I'll repeat by who knows which time, because it's obviously not clear that detention is not a punishment, but a measure of security of the presence of the defendant in criminal proceedings, and it's extraordinary. Even with these amendments, by accepting the amendments of one parliamentary group, it does not cease to be a rule, because, regardless of all, it will refer to a large number of criminal acts, regardless of the fact that a part relating to a criminal act falls under procedural law and not materially, as Mr Martinovic had the opportunity to explain very clearly and immediately before the break itself. If the aim of these changes is to arrest the persons first, and to collect evidence against them later on in the course of investigations against them or proceedings, while they are in custody, then of course it is not the mark of a democratic state. It's something to do in The Hague. It's something that was done during "Sabre". I hope that's not what we're trying to do. I think we've drawn some points and some conclusions from what's been happening to us in the past. If that's the point, then, that's what I said in the principle debate, and that's what I'm saying right now, why don't we cancel the courts ourselves? Why would courts like that even have to exist? We should let the police do their job and finish whatever it is they're asked to do. This shift in impact guarantees human rights. This is what the European Charter of Human Rights itself says. It prohibits the adoption of laws or amendments to an existing law that will contribute to achieving the level of freedom and justice. It's also a legal standard, which is very damaging to this occasion. Also, such solutions as are proposed in the Code do not find their counterpart anywhere in parallel-law practice. I've talked about this a lot longer in the principle debate and I won't repeat it, I'm simply asking the Minister of Justice to give me a European country in which these rules apply today, as amended by the Code of Criminal Procedure, we want to achieve? By expanding the circle of crime, the crime of self-pronouncement, we are potentially in danger of not knowing where those detained persons are even being sent. I've said it before, and I repeat it now, that four thousand people legally sentenced to prison are awaiting maintenance, because our prison facilities are completely filled. When one government, the government has such information, then it should propose some other changes, which do not contribute to making the current situation more difficult, but rather the opposite. Also, I'll remind you of one more thing. We know that Serbia's courts are overbooked. I primarily mean the Belgrade judiciary, which is in a completely different position and situation than the courts in the interior. What happens if the person is in custody for an inappropriate period of time and if the court's overbooking does not end within that reasonable period of time? Who's going to pay the damages to the detainees? Do you know what the situation is with, in particular, paying compensation to the Republic of Serbia for judgments brought before the European Court of Human Rights? I remind you that 3,200 plays against the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to the European Court of Human Rights so far. 46 verdicts have been reached, and 43 European Court of Human Rights rulings are related and go to the harm of the Republic of Serbia itself. It is also known that the European Court of Human Rights' position, which will not be kindly looked at by formalised reasons for determining detention, can therefore conclude that the percentage of rulings that go to the detriment of the Republic of Serbia will be much higher. Of course, when we talk not only about the European Court, but about European standards at all, these authorities are full of the mouth of Europe, but when they need to be applied through the laws themselves, then we see that survival in power is the only thing that binds them. That is why, of course, the judicial reform itself has been carried out beyond all European standards. At the very least, I do not judge, this is what the European Commission reports and the objections they have on the work of the judiciary, which will be made public these days. A country that pleads to be a serious state must have the same patterns of treatment for all who attack it. As a party, and I especially stress this, we have always condemned violence and we will always, and we do so today, support every decisive action of the state to deal with those who commit violence. But we'll never support the double arches. As we believe the police must show determination when they attack her, so we do not think that they are allowed to walk peacefully in one country alongside a banner reading "death of the state", that they are walking peacefully, presented in a few ministers, and that no one from the state summit responds. If you have one archaic to deal with those who attack the state, then at least, if nothing, you have to react to what happened, specifically to the so-called. "The Parade of Pride". You should have reacted at least because none of the ministers present said anything about the transparency itself. Of course, that's why we have such a power, which the state essentially means nothing to. That is why we have a state where basic democratic standards and rules are not respected and in which, unfortunately, it is only important to have 126 MPs present in the hall and to pass any law, however it should appear, even if it had its mark in today, which you will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45665	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, they submitted: MP Zoran Krasic, MP Dragan Shormaz (with correction), joint MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Group of Representatives, Forward Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45666	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, both the first and second members must be treated uniquely, and in that sense, all these amendments that have been submitted to both of these members still form a unity. Without intending to repeat what has already been said as an SRS position on these amendments and additions, I would move on to explain this amendment. It's said that it's a direct cause, I wouldn't even say the reason, but I'd say a direct cause, for these changes and supplementing the need to combat violence, violent behavior, or force as a means of solving some social conflict, let's do it a little sociologically to drop out. Before I start with this topic, I would ask everyone to keep in mind the book Dragan Bujosevic "The Fifth October" (there is no need to quote what is written there, it is his work), to bear in mind the book of Tim Marshall "The Game of Shadows". It's not my invention again, it's what Tim Marshall wrote and gave a vision of organized violence that has already been drawn today in theory as a five-octobaric coup, or "bubbler revolution". Please, there's no need to complain to me, it's not what I invented, it's the facts and the vision of people who belong more to the "Resist" and other institutions, than they have a slight connection with the SRS. Of course, I'm saying this more because of the real people running the Department of Justice. You see, if the name of the Chuma is mentioned in public, the first association is – Mr. Chume. The second association is – Chume, witness associate. The third association is – the witness associate with the police escort performs private affairs. When Chume comes to your office to close some business, the police come with him, so now you refuse to close the deal. It's facts and I think it's some kind of etalon, it's a new democratic standard. I know some people don't like it. I don't like things either, but the facts are inexorable. Only in Serbia has "Resistance" frozen. Wherever he was abroad, "Resistance" or being arrested or expelled, and we "Resist" is an integral part of the government, which has a message – we're just watching you. It's not me, it's you. You just had a chance to see the main ideologist of the Democratic Party, Mr Milivojevic; when he said – you must go visit the detained persons, the minister immediately jumped and said – there are no problems, let's go. If he hadn't said that to Srdjan Milivojevic, there would have been a pull-up. In the end, I'm going to leave the part where I'm going to praise the changes and supplement this law. He'll have to commend someone. But not that senseless commendation that came from here. What you agreed with the LDP is not mastery; Martinovic and Aligrudic told you about it and I will not repeat it. What could be the cause of social conflict? In my opinion, the cause of the social conflict can be when the United States, Sam Nazaro and others invest in judicial reform in Serbia millions, millions, millions, hundreds of millions of euros and as a result of these investments we get a strike from people who work in the office because they don't have bread. The second association is to renovate some buildings – the state remains likely to owe about five hundred million dinars to contractors. Then the question is rightly raised where did this assistance end up being sent for the transformation of the Serbian judiciary, unless you paid for the renovation of the building, building adaptation, furniture, computer programs, etc.? That's how we get to the main thing, and that's probably next week, if you do a quorum that we can do, to explain to you, that we have one minister who, in partnership with another minister, made a decision not to apply the law for two years. When the representatives of the authorities say - this law will not be applied for the next two years, is it violence? Is that something that falls under some responsibility? If you only interpret political responsibility on election day, then you've made a terrible mistake. Someone discovered that prank and I don't trust you anymore. But we have this situation, so the minister says: this law will not be applied, for two years there is no application of this law. What can we say about this individual? Tell me an adequate word, a jargon, that the citizens might understand. Here, let me give you a little credit. You in the government have a finance minister who's a world recordman. The man has been named the best minister in the world. I would suggest that we take him to the U.S. to take care of their finances. They praised him, they gave him credit, right? Why would they refuse that gift? Let's make them an efficient fund-raiser. On October 10th something happened, which was before October 12th, when Mrs Clinton came, the whole world praised the Serbian police for beating up hooligans. Currently in France, there is a very active interaction between the cordon and the citizens, and I think, since you are on the European path, that you should send assistance to disabled France in terms of 16 cordons to help the French police in seducing order. I vote for it, so I'll be expelled from the party if I have to. (President: There is no statement on the agenda on this matter. Please return to the agenda. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I've been listening to tirad about violence all morning here, only frogs from my stomach haven't started jumping. Wait till we explain, please. What kind of double arches do you apply? Isn't this an example of violence? So it has to be a friendly chairman. If it's not merciful, son of Dragan, you're out of shoes. It's your criteria, but it doesn't matter. Let's move on. (President: You know what, you're misreading everything, but that's not the problem. The problem is you're really moving away from the agenda. Please return to the contents of this amendment. I would ask you not to interrupt me, so that in the end I would not forget the part where I should praise the government and this bill. I must commend, because Mrs. Comic had an extremely good discussion today. Not always, Mrs. Comic, but today was an extremely good discussion. You showed your party buddies today how they should fight for respect for the presummation of innocence. I told Martinovic you could come to us on the defence team of Vojislav Seselj. That's what we've been representing for eight years, Mrs. Komic, I commended you. Let's take it in a row. Next... I would ask you not to laugh, the subject is very serious. You laugh, and then they give me a warning. Don't, it's not right. Let's move on. So if we get to the real protagonist of what's going on, it's Mr. Homen, who's the secretary of state; he shows up every day creepyly on TV, with claims that he knows what's in the court files; he knows who's guilty, what's going to be done, what the prosecution is going to do. And when that Tomo Zoric shows up, then turn off the TV, you're clear, you're absolutely clear. Let's see how a social conflict should be resolved. It should be resolved in accordance with the regulations, by authorised authorities. If the social conflict cannot be resolved in a legally prescribed way, by authorized authorities, I'm sorry, please, then some force and some violence can be expected, as a natural consequence of something that is causing it. I want to talk about the causes, and again support Tomica Milosavljevic, who has a saying, better prevented than treated. To prevent violence as a method of solving a problem. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, let me give you a suggestion. General Milan Obradovic is at the head of this criminal sanctions administration. He was a victim, he was in custody for a while, when the Democrats argued with each other, then he fell. He has a nickname Rambo. Do you know that in 1994 he fell into a septic pit in Budva, when he was a courier between Jovica Stanisic and Canet Subotic? That's no doubt, that's a fact, I published it in a book. Since people who are professionally involved in crime know about these things and you put him to advertise the necklace, he simply raises pressure on the same as he, so they say – how is it possible that he, our friend, our friend in the business, is keeping us in jail? Mr. Homen... Let me explain, there's a housing cooperative from Novi Sad (I'll give you this, but you've already got this), "Rafineria"; in 1998 they concluded a contract with the police to solve housing issues of police officers, 260 apartments. Since NIS owed the state, the police had no money, they made a combination. In this combination, the housing cooperative led the court dispute, and on May 15, 2002, they won a dispute. Needs NIS to pay, came for execution in July 2005, and then Mr. Homen transferred the whole case through his law firm from Novi Sad to Belgrade. The violence of a representative of the government. He'll probably go bankrupt now, but he can't go bankrupt, because there's no one in court to do it right now. If you don't believe me, Mrs. Malovic, I'll read it to you. Mr. Homen keeps appearing as Boris Tadic's representative in his private disputes. It's Mrs. Nerandzic Tanja, who works at Homen's Attorney's Office. Now you see his definition of justice, related to material reasons. Another subject, you know, Mrs. Malovic. It concerns Dr Vanja Karadinovic and her dispute over the labour abuse she had at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica. Not to harass you, since you've received complete documentation, just to draw attention that September of the month has been held and some hearing. The judge who was supposed to be on trial was reportedly ill, so the second one came to postpone the trial. She doesn't get lazy with this lawyer of hers, so she goes to the next office and finds this supposedly sick Mrs. Lucic. When she's attracted to what's going on, what's going on, she says like this in front of the witnesses – I'm the one who gets in the way, I don't want to die at 41. That's proof of how you reformed your judiciary, your judiciary, etc. Here's another example, Mrs. Malovic, he's known to the public. Since Serbia is a country of nicknames, we have a certain Baya Blue; Radomir Zivanovic – Baja Plavi, he even has his insurance company, and he doesn't pay them any salary, he says: no one can do anything to me, if you don't want to do it, someone else will come out. Why did I tell you this? Because every day I get seven or eight letters with very specific things, such as, say, this case (we would say, the garage, there is) where it points to lawlessness, police failures, prosecutions, courts, where citizens say – whom to believe, whom to believe when what is written does not exist and does not apply, does not oblige the state, public officials profit, like Mr. Homen, etc. Now I'm going to compliment you a little bit, and you all have to accept that. Why is it necessary to praise? We're one of the few states, which is a world miracle. When the state of emergency was in 2003, the Council of Europe said that we had proven a permanent commitment to democracy, that we had met minimum conditions and were admitted to the Council of Europe. It is the only state that has been admitted to a top European human rights institution in a state of emergency. After a few months, it happened that the state could not pay compensation for the damages of so many thousands of detainees, arrested, illegally arrested, illegally detained, etc. So we already have one experience. Here's the part of "Sabela 2" that you know. I don't want to go into the dialectics of these two members, but I have to tell you that it's a good thing the government wrote in this statement that when it was making changes and supplementing this code there was no place to look at that there was a European standard. To tell you the truth, they had a place to look, but first, they didn't know, and second, they were scared. Who said, "Ow"? (President: Please do not address the MPs. ) Please, they've put cartoons everywhere, they say, about, we're ignoring Europe. I support you for ignoring Europe. If a standard existed in the EU were applied, then you would have a situation like this in The Hague. Vojislav Seselj has been in custody for eight years, it is a world record, and they are hiding behind some court practice, some views, and they must not admit that they have violated his right to trial within a reasonable period of time and his right to an expeditional trial. You are much more human than the EU. You've been up for 30 days from eight days. You've only missed a member. That shouldn't apply to the so-called. It's a shortened procedure. There's one good thing you wrote, that this extension is only valid if the investigation is under way. A man must do a little something to commend you. You've been painting for nothing. With these interventions you don't solve social conflict, you just demonstrate force and say you have the support of the West to carry out force. That's exactly what I want it to be clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I just want to paint the EU, the NATO Pact, the United States in black. Thank you very much. You're a terrible help to me, you're showing every move and you're proving that those three concepts are black terms for the Serbian people. That's why I have to back you up on that. Well done. I remember, in time, in 1999, one of your men said -- aman, people, the NATO Pact, so it's like 19 robbers in a pub, and now I'm going into a bar to exorcise justice. How can I exorcise justice with bandits? I supported him, gave him a real diagnosis of the NATO Pact. You can see for yourself what's going on in the EU. I suggest, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we should help Western Europe, we should really help them. It's like we're the ones who moved in with them. No, it's an endemic phenomenon with them, but we have to send our human rights fighters to fight for the human rights of the French. Let's say Kandic, Biserko, Miljenko Dereta, Borka Pavicevic. Well, Mojsilović can dress them, too, to say, "It's not hard to be nice." Mojsilović goes to French television and tells the French - French brothers, so it's not hard to be nice. What's wrong with you getting paid? What's wrong with that, growing the retirement limit? What are you complaining about? See how Serbia accepts everything, Stoicly accepts European standards. Is it possible that European standards live in Serbia and cannot live in the European Union, people?- I'm sorry. Thank you for this bill. Thank you so much for this bill, because now it's absolutely clear to everyone what this is all about. It's absolutely clear what's going on, who's in what positions. I want to make you and some others, to be Eurofanatics, to represent the interests of the EU until the last sting, and to watch on television what happens in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, etc. In Spain, there were demonstrations about the freezing of wages in the public sector. Please, have you seen how this syndrome spreads to France? High school hooligans, all hooligans to hooligans, all hooligans to hooligans. Students – disaster. Let Dacic and the Shooter send our armed forces there to practice a little. They do a lot of practice here every weekend. What these turtles are doing at the games, so it's an agreed exercise, so people don't get out of shape. Mrs. Komic, you are my witness, in 2003, when there was no transfer of the National Assembly, a law was passed on to combat violence at games. I said one sentence - you don't need the law, order national security to break up with the organization of unrest. And today I repeat to you - order national security to break off the conflict-finding and turning the subject of the public's not dealing with what's most important, but to deal with peripheral matters. Someone's gonna jump and say violence isn't a peripheral thing. It's not. Take care of your National Security Council. I told you about this Mickey Raki. He is the master of Serbia, not Boris Tadic. He controls Boris Tadic. Take care of those jobs so they don't stage some stuff. Would those things that are happening on the street right now do that if it were their children? They wouldn't, they wouldn't give up the actual authorities, the gray eminence. Someone has concluded - let's make these shakes to distract the public. We are changing European regulations even more "European" regulations. Come on, please, let's move the European standards you installed here a little bit to Germany, so Gordana Komic criticises Angela Merkel over that statement a few days ago and say – Mrs Merkel, that's not a European standard. You say everyone has to be assimilated, to accept the German cultural pattern. Europe cannot function with a single cultural pattern. I expect Gordana Comic, she can do it, she's full of these democratic standards, she's just pouring them out of her sleeve. Please, I expect Dragan Sutanovac to go to Garmispartenkirhen and say - he can't uniform on civilians. I expect Boris Tadic to go and say it. Boris Tadic said – no hooligans can be in power, the place is taken. That must also be said in Europe, the hooligans can't be in power there. I am supporting you, not because I hate those who bombed the Republic of Serbia, not because I don't love those who killed Serbs, not because they threw poor uranium, so our people here get hurt, there's no need for anyone to hate the French people, the German people. But remember, a few months ago, the United Nations warned the world's public that there are many states where organized crime pets are in power. Keep an eye out, the government is being held for citizens, not for those who have money and for organized crime. This is another promotional action. If we could stop in 1999 and 2000 such a law on the fight against terrorism, which was against opposition parties, we are not today for these changes and additions because we know they serve manipulation and abuse. Whatever you prefer to deny me with your practice, what I said, I succeeded. You're proof to me that something black is the EU, the NATO Pact and the United States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45667	There's only one minute left for your MP's group. National MP Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45668	I have also submitted an amendment to Article 2. He is, in fact, the most important here. I continue to argue, despite the fact that the Minister tried to read some other parts of the European Charter of Human Rights, and not the part I apostrophe as a problem, that it was threatened by this part... I repeat that this Charter of Human Rights prohibits the adoption of new laws or parts of laws that have already been reduced to a degree of human rights. The achieved degree is one detention, and now it's being sharpened, and I think, that's my opinion, that it's contrary to the European Charter, and you've been reading something quite different, as a replacement of thesis is being done all along. It's been said here that what we're doing for three days is a regular procedure, that we're not doing it for the derby, and all the media are reporting that today, tonight, the Assembly is adopting this and that tomorrow whoever's causing riots in the stadium is going to be held in custody for 30 days. Now go online, turn on the TV, and you'll see, everyone's reporting it. So it's not true, you only did this because you want to send a message and you want to show that you're doing something, and what you're doing is nothing. You're replacing the thesis all the time. Mrs. Kolundjia says – whoever is against these changes protects the violent from punishment. That's not true. Prison's not a punishment. Penalty's a prison. Condemning Urosh after three years for attacking the cop, and not alone, a few of them. A man who's been attacked by a few people (he's managed to drop a gun so he doesn't take a gun), that professional today is completely forgotten, and this guy hasn't been convicted yet because he's defending himself because he didn't know he was an official face. The court can't find out by one hearing that it's not true, which he's defended, and that he's been punished creepy for ten years. When an 18-year-old man is sentenced to ten years and gets out of prison when he's 28, that's a terrible punishment, believe me. It is more likely that they will walk "The Parade of Pride" than they will live after those ten years. That's what these young people are afraid of, not detention for 30 days, 60 etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45669	The word has been given by the People's MP, Miss Alexandra Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45670	Thank you, Madam President. The New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to delete Article 2. In Article 2. The draft law shall be amended in Article 436(2). The Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the maximum length of detention in a shortened criminal procedure from eight to thirty days. In view of the fact that a reduced criminal procedure is involved, it is necessary to make a difference and not identify it with a regular criminal procedure regarding the duration of detention as the necessary measures for the conduct of the criminal proceedings, which is properly and legally done by the existing law. A distinction must be made with regard to the detention measure and its duration between a shortened and a regular criminal procedure, given that proceedings with a different impediment to criminal offences may be committed and the conduct of proceedings by an individual judge in relation to the conduct of proceedings by a larger one. With previous changes, which were on the agenda very shortly ago, you adopted the legal text that you are now changing and you are returning it to its original state. However, any currently increased social dangers, certain criminal behaviours, do not change the law, but certain criminal policies and criminal policies apply. Despite your successful reform of the judiciary and allegedly increased efficiency and urgency, you deny yourself this bill and allow for an even greater lack of urgency and acknowledge the obvious intricacies of the existing, newly elected judicial staff by extending the time limits and the duration of detention, as necessary measures for the successful conduct of the criminal proceedings. This is about increasing the length of detention from eight to 30 days while conducting investigations. Within the eight-day deadline provided for so far, the public prosecutor was obliged to press charges that could require an extension of the detention period to 30 days, as in the ordinary criminal proceedings, if legal conditions exist. The above-mentioned amendment only gives the public prosecutor a longer period of time for this decision and thus enables the prosecutor to behave more easily. Instead of taking a shorter period of time and ending criminal proceedings, you allow the possibility of a longer duration, with a high risk of unfounded detentions, which has so far been demonstrated in this legislation, and which has cost the state a lot in the event of unfounded detentions, suspension of proceedings and acquittals. It is obvious that in this way it is headed by the public prosecutor, as a criminal prosecution body, which also raises the degree of ability of the existing staff to act effectively, which is also evident by the constant lack of urgency in the processing of these very types of cases which are why this amendment of the law is proposed. I don't want to be misunderstood, I'm a supporter of crime and I'm here unequivocally on the side of the country, because that's how I was raised, but I can't agree with the fact that the only way out is to be a repression, which suggests the inability of the state to implement the democratic principles and values of the EU that you worship deeply. I am for Europe, which we belonged to from the beginning, but only with our national identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45671	The MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45672	Today was very difficult to follow when we can answer and call. But to avoid confusion, Articles 1 and 2 are closely tied by shortening the threatened sentence from ten to five years for those who may be in custody. In fact, the gravity of the law itself is not transferred to something more important than that detention can be extended from eight to 30 days. We think it's a center of gravity. I want to ask you, first of all, Minister, do you agree with the effort to deal in this country with those who are qualified for this job, and not at their own discretion professionally to assess the democracy, the government's relationship, the ruling majority or the like? In fact, why do you accept criticism that your bill wasn't good enough? The criminal code, in which you have defined that detention can be determined for a crime to be imposed on him, the prescribed sentence of prison was over ten, and now over five years, and if that's justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime... You allow, unwarrantedly, those are all who understand themselves in the right here to explain, introduce an institute of violence, which is not covered in the right and legal way, which can be considered violence. On the other hand, you gave us the following facts in your explanation: at the end of 2009, the National Assembly changed the Criminal Code on two occasions, the one we are changing now again after a year. For what reason? The same ones. These changes have extended the crime, I quote, "violent behaviour at a sports event", by also referring to violent behavior at other public gatherings. So we're also talking about the threat of the minority that was thought to be treated here; or it's either put us as the only possible choice: or violence or something that we don't support by considering it to be the intimate thing of each individual. If after a year (so, at the end of 2009, we have been changed the Criminal Code for the reasons we are talking about today), you are proposing new measures, which are more severe, are a greater measure of repression, are the state's greater right to show its measures of coercion, even in a way that raises the question of what is called the legal integrity of this system, I ask if you as the Ministry are obliged to assess the effects of the laws passed, which we concluded in those unique methodological rules for writing the law and in the Law on the Assembly, or do we always adhere to the rules and some postulates only when it suits us? It's a public question, it's a question for you. What I insist on is that you, the Prosperity Group, Serbia, now for formal reasons, are making it impossible to add Article 506, after Article 3. to add a new one. I remind the public, very unanimously, as a mother, wife and minister, you nodded your head when I asked you to discuss the Law on Judicial Witches, that permanent non-accountability should not abuse the perpetrators of serious crimes by raping them in return, killing them in return, buying incompetence, spending a short period of time in hospitals, and then, paying for their freedom, they return and do the deed again. After that conversation, there was a case in Beocino, where a girl was raped and murdered. I expected that you would ignore this formal reason and accept that it is impossible for someone who is qualified to be permanently disturbed, because that someone who is fired from the hospital can commit a crime again. I suggest you remember, if your doctors are able to cure a permanent mental illness, let us as a Parliament propose them for the Nobel Prize, so that at least they help mankind with their invention, or to reduce the degree of criminality for the most serious crimes that seem to be in return by buying art, where people are declared permanently unaccountable, and after a few years, we know what it is, and the price of how much it costs, they're walking among us, not just digging into the memories and wounds of those who are bereaved and damaged, but they're really a general threat. Why is it not the problem of this society, when they write about it, but again the problem that someone estimates is today the biggest problem – to prevent boys of 15 years of age from being treated equally as real criminals, whose files the police have, whose movements must be monitored and whose activities the state has? Not MPs who, by some miracle or not know what kind of connections can come to that data, but exactly the state that has all the mechanisms to prevent this kind of situation. Don't make a mistake, no ban is as effective as a well-measured sentence. The ban creates from some people and organizations of the victim. In young people, it creates a desire to join them. There are sociological studies, a lot of research, knowledge. Don't let us talk about such serious problems in an unserious way, don't let the ignorant criticize you and change your law. Don't let this people see in you not those who can't do their job, but those who for political reasons bend and leave their work to some who know less about it. I can't collect political points on these things, not within parties, not among parties, not in society, because this isn't just your job, as a minister, this isn't my job and my colleagues, as MPs, this is the job of all of us, because of our children. Let's separate the criminals, separate the used, separate the usable, and break up this practice so that we don't deal with the most serious problems and the most serious perpetrators of the crime. Let's settle the right things and, indeed, in this you will always have the support of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Prosperity Group, Serbia, although we are the opposition, unequivocal, in every situation. We opposition to our children and the future of Serbia can never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45673	Eight minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45674	Of course, I waited this moment when we came to Article 2, because as Article 1 of the proposed law is meaningless and, in the end, why not say my confidence, stupid, and I have proved it in my previous degree, so much is Article 2 of the proposed text of the law scandalous and directly dangerous to the status of human rights and the fate of this state and to the legal system. In Article 1, you added one meaningless condition to one relatively pointless provision of point 5) of Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure, by reducing you from ten to five census, when it comes to the age of menaced by certain crimes. Here you are changing the provision concerning the investigation in the shortened procedure, where the maximum length of detention is scheduled before the indictment is filed from eight days to thirty. Now we're going to see what it actually accomplishes. Therefore, when it comes to a shortened procedure, it is such criminal acts that meet the conditions for a shortened procedure. These are usually simple crimes, with simple investigative actions. If that weren't the case, if there were other crimes, there would be no short-term procedure. It's a very simple thing. Among other things, a brief procedure can be conducted in private lawsuits, for example, for offenses and slanders. Since the standard that the LDP has added to you today, and you gladly accepted it, is a standard called a crime in which there is a element of violence, is not clearly defined, nor has the proposal defined, nor has the applicant defined it, but will define it as a practice, it is an insult of a serious mental injury, where there is also certain violence, verbally or otherwise. When it comes to that, then we have the element of violence, because who's going to judge it? You'll probably explain to the Ministry the judge, the investigative judge or the judge in a procedure to assess the element of violence, which you'll probably explain to him somewhere, because it doesn't say here in the law or in the Criminal Code. So, theoretically, and very practically, when face A sues face B for offense and suggests detention, which can, no one defends him... Judges, as a rule, the truth of will, don't determine detention in such situations, it's not such a practice, they simply don't find that there are elements for determining detention and they don't. But as it started here, with certain pressure from the executive authority to the judiciary and certain threats through these proposed amendments of the Law to the whole society, or certain parts of it, or those that are opposed to the current authority, then it can very easily happen that one of the judges thinks well and that in certain situations, when there is a private prosecutor who proposes detention, he also determines that there are reasons for him, and all in accordance with Article 142. The ZPP, about that member, and then fine-tuning him for 30 days. Why? So he simply finds that there are reasons for the investigation to last 30 days, and that the person accused, or accused, spends that time in custody. Okay, this example, you're going to say, it's not like that, because it's not likely that what I'm saying right now would happen in practice. Yeah, not likely, I agree, but it's possible. It is possible that he spends eight days, so we said for a moment that this is not happening in practice, and it is possible now, according to your variant, to spend thirty. When it comes to a shortened procedure, when it comes to specific criminal acts, if you want to take it to the moment before the indictment is brought up, before it is filed, increase it from eight to 30 days, then it will turn not into a measure to facilitate the conduct of the criminal proceedings, but to a retributive extent, to the extent that someone and without conviction are actually punished, especially when it comes to such criminal acts. As we have heard in the previous part of the discussion, it is not right to give an example of petty theft in explaining the concept of violence, such as, it is not an act that meets the condition of five years, etc. That's right. What about the brief procedure? That's where it fills, and that's how. Now, of course, there are general conditions for determining detention and also apply to a shortened procedure, all right, but what about the element of violence? The element of violence still stands there, and how do you define it? You accepted that. When you accepted it, it's like you suggested from the government, there's no difference if the amendment came from the LDP, you accepted one continent. Where's the retribution? So I'm going to give you an example tomorrow, because, of course, everyone knows that this quick adoption, putting on the urgent procedure of this proposal, the interruption of a session, the insertion of a new session in the course of one, means that there's some reason for it to be done as soon as possible. It'll work for the future, but of course tomorrow. This translates into the following, you are ordering those who dare to make such a mess that they will pass in the following way – that they will all be arrested, that each of them will be held in custody for 30 days, yes, tomorrow, immediately, and that they will be subsequently released from that detention so as to establish that there is no basis for the conduct of the criminal proceedings, and some will be detained or sent to the maintenance of the sentence after the proceedings. The fate of those who find themselves in any mass the next day, who will result in a riot, and be brought in by the police, whether they are guilty or not, will be like this. The smartest thing for everyone is not to be found near events, not to be found near any cheerleading groups that are prone to incident or, after all, best not to go to the stadium, not to go to the game. I don't mind. Every bad guy at the game, every bad guy about those meetings, every gunman on the police force trying to maintain order, I'd punish him, too, just like you. I think that's what you agree to do. My fear, however, is this: it will happen not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, some other protests, some other cases, in this same city or other Serbian cities. And, as it happens in the protests (see French television, what happens in them), there will be some misdemeanors, someone will exceed the limits of decency, perhaps commit some criminal act. Someone will do so from a protest group, as has been the case before, when opposition parties in the 1990s participated in protests, and their supporters, to be overrun on both sides. We're afraid that this measure, which is not a measure of security of criminal proceedings, is going to be a clear retribution, because who is going to compensate these people for the damage they've spent twenty or thirty days in custody, and in the end it turns out that... (President: National MP, the time available to the parliamentary group has been used. Eight more minutes are available to the authorised representative. I'm done with this. There, that's it. Anyway, you understood what I wanted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45675	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate on amendments to criminal law has largely turned into a debate on events affecting this rapid response of the state authorities and the competent ministries and the government to everything that has lately burdened our society. I think there have been very correct and constructive discussions and that colleagues from the ruling coalition and the opposition have pointed to a number of problems burdening our society, so I will also present a vision of the Serbian Renewal Movement MPs. He was mentioned here by Hazel and 41 dead Italian fans in one important game, if I'm not mistaken, it was the Champions League final. Since we belong to the continental legal system, England, where the judge is largely the creator of law and judicial practice, etc., something has happened that no one has mentioned and it seems very interesting to me from the point of view of human rights, to which many have pointed out, etc. After that, England had great penalties, both as a state, as well as a football alliance, and the team had no right to perform for years. One fan at the top of the league game caused a fight. The judge's decision was a life sentence, a life sentence. The explanation was this: because of people like this and because of these phenomena almost 41 faces lost their lives, and England, as a cradle of football, suffered great damage. The country's response must be adequate and rigorous in order for such phenomena to be cut to the root. We are all witnessing the fact that English fans behave differently at stadiums in England, where there is no protective fence and where there is no police, etc., anyone can enter the field at any time, but they do not do so precisely because of criminal provisions. However, I would agree with all colleagues who have said that it is not only punishment for the measure that is sufficient and necessary for this society to prevent violence. The involvement of the entire society, all political parties, governments, ministries, changes in the education system, the media, the role of the police, the role of the judiciary, sociologists, psychologists, general, special prevention, penology; when everyone in the fruit industry is working in one direction, only then can we have results. I think for many reasons many respected colleagues have pointed to the fear of abuse of detention measures. Of course, it is up to the judge to determine in any particular case whether to determine the detention, how long the detention will take, etc., but given that we are a really young society, that we are all aware that our institutions are fragile, not because it is the responsibility of this ministry, which it is doing, I think, excellent work, or this government, but simply because it is an inheritance and every next government and several governments will face the fact that weak institutions in the state, that they really need to strengthen and different offices... That is why I expect, with such serious issues, that we will not be divided into two camps: a camp that, like, advocates sanctions, and another camp that allegedly advocates respect for human rights. I think we'll all stand for one normal life in Serbia, which we need over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45676	Four minutes and five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by National MP Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45677	I'd start with the very argument that the government doesn't accept my amendment because, for legal and technical reasons, it's unsuitable for consideration. If it is unsuitable for consideration, then the amendment is not refused, then it is rejected. I think it's basic legal knowledge. I'm not going to stick around, it's just a government decision, I'm going to say a few words about this decision that I've hit hard in the principle debate; that's what I'm going to do right now. I find it completely unwarranted, from both human rights and from the point of view of court practice, to extend detention in a reduced procedure from eight to thirty days. The essence of the shortened procedure is just the quick completion of the procedure. These deadlines are shortened because it implies that there are minor crimes, which we can very easily get to the very end of the trial and where the investigation itself is not required. We do not dispute the possibility of certain investigative actions coming into existence, but it is understood that there is sufficient evidence, sufficient evidence collected for a direct charge. That is why, by extending the time limit, more specifically detention, from eight days to thirty days, the very essence of the shortened criminal procedure is devised. I explained it very closely in the principle debate, and now I'm doing it for who knows which time, but I'm going to have to say one more thing. In short criminal proceedings, they usually express themselves... It's not a rule, but if we look at court statistics, it's usually either court notices or parole or fines, because crimes aren't difficult, they're easy crimes. Now I'm going to prove my thesis, which I'm talking about all the time, which is the key to changing this code, which is that detention here is punishment. Let us take the situation that the detention is determined against the person and that his detention is set for thirty days. It endured this, or detention was completed, and the trial was closed, and we finally came to the very punishment, or criminal sanctions. So he was given a court notice, parole or fine. The time he spent in custody can't be included in that criminal sanction he's been charged with. In fact, it turns out that even though he's not sentenced to prison, he's going to endure jail time. That's what not only those who don't understand. Legal knowledge is not required in order to reach such a conclusion. I have to say that both in this and in previous change, standards that have been in force for years, have been in force for decades; in any normal country, it would be unimaginable to change. We should simply look at how things are in developed societies, with a long criminal-legal tradition, and copy some solutions from their legislation that would contribute to improving our criminal procedure, primarily to its effectiveness. We would love to support such a solution, but unfortunately, these solutions are going in the opposite direction entirely. We are a unique example in Europe of many things, but most of all, because we are consciously entering the decommissioning of our own institutions and institutes. We do it today with these laws, we do it every day. In the end, I'm just going to say that that's not how the state is run, it's getting weak, and what it wants to achieve by amending this law is that violence is increasing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45678	It was used two minutes and twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. It is my obligation, in accordance with the rules of procedure which stipulate that care for the compliance of working bodies, to inform the MPs, on the basis of Article 90(2), that the Legislative Committee has not been maintained due to the sudden disease of the President of the Legislative Committee of Parliament Vlatko Ratkovic, who, on behalf of all of us, wishes to recover quickly, and that, in the event that the Legislative Committee has been maintained, this amendment which proposes that instead of the word “thirty” be placed “eight” would be incomplete, or rejected. National MP Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45679	How much time do I have? (President: another four minutes and eighteen seconds. Thank you. I'm really not gonna answer again, no matter what the time, it's gonna take more than four minutes. I support Col. Radovic's amendment, and I want to ask you, Vice-President, what about this decision, in a sense agreed consensus, the minister agreed, the ruling coalition's MPs and we of the opposition agreed to make a delegation of representatives of the Assembly, the MPs, and to visit the arrested and make sure that their human rights are respected? Madam Minister, please check and report to the public and citizens of Serbia whether on Sunday, October 10th, there was physical abuse at police stations, whether there was extortion of statements, denial of the right to lawyer, denial of the right to a telephone call and so on? That when trials start and there's no press, if there's one, there's a lot of... It would be good if you came out with a statement. Check out what I've been asking, see if there was that, and report to the citizens and the public, for all of these constructive discussions that I've heard for the last hour, unlike the last ten days, that in some way we all send a message from here and reduce tensions. Let those who are responsible respond. Let those who are not guilty be released. That's one thing I want to tell you. Since you are the minister of justice, I have one announcement from the citizens -- that in Sunday, October 24th, a protest was scheduled for mothers arrested and that he was banned. I can understand, they might not like this, that it's, I don't know, how many hours, because of the derby. Does this mean that in the next days, Monday or Tuesday, citizens' right to gather and protest will be suspended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45680	It was used two minutes and eleven seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2a, in this case to Article 506. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45681	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as President of Parliament, I am obliged to take care of the consistency of working bodies. The explanation that the Vice-President had just given, when it came to the previous amendment, that the Legislative Committee had not been held, is the reason why this amendment came before us and we are talking about it. Although the Government has stated in its explanation that it does not accept the amendment for legal and technical reasons, since it is an amendment proposing the addition of a new item 3a in Article 506. The CAP, which was not covered by the bill, cannot submit an amendment to one whose amendment or addition has not been proposed here. But I'm not answering for that reason, so I answered for a fundamental reason. The parliamentary group proposing this amendment has several doctors. The essence of this amendment is that for all those who have committed crimes against life and the body, it can be said, that is, to the court the medical measure of compulsory treatment, but what this amendment offers is to make it practically life-long. As a psychiatrist, I cannot accept anything, given that he has a doctor in the parliamentary group, that doctors suggest that someone who has mentally illed a person, and has done something in a state of incompetence, when he has had difficulty in controlling his behavior or unable to control him, when he has not been responsible for the consequences arising from his behavior and when he has had a hard time controlling his impulses for the reasons of his illness, if he has done a difficult act against life and his body, for which the punishment has been scheduled, and for over ten years, he needs to be treated for more reasons. First of all, there are those mental damage conditions that are transient, on the one hand. On the other hand, you can always find a very good cure for those mental dysfunction conditions that are now difficult to treat. Third, there is not a single sick man with a mental problem who, in a river, has little to give up and his loved ones. If he's not cared for by doctors and states, at least in a way that has fundamental human rights, then it's not just a stigmatization, it's also a high degree of dehumanization. In that sense, I wanted, above all, to comment on such suggestions, especially when doctors are involved in the proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45682	It was used two minutes and fifty-five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45683	For this minute, as long as it remains for our MP group, I must say that the Constitution does not fulfil the grounds for amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to take effect the next day from the day of publication. If you read the reasoning of the bill, you will see that if the law does not come into force the next day from the day of publication, but waits for that classic eight-day period, it will question the security of the country, the rights of the citizens and the functioning of the state authorities, which practically means that the Republic of Serbia, the minority, is in a state of siege. As much as the Republic of Serbia has a problem with organised crime or other types of crime, this still does not mean that if the law does not come into force on the eighth day of publication but enters the next day, some irreparable adverse consequences will arise. All in all, from what the government has suggested clearly arises, regardless of all the efforts of the ruling coalition to convince us otherwise, that this law is still passed because of a special situation, which is tomorrow's match between the Red Star and Partizan. As soon as one law is passed not for some general situations and for a predetermined number of cases, but because of a specific, predetermined situation, that means that the law itself is problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45684	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45685	I would like to express my gratitude to all the MPs who participated in the debate in principle and in particular. I think, publicly speaking of this subject, we're all going to contribute to a more effective criminal procedure, which is primarily what this is all about. We talked openly about a subject that burdens this society, which is violence, and not only at sports competitions, but also at public gatherings, which, unfortunately, in both situations, we had the opportunity to see. I also want to thank those MPs who have submitted the amendments. As you had the opportunity to see, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice accepted the amendments. My pleasure is greater because they come from an opposition party, which means we have a consensus on condemning violence. I agree with the discussions that pointed out that it wasn't enough just to act repressively, and I'm completely consensual, but that there should be prevention. As I said two days ago when we had a debate in principle, I support all those programs (and I will try to point out in the government) that will help us act preventively, and primarily if we talk about children in primary schools. I think it's a start for a good socialization and for action, that things like this, which we unfortunately had opportunities to see on the streets of Belgrade, but also outside the country, are not coming. I also want to say something about the legal discussion that was being held here. The custody is not mandatory. He used to be in our legislation. Not anymore, not recently. This, of course, does not comply with international standards and therefore does not appear in this bill. There was a misunderstanding here about what the law is on the agenda. On the agenda is the Code of Criminal Procedure, not the Criminal Code, we had this last year on the agenda and, in a way, changing these provisions is in the function of these amendments that have occurred. As I said, that was the first time our legislation was introduced and incriminated, when we talk about the incidents that occurred at a public rally. I cannot agree that this is a violation of the international or European standards achieved. I have tried to quote the European Convention on Human Rights here, but unfortunately, some have not even understood the name of this convention or what it says. Also, I cannot agree with the debaters whose representatives have proposed an earlier Code of Criminal Procedure that extended detention, and that is, after the indictment has been brought up. He was once two years old; well, in this respected home in 2004, there was a passed Code of Criminal Procedure that predicted that the detention could last four years, so in their discussions I don't see any consistency in relation to what they used to do. I would also like to remind myself of the fact that from 2004 to 2007, discussions on the decommissioning of special authorities, particularly bodies dealing with the processing of organised crime proceedings, could often be heard. This government did not, on the contrary, take all necessary steps to step up the fight against organised crime and corruption, which you yourselves witnessed. On several occasions there were such laws before you. I can't agree with the discussion that this will lead to damages. Unfortunately, in our past we had such situations that the ministers of justice were former judges, and when they came to those places they had to make up for it, i.e. The Ministry of Justice is paying huge damages because people have been held in custody for a very long time, and later there have been acquittals. I remind them of the situation. I don't agree that there can be a difference of interpretation in practice. I'll quote you Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure, existing, in which it is stated in point 5), is designated for a criminal offence which is burdened if the sentence of prison is prescribed for over ten years and if that is justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the offence. So, so far, the court has not had a problem interpreting the particularly difficult circumstances of criminal acts, so I'm absolutely sure we won't have a problem even interpreting the elements of violence. As I said, this law will not stop violence, but it will certainly be a step further in our fight against this violence. I thank all those who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45686	Thank you. I ask the service to remove a sentence from the stenogram that I read before I saw Minister Snezana Malovic looking for a word, and at this point in the session, the sentence reads: I am concluding a search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Traveling Isprimes (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borisa Peljević, Mileta Posurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Dejan Mirović. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment, added in front of article 1 by a new member of the 1st, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If no one answers the word, in that case I conclude a search of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The stenogram works, checks with the professional service: has it been read during the session of amendments to the member of the First National MP Dejan Mirovic? Yes, it is. I thank you, so there will be no confusion. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, October 22nd, 2010, starting at 17.00pm, as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 4th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-22-0.u45687	Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 130 MPs are in the hall, i.e. that the total number of MPs is such that there are conditions for decision-making. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the CRIME PROCEDURE (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 have been declared to the proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration tabled an amendment to the law proposal. Proposer Snezana Malovic, minister of justice, accepted the amendment during a review of the bill in particular. Please let us plead as well. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz, with correction, MP Boris Aleksic and a group of 21 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, one MP voted for this amendment. I'm realizing it wasn't accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction. Please let us plead as well. Of the 130 MPs, 128 voted in favour of the amendment. I understand the amendment has been accepted. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, MP Dragan Shormaz, with a correction, together with MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Cedomir Jovanovic, Nenad Milic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic, Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojić, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Please make a statement. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour of the amendment. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 2a be added after Article 2a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that in this case there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force the next day of publication because it is necessary to avoid the adverse consequences of the country's security, the work of state authorities and the exercise of citizens' rights. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 were declared. I find that the National Assembly has found that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in general. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Corrections (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, so we move on to a decision on amendments. The amendment, added in front of article 1 by a new member of the 1st, was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Please make a statement. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Of the 130 MPs, one MP voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in general. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. We move to a vote on proposals for a law on ratification of international agreements on points 3 to 6 of the agenda. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 3 to 6 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. Rules of Procedure, on these bill proposals, vote only in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the visa (vote) I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for AZERBJAN'S LAW ON THE COURT OF THE GOVERNMENT BETWEEN THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE Government OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBIANS ON THE COURT OF THE VIS FOR THE VEHICLES OF DIPLOMATIC AND SERVANT PASES (vote) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Accords between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on the release of visas for their countries (vote) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, 129 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on the release of visas for holders of diplomatic or official passports (vote) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Of the 130 MPs, all 130 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session held on 20 October 2010 at 17.25 p.m. he was injured by Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please plead. Two for, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Natasa Jovanovic said at a session held on 20 October 2010 at 17.35 p.m. on Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please plead. One for, of the 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Thank you for your cooperation. Let me just inform you, the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly continues on Tuesday, October 26th, starting at 1:00 p.m.
