ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40736	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two questions for Mr. Cvetkovic's Prime Minister. First question. According to our rules of procedure, we have the right, based on Article 235, to request notice. It's a well-known thing that in a very small number of questions we get an answer. You have repeatedly pointed out, as Parliament's president, that through the service, you insisted that ministers, or those to whom questions were referred, give us answers, but I must say on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group that this year we have received only one answer from all asked questions, each Tuesday and Thursday. My first question for the Prime Minister is why is it that the Government, as someone representing the Government, does not respect the Rules of Procedure, and why does it not provide us with answers to the questions asked? The second question is also for the Prime Minister. The euro broke the 100 dinar psychological limit yesterday. Today has reached a 100.98 dinar record, which is also the average rate of the euro. Prices of oil derivatives also have a historical maximum. On the other hand, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, the euro had the lowest value compared to the dollar, and raw oil is worth only $70 per barrel. So when we had the historical value of oil on the world markets two years ago, the price of derivatives in Serbia was about 110 dinars, and now that oil has very low values, we have historical maximums. Regardless of what we are part of the world, it is obvious that some things in the world are not valid in Serbia. We have the historical value of the course, the prices of the derivatives rise, the number of unemployed rises. For example, when the total number of employees per capita is observed, Novi Sad has 44% of employees compared to the total population, in Belgrade there are 37% of employees compared to the population population, and 13 municipalities in Serbia have fewer than 10% of the population! When you look at the municipalities, you will see that they are deployed throughout Serbia's territory. These are: Cereals, Opova, Bogatic, Barbarian, Lebanese, Preshevo. So ten residents in these municipalities live on just one salary, no matter how much that salary is. When we compare the total income, not only the average salary, but when you take the average salary and the average pension in some municipalities, in Novi Sad, the average is 21,130 dinars, in Belgrade, 20,670 dinars, but in the entire Toplička County, 6,500 dinars, in the Jablani County, is 6,200, i.e. that average is just over 12,000 dinars in Serbia. On the one hand, we have price increases, and on the other hand it's obvious that with wages and pensions things aren't going well. In the whole situation, the Prime Minister tells us that Serbia has formally emerged from the crisis. Mr. Krasic says statistically. Obviously, we have a serious problem. What interests us and what we ask the Prime Minister is – when will Serbia really, essentially come out of the crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40737	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40738	First of all, when do I get answers? I understand that I asked where Bozi Djelic got eleven million euros, so I don't have that answer, but I asked much simpler things, that the Justice Department delivers me charges against Stanko Subotic Canet, to see what crime he's accused of. Here, to this day there is no answer. I can't conclude anything else, but to conclude, here, Mr. Krasic, "the crow's neck doesn't take out" that it's a fundamentally united criminal enterprise for the robbery of this country. Obviously, after this interview that Stanko Sobotić gave to podgorje TV, he said that he had given the data and said, "I want you to be calm, otherwise I'm going to start to express everything I know and who I'm connected to, because I'm certainly not going to sink." That chain has to end in the end. Here, you have yesterday and today (it seems that the bar has become very tight, crocodiles have started eating each other) accusations against Vacu that he is trying to take over the distribution of newspapers across Serbia from Future. Now they come to the surface of all the things I claim, and any reasonable man can conclude that in the sale of Luke Belgrade, "News", "Ce Market", etc. Criminals, politicians and tycoons practically robbed this country. You're in no position to answer that. What's particularly interesting is that some who allegedly came to help us, like Bodo Hombah... What was it called, the Stability Pact of Southeast Europe, and I would rather say a pact for the robbery of Southeast Europe. They're all teamed up, and nobody's got anything. I'd also like to ask Mrs. Kolundji if she's received an answer as to how the privatisation of Luke Belgrade was done. What about the response to how much Luka Belgrade had in 2005 in December on the bill? This is amazing, you're robbing, you won't admit it. Well, you won't admit it because the prosecution is in your hands, because it's an instrument used to deal with political opponents, not for really preventing a robbery and for what the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic promised, that you will go into crime. Now I have no one but you, Madam President, to ask the question – what will you do to get at least a partial answer to these simple questions? You see, it's obvious that the Department of Justice was in the service of those who were supposed to rob even Stanko Subotic Canet. They filed charges against him to eliminate him from this country. They thought it solved the problem, they were wrong. You, instead of helping, insist... I understand why Mrs. Kolundji's silence, she could get all the answers from God Djelic. God knows everything about Luke. It has all the papers; among other things, it has black on white, it is Mrs. Barac in her letter and cited. You by your authority... And what's very important is that you weren't in power during that period. You're being charged by 2000. Since 2000, the most responsible have been "yellow". Why don't you insist on getting this institution's reputation? Why should the reputation of the congregation be destroyed at the time of your term of office? This would be the best move and the best step, if according to all these institutions whose addresses went to these questions definitely, I don't know which way, in writing, through the media, you have many opportunities, really... Either to send the answers or to ask the MPs, since this is a wasteful and groundless job, not to ask any questions, because we're wasting valuable time and valuable money on our citizens, which I'm guessing isn't... (President: Time. Thank you. )......................................................................................................... in the interest. I'd like you to let me know what you're gonna do about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40739	The Rules of Procedure absolutely envisioned what the president of the Assembly and the Assembly is doing in case the MP does not get an answer to the parliamentary question within 14 days. So, we update, we write the request again, and we do it all the time. However, since you asked me if I would do anything to strengthen Parliament's reputation, I ask you to help me with that. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40740	Dear President, I am asking the services of the Serbian Parliament if it is true that Mr. Todorovic has not received an answer to the issue of privatisation of Luke Belgrade, because I have received it. Therefore, the response clearly shows that the privatisation of Luke Belgrade and the "evening News" was carried out during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. In that sense, the Democratic Party was in no way involved in the privatisation. I also want to say that the only question I didn't get an answer to is whether Mr. Todorovic's claim was true that Luke Belgrade had so many funds on account. In that sense, I repeat the question, asking whether it is true or just the manipulations they use for daily policy purposes, was there as much funds as Mr. Todorovic claims it was at the expense of the government of Vojislav Kostunica? I would really ask, unless the truth is brought out here, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and applying the Rules of Procedure, measures are taken against MPs if they claim that they have not received the answer, and they have received it, that in some way both the Serbian Parliament and the MPs know that it is part of the abuse, but that the public is informed that these issues have become a means of bringing untrues to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40741	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word. (Dragan Todorovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40742	Your Honor, we have two questions for today. One question is about foreign policy, about European integration... (Dragan Todorovic: He throws it to me.) I feel threatened. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40743	Mr. Todorovic, you will be protected, but allow us to work. Please, you will certainly be protected. Mr. Andric, I'm returning time. Sign up again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40744	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we have two questions for today. We think that both issues are crucial to our future and therefore we ask the Deputy Prime Minister, present here, that if possible, and I think so, provide an answer to these questions. The first issue is partly about the foreign policy issues of European integration. It is a question – what is Serbia's plan for participation in a meeting or conference in Sarajevo? Under what conditions does Serbia participate in the meeting? What's the point of these conversations? Who on behalf of Serbia participates and who has defined the platform for these talks and for what purpose? We're asking this question because we're getting conflicting information. As far as we can see, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been informed of the meeting, which concludes that the foreign minister is showing a desire or intention not to participate or be fenced at the meeting. From the cabinets of the president and the foreign ministry of each other's country, we are getting information that Serbia is taking part in the meeting. We support you in Serbia's going to that meeting. We think that such a thing as indirect recognition of Kosovo does not exist as a political process. Please don't do this through the ruse, just go to parliament and tell me what the plan is. Is the plan and the theme of these talks an exclusion of mobile telephony to Serbs in Kosovo? Is the life of Serbs in Kosovo? What's the plan? Or is it just a plan for someone to go and take pictures, as was the meeting with Croatian President Josipovic, without any pre-prepared goals and talks, without any desire to fix anything realistic? We expect an answer to this question as soon as possible, given that the meeting is organised and will take place within the next few weeks. The second issue is much more important for the citizens of Serbia, and it concerns the economy. On Saturday, there's fuel in Serbia... Serbia has become a record player, fuel in Serbia has accumulated and today is the most expensive in Europe. The government, on the one hand, is engaged in demagogy by allegedly half of its ministers against the gathering, and the other half justify it. It all seems through the release of texts in the media, without any serious debate. We ask you, Mr. Djelic, as vice-president of the government, which is Serbia's plan, which is the Serbian government's plan, what will the Serbian government do next to meet the problem and solve problems? Whatever Serbian citizens have one of the lowest standards in Europe, fuel pays the most expensive in Europe; it is more expensive than in Switzerland, as we could see from the media. That's the question of course. If domestic currency has lost value compared to the euro and the euro has lost value compared to other currencies, we ask you what is the real depression of the dinar? Why is such information hidden? It is simply not possible for the dinar to be depressed by the euro, that the euro has the same attitude towards the dollar, yen, pounds, and we do not know how this has affected, say, Serbia's external debt. Please give us an answer to this question, especially issues concerning fuel, economics and, of course, issues about the Sarajevo conference.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40745	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, you can't get a word based on the replica, or on the Rules of Procedure, at the time of the 235 institute. So, 235 is still in effect. I ask if there are any presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who want to exercise their right to Article 235? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Đorđe Milicevic, Milan J. Nikolic, Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Riza Halimi. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of a joint single review of the agenda points from 6 to 12, in addition to the representatives of the motion of Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister of Science and Technological Development, Ivica Dačić, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of Interior and Minister of Interior and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, invited the sittings to attend and: Zoran Ćirović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Predrag Marić, Assistant Minister of Interior and Minister of Interior, Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister for Infrastructure, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Snez-Petrović, Assistant Minister of the Department of Finance and Regional Development of Economy and Regional Development of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Croatia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. We move to a joint single search of the 6-12th agenda – THE PROPOSAL ON CONFORMATION OF THE CONTRIBUTIONS WITH THE EIB ON THE RURAL SECTOR AND DONATION FOR THE BELEGRAD IPA 2008, THE FUNDMENT ON FREE TRADE WITH THE EFTA STATES, THE CONVENTION ON THE RECOGNISATION OF THE EUROPEAN PATS, THE SINGAPORTURAL LAW, THE MESSAGEMENT FOR THE PREVENTION OF KATASTROF IN SOUTHISTIC EUROPE AND THE CONTRIBUTION WITH CROATIA ON THE PURPOSE (ad) Mr Dragan Todorović appears in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40746	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104 regarding Mrs. Hope Kolundji's exposure. It was clear that her insinuation was that I had received an answer to the questions I had asked, and to cover it up, which is absolutely not true. There are so many questions, I keep repeating them here, that it's simply pointless to ask if I've got answers or not. I didn't. Even when I get an answer, I publicly state here what they wrote to me when I asked a question. Mrs. Kolundjia, you know, I don't care at all which government is what and when it's robbed. I know in these ten years you've been constantly robbing yourself in continuity. I know you weren't in government in 2005, but you were in 2007, and your representatives. One of your representatives is sitting here today, that's Mr. Bozidar Djelic. He's got everything on Luka Belgrade, and to this day, there's no answer. Unequivocally, all the things that stand, related to Luka Belgrade, say that an incredible robbery has been committed. You're going over it. Your goal is only to deceive the citizens of Serbia that you allegedly want things to be revealed; in essence, you want things to just hide and do everything to cover things up. Why are there no answers that companies privatised to "News"? What about the company that privatized Luka? Where'd the money come from? That's the point. They say it's through the bank. You see these banks are essentially connected to all of them and they're laundering money. Who else can launder money rather than banks, and those banks that are here in Serbia, none of them are reportedly all foreign banks. But that's not true either, that chain has to be exposed once. You can do it very easily. There is no cash transaction greater than 10,000 euros... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... One that can't be determined where it comes from, and you can't find out about 40 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40747	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40748	I'm using article 101, right on the line. What I'm trying to say is that I'm absolutely certain that the competent institutions in this country are working to determine the full truth of everything that possibly carries elements of any abuse or crime within them. I am afraid that many of you will not like what will be found on that occasion, but I am sure that it is the interest of this government to remove any doubt and any responsibility, above all from the state institutions, that they are involved in some abuses that have damaged Serbian citizens. I expect the issue of privatisation of Luke Belgrade and the "evening news" will be fully clarified. Not only to clarify, but I really expect, if it is found that there has been abuse or that someone has used some kind of political influence at a time when privatisation and privatisation have been carried out in an illegal and illegal manner, that anyone responsible will indeed answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40749	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that MP Zoran Kasalovic will represent the SPS-JS Group during a joint single search. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Zoran Kasalovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40750	Dear Presidents, Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a debate on seven draft laws confirming financial contracts, grant agreements, agreements, conventions and memorandas. I would like, in short, to comment on some of these proposals, given the view of the SPS - JS. I think that in the context of the Bill on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, it is necessary to say that Serbia has been through a rough period of change in the political and economic system over the last twenty years, so that there has been practically a change in the socio-economic system. Serbia is going through a difficult transition process, which is very painful, which produces many problems, including the low competitiveness of our production on the world market and an increase in unemployment and poverty. In such a situation, unfortunately, the most productive part of our nation cannot be employed, but perhaps even the bigger problem is that the highly educated are leaving the country. Of course, if this process were to continue, it would threaten the real danger of getting into an even bigger problem than the environment, we might become completely uninterested or, worst of all, slow down our way into the EU. The European Investment Bank is a financial institution that approves loans under the most favourable conditions, primarily for improving and modernising transport infrastructure, then energy infrastructure, as well as development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia has entered into negotiations with the bank to conclude a multi-project loan agreement. I think it is particularly important for the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector), which was concluded in Belgrade on 4 March this year. The contract envisions the realisation of projects and activities of the revitalisation and modernisation of research centres, the establishment of a new research centre, the building of accommodation facilities for students and young scientific workers and the modernisation of the university computer network. The total value of the project is 420,00,000 euros, of which it is planned to provide an amount of 200,000 euros through the bank's loan, while the rest of the funds will be provided by the Republic of Serbia either from its own funds or from other arrangements. The plan is to spend the loan on the adaptation of existing buildings and laboratories in Serbia; for the Petnica Research Station and Campus of the Mathematical High School; for the human resources programme, with the aim of attracting about 1400 Serbian scientists currently working abroad; for the Centre for the Promotion of Science in Belgrade; for new housing buildings for young researchers in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, and for the construction of technological parks in these cities. The credit is on favourable terms, with a grace period of six years. What is important, by essentially implementing this project, we expect a faster development of science in the area of modernization of production, which would certainly increase the competitiveness of our placement goods on the world market. In this way, we expect to create a new production and a higher level of exploitation of existing capacities, which would require the possibility of hiring new personnel, particularly young people. We think that opening new laboratories, research centres, modernising computer equipment will create the prerequisites that a number of our highly educated personnel who are currently in the world and dissipating find an interest in returning to RS and that a full contribution to the extraction from this lagging, in some sense, and poverty caused by the current economic crisis. When it comes to the financial grant agreement, relating to the simplifications for infrastructure projects for the local framework, within the framework of the IPA 2008 programme between the European Investment Bank, the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade, the realisation of the European Community concept and the objective of a balanced and coherent development of the common market, particularly in parts of the markets that are underdeveloped, in countries with a perspective of joining the European Community. The European Community, through the European Investment Bank, provides loans and guarantees on a non-profit basis and also places funds supplied on the capital market under the most favourable conditions, i.e. to fund investment programmes with the participation of the EU Structural Funds and other financial instruments. It is a kind of pre-accession fund to prepare the country for EU accession. The concrete financial agreement provides for the European Investment Bank to grant us a 90m-euro loan to implement the tram rail reconstruction programme and the main traffic networks in Belgrade, as well as the modernisation of the remote traffic management system and the reconstruction of tram vehicles. Out of the total amount of funds, the amount of sixm euros is made available to the city of Belgrade as a beneficiary of donation funds. This contract was concluded on 3 March 2010, with the fact that the donation was realised by the end of 2015. The contract shows that it is a clear procedure and way of using this donation, and it is clear that we are entering a phase when we will increasingly use funds from EU pre-accession funds and where each use will be subject to rigorous control. I think it is very important to stress that it is necessary for the state to form an organisation of full monitoring of the control and spending of the funds received like this. Negotiations within the World Trade Organisation, the signing of the SAA with the European Union created and imposed the need to sign an economic co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA Member States. Given that the EFTA Member States, which are Norway, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein, are on the territory of Europe, and we expect to join the EU, the signing of a free trade agreement with the EFTA countries has huge economic and political importance for Serbia. This would expand Serbia's free trade zone throughout Europe. On the other hand, with many EFTA Member States Serbia is developing external trade activity. EFTA Member States, especially Switzerland and Norway, are investing greatly in Serbia, so Norway is the third investor in Serbia because it bought the "Mobtel" for 1.5 billion euros. In addition, several major companies have realised investments in Serbia in the area of equipment and machinery production, as well as cardboard packaging. Switzerland also holds a high position on Serbia's largest investors' list by buying cement in Popovac, buying a majority package of shares of the timber "Health" and others, and it is certain that the signing of the agreement will lead to an expansion of co-operation. The signed free trade agreements are equated with agreements with the EU, so that a very simplified procedure in the documentary work, along with the full customs release of goods exported by Serbia and the gradual removal of customs duties (by years) of goods that Serbia imports from many countries. The draft law confirming the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents regulates the supranational system of standards and the procedure for recognising European patents. The patents are recognised by the European Patent Office in the territory of all the countries signatories of the European Patent Convention. Until now, 36 European countries have signed the Convention. By confirming the Convention on the European patent, Serbia fulfils the obligation of the SPS, as well as the obligation under the CEFTA agreement. The bill quite transparently regulates the patent application process at national and European level, their approval, i.e. recognition and the conditions under which the patent is realised. Detailed procedures for dispute settlement, taxi payment, patent registration language and commission organisations and patents services have been regulated. With its internal legislation, the RS has a very well-developed system of essential research, which establishes whether the finding is new and whether it has all the characteristics for industrial application, which facilitates faster access to the European Patent Office. A uniform procedure for the application and recognition of patents provides an efficient system for the protection of intellectual property rights, simplifies the procedure for the faster recognition of the patent in question in the territories of all the members of the European Patent Convention and enables the rapid industrial application and innovation approved by the European Patent Office. There are very similar reasons for the adoption of the law attesting the Singapore Treaty on trade mark law. When it comes to the Bill on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the Southeast European region, I would like to remind that the Memorandum of Cooperation and Action in the event of disasters was signed in Sarajevo in April 2009, so that Serbia is the 11th member, apart from all the countries in the environment. The fundamental intensity of the bill's proposal is to strengthen the capacity of a disaster management organisation to legalise activities to improve bilateral and multilateral co-operation of countries in the region, particularly in the exchange of information. The bill also envisions the dynamics of holding meetings, ways of funding and exchange of information. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia was signed in Belgrade in October 2009. Serbia has significant waterways on the Sava, Danube, Tisi, Velika Moravi and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel. In fact, a very significant Corridor 7 passes through Serbia, which can bring significant revenues to transport. Unregulated relations in this area, especially in the part of customs formalities, taxi charges and maintenance of water vehicles, have caused serious interference in the performance of efficient transport. Of course, the agreement regulates all controversial issues according to international rules. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the above, the SPS-JS Group will in principle support all draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40751	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40752	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are seven points on the agenda today, and one of the points is this loan represented by Mr Djelic. Of course, the key issue at this point is for Serbia – how will Serbia develop in the coming years, how will we solve the crisis, and how will we ensure continued growth in the years ahead? As far as the Democratic Party of Serbia is concerned, we feel that science, or education, is one of the basic elements on which we can try to ensure safe growth. As far as this loan is concerned, when the reasoning is considered and what all the funds are intended for, not so small, more than 400,000 (of which, 200 million credits and a good part of the funds will be provided from the budget), it is intended to adapt buildings and facilities, to improve the conditions in which people working in science, research station, camp of the Mathematical High School, research equipment, Center for the Promotion of Science, housing for young researchers, apartments and even infrastructure for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. As far as we're concerned, it's absolutely not and it can't be a question. What is missing in this text, if we are talking about a concrete proposal, and what is lacking in reason (which is otherwise an obligation under the Public Debt Act) is how this credit affects the general picture of Serbia. Political parties of the government, all of us individually differ exactly in the way we choose priorities. We talk a lot about it in this room. There is Mr. Colakovic, if we ask PUPS what is the priority, the priority is improvement, it is their programme, improving the conditions in which pensioners live, which are not bad. At the beginning of this session, I was talking, among other things, about it. When Minister Dragin comes, he talks about how to improve agriculture. Yesterday we heard that agriculture is one of the development opportunities. That's not at all controversial. In a country where there are as many problems as Serbia has today, absolutely everything is a priority, but it is clear that there are no funds for everything and it is clear that we have to have a complete picture when we decide on certain parameters. We do not dispute that this is important, we do not dispute that without this there is no development, but I am sure we will not get into the situation in which Greece is. Greece today has completely different priorities. If you get into a situation where your debt is so big and you get into a situation that you can't service your debt, then the priority becomes something else. What is missing in this bill and what is missing in most of our laws is the overall state and overall sustainability of our debt. I'll talk about it. I don't dispute this part at all, but let's see what kind of situation Serbia is in today, how sustainable public debt is and how the situation will change over the years that are coming. Of course, debt goes up to some point, the cost of serving that debt is also increasing, but at some point you have to pay back, because the imposition is getting so big that you can't take it anymore. It has long been said in Serbia that the public debt ratio or sustainability of public debt is 60% of the gross social product, i.e. the criterion set in Mastricht, the criterion applicable to EU countries. It has often been forgotten that the rules in force in the EU cannot apply to us. First, we don't have that degree of protection. Secondly, we have a lot of uncertainty about the growth of gross social product in the coming years and how much of the debt we will be able to serve. A large debt guarantees great wars, and yet it can only be serviced from public incomes, which are not unlimited. There are still a lot of jobs to be done that need to be financed from public funds. Let's say, one of the laws we have to pass as soon as possible, which unfortunately we haven't passed yet, is the law on denationalization. There are different estimates of how much this law will burden Serbia. Some estimates are moderately optimistic, that it is about two billion euros. What's the public debt today? How are each of these new loans going to reflect on the public debt situation and how do we even record and do we even have a picture of how this situation changes from day to day? Let's just say, we have an interesting example. We passed a law more than two months ago on an emergency procedure that provided liquidity credit to "Serbiagas"; Bank of Intez, two loans, one 170, the other, seems to me, 150 million. When you look at the table, if those funds were withdrawn three months later, there is still no public debt table. The question arises – if they had a liquidity loan, that means they needed it urgently, if they had already concluded a contract, why didn't they withdraw those funds? When you look at the table in which... Public debt is recorded in two different places in Serbia: one in the finance ministry, one in the National Bank. When you look at the finance ministry's table, there's our external public debt of seven and a half billion, and when you look at the map of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, there's our external public debt of four billion and seven hundred. The difference is two billion and seven hundred million euros. Two billion and seven hundred million euros is 9% of gross social product, and then our public debt is not 31.5%, according to the finance ministry, but is over 40%. Is what the National Bank is in charge of Serbia's obligations? I think so, because every year because of the various problems that the National Bank has part of the budget of the Republic of Serbia is going to settle the debts made by the National Bank. The second question - is this arrangement with the IMF a public debt? He says public debt doesn't count because the National Bank was in debt. Wait, the National Bank only sold 90m euros yesterday trying to ease the drop of the euro in Serbia. Those funds are paid interest. Those funds have to come back someday. Call him a loan now or call him back, find whatever name you want, but that's something that will burden all Serbian citizens. The main question is what is the rate of sustainability of public debt in Serbia? Is it 60% or is it less? I'm sorry he's not with us today and the finance minister Mrs Dragutinovic. I understand she has obligations in negotiations with the IMF. I'm glad Mr Djelic is here, so he doesn't get me wrong, but the basic question today is what is the rate of sustainability of public debt in Serbia? Is that that 60% or less? I was particularly interested in that question. I read all the official documents of the government, but I also asked a parliamentary question more than two months ago. I asked the finance minister if the government has an estimate of how much the long-term sustainable public debt ratio towards the gross social product is? I asked a question on March 15th, 2010, and I still haven't received an answer to that question. It is very interesting that I did not get an answer to that question, and the minister in an interview with "Politika" on April 28th, after talks in Washington with the IMF, says it is 40% of GDP. Why is this a secret for the MP of the people and why is it not responding to the MP of the people, and the answer is routinely given “Politicals”? It's not a question for me, it's a question for the finance minister. Obviously, we're dealing with a 40% of GDP figure. The question is, is it realistic, if according to official data, the Ministry of Finance is a public debt today of 31.5% of GDP? But if we take the National Bank's data, which is 2.7 billion higher, then we already have 40% of GDP today. The fiscal responsibility law to determine these parameters is widely announced. In particular, it should be pointed out that this is a very important law, that this law exists in a large number of countries, that the law was first passed in Germany and Japan, in highly developed countries. It has been brought by a number of developing countries, but it has a large number of undeveloped countries. The basic question is, what's the point of the law if we see today that what the law says is completely inconclusive, if we already have that 40% today, if we want to add it up honestly? Then the finance ministry says yes, but part of the debt (local self-government, national bank debt, debts of some agencies) is not a public debt. It's the same question with those guarantees. You know, Mr. Djelic, you used to be Minister of Finance, you know how many public enterprises are in debt, and all debts are settled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the basic question for us today is how do we make the best use of these resources? You and I used to talk a long time ago about how to make public debt management, which exists today, but that will analyze every investment. This is one of the tasks of the state audit, to see how these borrowings will be used in the best possible way and how we will increase GDP by borrowing. That's the basic question for us. If we look at each segment individually, we will always tell you – yes, you should; you will never hear from us – let's see. Because it's the government's job to tell us how he chooses priorities. You know, when you get paid, you can't buy everything you need with pay, you have to choose a priority. That's the way it is with the state. We need to see what the priority is. We need to know which way this country is developing and how we're going to make the best use of these loans. There are many differences between us and Greece, but there are many similarities. Our problem, which Greece does not have, is that exports are small, which the restructuring of the economy does not go quickly and that we will have a problem with the trade deficit in the years to come. We compensated for the trade deficit for years of privatisation, and you see the situation with Galenika and Telecom. That situation isn't as great as it looked at first sight. Therefore, if we continue to have a trade deficit, we can only compensate him for borrowing, such as one way to close our budget deficits in debt. So, we need to talk about it, see what the sustainability limit is, because as long as we're talking about each thing individually... We had a debt of 330,000,000 for "Srbigas" two months ago, which is 1% of the social gross product. They need it for liquidity, they need it for underground storage, for all the things they really need. It's not a dispute, but we also need it for roads and for everything else. And what we don't have an answer for is what are real priorities? How much does each of these things help to develop a gross social product, and how will we serve it all in the years to come? Do we have a high degree guarantee that we will succeed in the years ahead of us to repay these debts? Last year, many of the favourable loans we have withdrawn since 2001 have passed those periods when interest rates were low, and the rates are increasing and higher. Now, reforms are being negotiated in the pension system, but serious reforms in health and education still do not exist. These are all the problems that will burden us in the years to come. As far as we're concerned, at the end of this first part of exposure, science loans have their full justification. Without the development of science, we can hardly talk about the serious development of the state. There are examples of countries in the world that are significant investments just in science, in scientific structure, in years... In this regard, it should be borne in mind that these are long-term investments, which do not result in short-term short-term investments, but only countries that have had a high degree of investment in education and science have had long-term good results. As far as we're concerned, we support investment in science, but I say we worry that there is no serious analysis of the total package and the certainty of the sustainability of our debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40753	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we, as MPs, were to take a stand against these agreements that the Government has taken, given that we have been waiting four days for her to come to the Assembly, even when she appears to be silent and has no intention of talking to the MPs, we would probably be silent today. But, of course, whatever our aspect is of these agreements, critical or aspect of support, they really need to be commented on and said a few words, of course not about everyone. Some of my colleagues from the SRS will certainly deal with certain agreements, but, behold, I will give myself, within this time of an authorised representative, the right to comment on a few agreements and to express through these comments what your relationship is and what citizens of Serbia can expect from these agreements, how essential they are to us and how important it is to discuss them today, in the time we are in. Only in Serbia is it possible to discuss within one item of the agenda the research station in Petnica, tram tracks, disasters, borrowings on another basis, waterways etc. So it's only possible in Serbia. Then the government expects us to have a serious and rational discussion, and the citizens of course expect this assembly to offer them something that will really solve their problems. In a bunch of these agreements, there is a Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative on Prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the Southeast European region. I suppose our task should be today, or yours, Mr. Minister, to convince those unfortunate people in southern Serbia that they only needed this memo, so they don't get what happened to them ten days ago in the Jablanic district, or what happened at the Shop on Saturday. We have to stop fooling the citizens of Serbia. What happened in the Shop on Saturday is indeed a disaster and there is no one who could stop nature and the weather, but here the question is what was the institution's reaction, from first to last? How did she react, first of all, to the local self-government of all this? How do you react to local self-government, which is exactly what you do? The authorities in that municipality are you who are also the government here, and who, down here, in a small and unfortunate municipality, behave like horns in a bag and who, in that little poverty, with four or five thousand citizens, cannot share your functions and cannot find the measure to meet and hold a regular session of the Assembly in three months. Now the citizens of Commerce and all of us together should expect an adequate state reaction, and you who represent it below cannot share the directorial and presidential posts. Now we're going to sell the fog that we need a memo in case of a disaster and that's going to solve the problems in the Shop, Leskovac or wherever. I don't want to exploit this subject. I've been down there on Saturday, not because of this, and there's been a tragedy down there, there's human casualties. Exploiting that subject in this way, I don't think it's delicious. I leave that to those who are yesterday and who will be photographed today in that area. Here we should certainly comment on and say a few words about the responsibilities of Mr Obradović – research and development in the public sector. Mr. Djelic, a few weeks or months ago, in a pompous way, you presented this 200,000-dollar loan that you will withdraw for investment in science and education. With a little more reserve on it, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic spoke, since she knows what extra ballast we are putting on the burden of the citizens, that is to all those who are going to pay this money back. Of course, her attitude wasn't official, but I don't know how rationality was. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Djelic, did you have a chance to read, a few days ago a study has been published saying that two-thirds of the graduate students want to leave this country? Who are you pulling this money for? I have no doubt that the same number of students were on your side in 2000 and that the energy of those students put you in the chairs you're sitting in. Give us an answer here what you've done for those students. If it was a "dictator" and a regime to go to the students by 2000, I ask you who's to blame today? Does Serbia still have a dictator today or has the regime it had before 2000? Who are you pulling this money for? What have you done to oblige these people to invest their knowledge, quality and value and give Serbia? You haven't done anything, but you're willing to, in the name of a generation that won't spend this money, but this money will pay back, you're withdrawing new funds. Of course, my colleagues will talk a little more about this agreement. I will remain in agreement with the EFTA States today, but before that, I will comment on an agreement through which you will spend the funds of pre-accession funds. It is nice that Belgrade will reconstruct the tram tracks, but Serbia is not only Belgrade. I have nothing against it, nor do I question the need for Belgrade to look like a metropolis, because it is in some way the face of the Serbian state, but what I want to ask you is: when will the rest of Serbia be prepared to spend funds from pre-accession funds? You've been in power for ten years. Since you came to power, we've only spent two of the five components. Why? Because you weren't able to save the state and spend the money you might be able to spend objectively? I ask you openly, are you able to fulfil the obligations and tasks you set before yourself by the end of 2011? Will your decentralised fund management system be accredited by the end of 2011? It will, it will be a bit tomorrow, because when you open the pages, when you see what you're expected to do... Ten years wasn't enough for you to meet, now you're going to do it in a year, a year and a half. How many municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have the capacity to meet these challenges? What are you obliged to do? To raise administrative capacity, to have an optimal number of public sector employees. Have you taken over everything you've committed to since the adoption of the maximum number of employees bill? Yeah, a little bit tomorrow. You should have an adequate and competent professional staff in the public administration, from local to state. Do you? A little bit tomorrow. These people should be able to write projects, and projects that should receive a positive assessment in these funds should be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budgets. When we talk about projects, tell us, both to ourselves and to the public, how many undrawn funds are in the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank or any other bank? This government sends it to the Assembly, these MPs of yours ratify it, and you can't withdraw it because you don't have project documentation. Who's to blame for that, the opposition, or who's been sitting in those chairs for ten years? You come before us and you convince us that this is what we need and Serbia goes on. You're taking the first steps on the way to raising standards in this country. It's a hypocrisy we can't agree with and we can't find a single word of understanding for that attitude and that kind of relationship. Of course, what I will devote most to in my time is this agreement. It is the most extensive, both by weight and by volume, the most extensive, but it was essentially the least significant in this country. From this ministry that came from most of the time, such documents come to us, which write a lot, and essentially don't write anything. I will begin with the arguments offered by this government to the MPs in our assembly. What does it say in one place? He says: "At an economic angle, there is a clear interest in the performance of the EFTA States on the Serbian market," we do not question this, which will also later be the figures that you have offered us in this explanation to prove and confirm, "which is reflected through their investments in our economy and the presence of their businesses. The conclusion of an agreement with the EFTA makes the Republic of Serbia more attractive to foreign investors and creates conditions for new investment in domestic economy. “ You have prepared everything in Serbia, only this agreement to sign and Serbia will become an investment Mecca. Where's legal security? She's gone. Where's financial security? She's gone. Where's the consistent tax system? He's gone. What about liquidity, insolvency, etc., not coming back? Now you're selling us fog here -- if we sign this agreement, Serbia will be better ranked in an investment sense. That's not true. The agreement would make sense that Serbia is more economically potent, that in Serbia exports do not participate with only 20% of the total GDP. In the countries with which you enter into the agreement, exports are not below 40 to 50%. You're right, we're raising trade liberalisation with the countries that we exported to you in 2009 by 55,000, and for the same period we imported 110,000,000 euros worth of goods from them. Who are we doing a favor for, them or us? If you had created a different economic environment in ten years, we might have benefited from doing this. At this point, I will be correct, I will not say that Serbia will have any harm, but those who are on the other side of this agreement will benefit, and it will rather be that you do this for them, but for us. You go ahead and justify this agreement by the fact that Norway, i.e. Telenor, is the third largest investment in the state of Serbia. Before we enter into the investment structure, how is it possible that Norway with Telenor is the third largest investor in Serbia and we didn't have this agreement? We didn't need this agreement to be acceptable to Norway for investment. But, you know, when you don't choose what you're going to use to justify some of your actions, then you get into these contradictory situations. Then we go back to the nature of that investment and the structure. Why is it the biggest? Because it's moving in a sphere where we're dominated by all these ten years by these large foreign investments, in the field of services and trade. What does "Telenor" make, what do we sell based on what makes "Telenor"? He's selling abstraction, and we're all paying for it here. What are we exporting thanks to Telenor so that we can make incomes to pay back the debts you impose on our necks, among other things, through a few agreements that we have here? It doesn't make anything. We're not questioning investment, let them come. Have we felt a billion and a half euros they've offered us, given to Telenor? We didn't, because you spent it in your unreasonable public spending and hoarding budget holes and budget deficits. That's the point of the problem. You can't paint what's rotten, and you're doing it now -- a country that doesn't have an economic substrate of whales, you're making it beautiful. In that fiction you can't live forever, but we're sorry that we're all going to pay together, not just you. That's the big problem of this country. Mr. Djelic, as long as you allow me, I will return to the preamble of this document. There are some very interesting things here to comment on, so if you don't mind, in the course of my time I'm going to ask you a question. You say in the preamble: "Confirming your commitment to democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as political and economic freedoms, in accordance with its obligations to international law, including the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights." I ask you, how many EFTA states respect international law and how many have, in accordance with international law or international law, recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence? My question is, will this agreement apply to the state of Serbia within internationally recognised borders or within the borders they impose on us? That's the first question. The second question is whether these countries will specifically make such an agreement, sign or ratify with Kosovo's so-called. The institutions? That's the first question you obviously didn't take care of when you designed this arrangement with these states. Be careful, this is a graduation of hypocrisy, now watch this – confirming your commitment, among other things, to respect the basic rights of workers. You are referring to the International Labour Organization conventions, you from this government, in which workers cut their fingers, not because they are looking for work, but to pay for what the state owes them, or what the employer owes, and the state promotes a complete weakness to deal with these and those individuals; in a country where you first sign a contract of employment, and only then a contract of work, in which you cannot get a job if you plan to be a mother. You here respect basic human rights? Imagine what a hypocrite it is! You could at least spare us, you who sit across from the tycoon who come out and say, "Whom is easier or who is harder, for us to worry every day or for those who do not work and strike every day for five years?" You sit with people like that and make economic policy, social policy. They regulate the standards by which workers in this country will live and exercise their rights, and you put us in preamble to respect workers' rights, in accordance with international law. I ask you, do workers' rights have the same status, our workers in Serbia and workers in Norway? Bring it in and make a parallel, and we'll accept that this preamble is rational and reasonable. That's the story I'm gonna bring to an end. This is the highlight of, let me say, the graduation, beware: “Consuming the importance of responsible corporate behaviour and its contribution to sustainable economic development... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You from this government are talking about corporate behavior?- I'm sorry. Can any of you sitting here tell us what the corporateisation strategy is in Serbia? Who has defended you for ten years to carry out a change in the legal form of an enterprise in Serbia? You gave up your term of office. You've been telling a story for ten days that the parties won't control their mandates. Why don't the parties give in to the public enterprises you control? You have no intention of giving up the benefits you draw in public enterprises. The problems you've caused in public enterprises have left us all an inheritance. Ten years. You promised to corporate at the local level by 2008. How far did you get? Do you know what you want? Do you know what should be privatized, what should not be privatized? What should be in majority ownership, and what shouldn't be in the majority ownership of the state? That's where you're supposed to promote corporate behavior, that's all you can do. There are companies that behave corporately in Serbia, but with all their knowledge they cannot deal with the economic environment that you create. Or are we going to get the impression of your corporate behavior and your government on the basis of "Meth" and "Telecoma"? Is the model of privatization "Telecoma" a model of responsible corporate behaviour, where will you allow someone to own the company for 40% of the action? We're the only ones who have an interest in selling something that's profitable, which fills the budget and pays back the debts that you put on our necks. Or perhaps “Yat ”? At the phone booth, Mr. Djelic, you agreed to form a new firm. The only thing you haven't agreed on yet is the name. You're looking for a godfather. Four hundred thousand dollars is the founding role of a new firm. What are you going to do? So you'll be able to transfer everything that's worth from the "Yat" to a new company, optimal number of employees, slots, contracts, capital, and torture and robbery and irresponsibility to the old firm, so we'll all be able to pay back the debts of the old firm together, and you as big corporate experts will be looking for a strategic partner for Jat, who has good contracts, no debts, no slots and certainly has an optimal number of employees. Who's not smart enough to be a strategic partner to a firm like that? But we ask you, what about the debts and the accident your incompetent managers, the directors, the management, left behind? Left to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, this assembly and at local level, local authorities. That's why we can't accept what you're offering us, so we think this is a farce. Serbia, if you won't have any damage, there will be no use in any document you've offered us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40755	Do any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by SNS, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and the SRS. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my predecessors, I would first of all concentrate on this point concerning research and development, and then on this agreement with the EFTA countries, because I believe that in this joint united debate these two points are the most important. As for research and development, there is no doubt that you have SNS support when it comes to research and development, when it comes to investing in science. I don't want to comment much, for the sake of the public I'd like to make it clear that we're borrowing about 200,000 million euros, that the plan is that some 420,000,000 euros as a state should be allocated, these additional funds. What bothers me, as an MP, and I trust my fellow MPs, is most of all, in this bill, that we get the impression that you didn't see for yourself how you were going to spend those funds. In an explanation, we have a strong hoot indicated what these funds are intended for. In my view, even some goals are partly and unrealistic, such as the goal of returning 1400 Serbian scientists in some way to our science. It would rather be that by means of these means, we will strengthen scientific institutions and that a number of scientific workers will again find prey outside this country. It is also unclear which projects will specifically spend this money. That's what's the big problem for us. The definition of scientific and technical parks is a good definition and it's already long-term. So far, almost nothing has been done in Serbia on this issue, although there have been strong promises from the government. I hope that when you realize these scientific and technological parks, you will be fully aware that the processing industry, in general, takes industry, within Serbia. Belgrade lives on exports, imports, trade, financial services, real estate, so in my opinion, priority should be given to scientific and technological parks in Nis and Kragujevac. The industry and science industry should allow us to create products with which we can go out to the world market, which, in fact, are not in Serbia today, because it all comes down to some primary production and exporting steel, iron, colored metals. We depend entirely on that export. That's what's the biggest problem, according to us, in this bill. I don't see you having a complete vision. It all comes down to the fact that wherever we can, in any area, we take credit. In this way, we are trying partly to solve the problem of external liquidity, to fill in some foreign reserves, and unfortunately not to see the efficiency of spending these loans and spending plans and some long-term vision. From this proposal, especially from an explanation, I don't see it at all. I would also like to remind myself in a few words that our public debt has been over 10 billion euros, that since 2008, in fact, since this government was formed, it has grown by nearly a billion euros. Every day that debt grows by two and a half million euros. It is high time for us to carry out some more serious analysis during borrowing, to come up with some more serious strategies, so that we can draw some effects from this borrowing in the future, in terms of the development of domestic economy and the better position of our citizens, or a higher standard. As far as this agreement with the EFTA countries is concerned, for me it was a cause, above all, to talk about the liberalisation that has been going on since 2000. With liberalisation you started, coming to power, I mean DOS parties. Since 2000, we have had liberalisation, first of all, imports, you have filled the shops; the liberalisation of credit flows, you have allowed citizens to be in debt, to buy these goods with the help of credit. You're on your way to privatization, you've fueled consumption. You've been selling companies these past ten years. What is the privatisation process, it's not the time to talk about it, what are the effects of all this. You were in charge of the maximum. We have come to the situation that this foreign debt is over 22-23 billion euros. After all, I think it is evident that we created a false picture of Serbia's economic progress in the previous period, that this model is certainly exhausted, a model based on other people's accumulation. It takes a lot of time to turn to our economy. Of course, primarily exports, production, and the situation is getting worse from day to day, especially worse in the previous year. It would be logical that, after such a policy that was led in the previous period, a little bit stopped, to analyse the effects of this policy, to see what in this policy of liberalisation that was implemented in the previous period can be corrected, to correct the situation when it comes to domestic economy, because we, as I said earlier, have nothing to export. What we export is mostly stock products, possibly primary products. All this depends on whether the demand for steel, iron, possibly for colored metals will grow in the European Union. Simply, the spectrum of products that we go out with on the world market is extremely weak, the effects are extremely low, and in the past ten years we have failed to do anything, even if the substitution of these imports we have had. When you look at the structure of imports in 2009, it is catastrophic: 60% of the goods are wide-ranging; 30% of these imports, of some eleven billion euros, the amount they were in the previous year, go to raw materials and re-promaterials. This government, this government for the past ten years, has been unable to ensure that we do not import raw materials and repromaterials! She couldn't secure that production in our country. It's such a disastrous situation when it comes to Serbian production. Not to mention that in the processing industry in 2009 you have a terrible job loss, that the terrible responsibilities of the economy and that the private economy is practically through profit and cost reduction through dismissal solves problems with accumulated debts. All of this should have been taken into account when creating a new economic policy, or at least the change in this economic policy that has been led so far. Unfortunately, I do not notice this from this proposal, which implies further liberalisation of foreign trade, primarily for political reasons, in order to get closer to the European Union as soon as possible, to enter the World Trade Organisation. The economic effects of the liberalisation so far and, if you will, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Trade Agreement with the European Union that followed it are truly devastating. Then, just like now, you promised us a growth in exports. There's no such thing as export growth. In the previous year he even dropped about 20%. You promised us more sophisticated production. There wasn't that either. You promised a higher level of foreign direct investment. In the previous year, it fell to 1,300,000, compared to 2008, when it was 1,800,000. In February, so two months ago, you have foreign direct investments worth only 30m euros. It is one catastrophic level, reminds of the third quarter of the previous year when it was about hundreds of million euros. It's funny for a country our size. It best shows that neither those promises you had... Not to mention the competitiveness of our economy. I was just saying-- importing raw materials, repromation. We're not competitive on the domestic market, we're not competitive at all, let alone going out with some production on the foreign market. So those promises that followed the liberalisation of trade with the EU have not been met, and the same arguments, and you have almost a mirrored explanation in this agreement with the EFTA countries. As far as this political action is concerned, since this economic part and this economic logic are completely lagging behind, as has been lagging behind for years, and there is a lot of problems in this political part. As far as joining the EU is concerned, you must re-enact current housing and be aware of the current developments in the EU, that they are very unfavourable when it comes to the further enlargement of the EU. This applies primarily to us; perhaps Croatia, Iceland, as countries that should be next in the EU accession process, but all serious analyses say that we will have to wait at least another five or six years for those plans that we had earlier and that it may only be 2020 and should survive by 2020. The fiscal crisis itself in the countries of the European Union and the problem of integration in the economic plan within the EU will put political change and enlargement in a completely different way. It's more than obvious today. I wouldn't pay much attention to that. It is clear today, I would say, to all citizens of Serbia. The only thing is not clear to the Serbian government, which continues with the same story, continues with the same path it took years ago, not accepting reality, and the reality has changed significantly. When it comes to joining the WTO, I think there's a serious review waiting for us too, that the fact that we haven't entered the WTO so far isn't some big minus for us. As I said, in this liberalisation, we didn't get any economies of greater scale, nor did we manage to improve our country's economic position through specialization, nor did we manage to secure a greater inflow of technology. In the previous year alone, ten percent of total imports went to equipment, and we already have in this year through the structure of imports and further decline in investment in equipment. Our companies are completely uninterested in production. There is simply no environment where production could develop. Therefore, we have nothing to go out with in the world. That agreement with the WTO will mean almost nothing to our economy. There will be a major problem for agriculture, especially for livestock production, as additional conditions are imposed by Turkey and Brazil in mutual negotiations. We'll see how it all comes out. As far as fruits and vegetables are concerned, we have a lot of problems here. I suppose those WTO negotiations will make our fruit trees worse than they've ever been before. I wish you'd turned a little bit more to the farmers, with some new proposal, in the sense that it's possible for this set to endure somehow, that these prices of oil that grow from Sunday to Sunday (and in the future), because it's obvious that the inevitable depression of the dinars is too much, to sow, so that we have something to pick up in the autumn. Because what we've had so far in Serbia's economy and this economic growth that you boast about for the good part was thanks to agriculture. We had two consecutive birth years. Thanks to this, you could even boast of a positive trend, or positive economic growth. If it wasn't for that, you'd be so negative. But it can't go on forever and farmers can't get over their backs to support this country and promote economic growth and our economy. When you look at all this, it's obvious that the government has not had the will, or still has no will, to significantly review the economic policy it has led to, to turn around to improve the competitiveness of our economy, to start to fight for the export sector. If necessary, go to every company and carry out an analysis of the costs, analysis of the necessary technologies, investments, from sector to sector, in order to have something to go out on that world market. You're still going into debt. It is still an illusion that by entering the EU or any international institution, we will automatically improve the standard of citizens. It's all a simple illusion, like the illusion of the importance of liberalization and openness of our country to the world since 2000. Thank you for your time. I hope that the government will urgently move to change economic policy, to be in the interest of citizens, to be in the interest of the economy, not in the interest of some cheap political promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40757	National MP Milos Radulovic. Excuse me. Mr. Minister, come in. Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40758	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the representatives of the political groups who have made their arguments. I would like to present in the shortest lines these seven legislative proposals that are before you today. We have three proposals concerning science, research, intellectual property, three relating to our country's infrastructure and, finally, an important free trade agreement with four European countries. Let me present to you in this order the arguments that the Government is proposing that the Assembly adopt these legislative proposals, given their character that unequivocally improves the economic situation in our country and, most importantly, enables us to speed up investment in infrastructure, so on. The traditional, hard, infrastructure that will help the Danube navigation to take place easier, that the residents of our capital but all those who come to visit it can circulate better. Also, there are opportunities to react much better to emergency situations like those we currently have, unfortunately, in the south of our country. Then only those investments in people, in our scientific and technological infrastructure and providing a much better position for our inventors in the great world movement, especially in Europe, in the domain of patents and knowledge economies. That's all I think it could provide in this esteemed home if not a full consensus, then I hope that a large number of political groups that are in the opposition can support these proposals. Starting with these first three, in the domain of science, research and intellectual property, what is presented to you at the moment of debate in this house, several weeks ago, as a necessary complement to the amendment of the Law on Scientific Action and the Law on Innovation Activity, which is this arrangement with the European Investment Bank, which at the level of our science really has a historical character. This is the first time that Serbia, at this point in the great domestic and international crisis, finds enough power to say that our future will be in the realm of knowledge, that Serbia will stop exporting smart people in the 21st century, to start exporting in a much larger volume of smart products. This arrangement with the European Investment Bank is a loan, but it is a loan under the conditions of the world's highest quality financial institution. It's a 20-year-old loan, six-year-olds, under the following financial conditions: a framework agreement, with tranches that cannot be less than tenm euros, each of which will have its own financial conditions. At this point, I can say that what will be a choice to withdraw each of these tranches, and we'll have that flexibility dose that the European Investment Bank doesn't always give, but this time it's given Serbia, at this point it's a fixed interest of 4,021% per 20 years, with six years of waiting, and it's a variable eurobor plus 0.812, which at this point represents slightly less than 1.8% on an annual level, so the first tranche... When, I expect, with a large majority of the votes of this house, we operate on this historic agreement for our science, for our research, we will certainly start with this fixed interest, 1.8% per twenty years, with six years of waiting. These are extraordinary conditions, especially when compared to the intentions, which were discussed in the presentations of representatives of political parties, but allow me to repeat some of the most important. In this way we also finance some things that are financed mainly by loans that are much more expensive and much shorter. Equipment, the scientific equipment that is so much needed by our institutes and colleges, which is needed to produce new patents for our science, is mostly funded by loans of several years, the longest five. This time we'll be able to fund it for 20 years. It's the same thing with the important element of this program, which is the return of our scientific diaspora. Rarely when money can be provided for a purpose like this. It's very important that we can do it at the level of what will be the full effect of our return to the world, give them two decades and, believe me, in that period, they will repeatedly return this investment to the nation, there is no doubt. We have in this arrangement a very pragmatic and thrifty principle. It's coming from that infrastructure we have. We're not going to something that's necessary and spectacular, but what's cost-effective and efficient. Therefore, the adaptation of existing buildings and laboratories will carry a good part of this arrangement, some 70m euros in total with equipment. This means, for example, that building in Novi Sad, which has long been sounding empty as an avet, or our scientific "Venice", the large building of the Faculty of Natural Mathematics in Belgrade, which has been sinking for more than twenty years, or what is a good idea that was launched more than twenty years ago, as research stations on Starari (Today it's just a few acres with unfinished buildings), that's all the things we're going to complete with these funds within three to five years. So we will invest in the most efficient and life-saving way and enable and exploit fully what the previous generations have separated, modernised and put into motion for something that will be a knowledge economy for the 21st century. The second element is investment in people. Serbia has one great fortune, and only one, and these are its people: our people who are in the country today, those who have gone because of the difficult recent history, many (and these are difficult decisions) are thinking about whether qualified conditions are to devote at least a part of their career to our country again. This arrangement allows twenty million euros to be used for human resources, for negotiations with our most prominent scientists, because return is not easy for them or for our scientific community. We have to prove on each individual case that it's something that adds to the local scientific community, not subtracting. Therefore, with the return of our diaspora scientists, we also have six million euros to complete the long-started foundations for the stable infrastructure of Petnica Research Station, as well as significant funds for the construction of at least a thousand non-commercial housing units for our scientists (the remaining five lamels in Block 32b, as well as Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac). In the past ten years, it has been observed that those families that have top scientists in their ranks, engineers, who are able to get this kind of housing solution, are much more dedicated to Serbia as the basis of their own lives, and we are all winning. In order for the whole society to have access to the knowledge economy, and in return, that knowledge economy, which is nothing more than Serbia that exports very expensive products and thus, provides in a lasting way better wages and pensions and stability of our dinar... That is why we are going to form and build a science popularisation centre in Block 39, which will have mobile units in Serbia. I can say today, from the moment we started discussing these topics, from the moment we discussed the arrangement, several municipalities from the interior came with very interesting projects towards the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, to provide infrastructure for young people and less young people in the region, the district would provide access to knowledge. We will support such projects. We expect all founding students and high school students with their parents and teachers to be exposed in an exciting way, appropriate to their age, to what the knowledge economy offers. Dear Members, I expect you to be regular guests of this centre in one way that will enable you, in your role to see what the challenges of the knowledge economy for Serbia, which role it can play, which you can play in building such an economy of knowledge, through a seminar programme, through a programme of debate, through the arrival of our experts from diaspora, foreign experts, MPs working on boards for science and technology of other parliaments, to have one infrastructure, a place where you can rightly discuss these very important things. Of course, not even members of the executive government, primarily ministers, as well as directors of domestic and foreign enterprises, will be forgotten. It is an important infrastructure, which will show in the heart of Belgrade which direction not only Belgrade is heading, but our country as a whole. As for the parts that are predicted for centres of excellence, they are, of course, in line with what is the priorities of the adopted Science and Technological Development Strategy. That way in Kragujevac, we will support the efforts of the University and Professor Stojkovic, who decided to return. This will build a modern centre for stem cell research in Kragujevac. As far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned, in a circle of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, we will single out six hectares, in line with the work envisaged for the revitalisation of this key facility, to locate our potentials and those that will only develop in the domain of biomedicine, but also have a parent institution for those plants and teams that we will have in Leskovac, and in Zrenjanin, both in Vrsac and in all those places in our country where there is a pharmaceutical industry. Although scientific and technological policy cannot be fully identified with even regional development in any way, it has a complement to it. When we talk about agriculture centres, I can say that we have certain plants, they have difficulties at this point, but from Cack, through Pozega, Smederjevska Palanka to Zaječar we have interesting opportunities in terms of what, we'll all agree, is a good part of our economic future, and that's agriculture. But not a ton-exporting farm, not a farm that is extensive, not a farm that provides for others to form additional value, but a farm that comes from what we have as a capacity in the seed industry, which today is under great pressure from large, powerful companies. These investments will also help Novi Sad, both Zemun Polje and Kragujevac to cope with this competition and be able to conquer our regional and international markets in decades to come. I can only say that through this goes the infrastructure in the domain of supercomputerry, because supercalculation is the highway of this century. Nations that are not able to provide their economies and their scientists with sufficient capacity on computers, to carry out ever more demanding experiments, to that extent... Today, for example, the most advanced supercomputers are able to simulate the functioning of the human heart and the effects of certain potential therapies, in a way that is not only uninvasive, but completely harmless to human life. From the moment our country received from the EU in 2006, it was a big compliment after a few decades of his death to Milutin Milankovic, who founded the early 20th century in our country a school of research on climate change effects, supercalculation is what will provide for our hydrometeorological institution and many other institutions to become a reference centre for monitoring climate change in Southeast Europe; more importantly, to give real data, indications and suggestions to our agriculture, that varieties adapt to what is, in all likelihood, inevitable and what we see today (a lot more frequent floods, droughts, erosion, i.e. gradual poverty of what is the quality of our country). It's not far, honourable MPs, from one supercomputer to what our peasant can cultivate more and earn. That road is shorter than it's ever been. By voting for one such agreement, the MPs will actually vote for what will largely be our country's economic and social future. As for the remaining two agreements in the domain of intellectual property, the first law on the accession of the Convention on the Recognition of European Patents is the first law. It has existed since 1977, and some may wonder why then the SFRY did not join the convention. Other times, other opinions; at the time, it was thought that the Socialist country of Serbia should not approach such arrangements. That is why Serbia has so far been unable to use 4500 respondents working at the European Patent Office. Our teams in businesses and institutes, colleges had more difficult, more complicated conditions that, for example, they could deposit a patent in our Institute of Intellectual Property to protect their ideas everywhere in Europe. By ratifying this convention, MPs, you will provide an equal match to some of the smartest among us, those who today have both knowledge and entrepreneurial spirit to change the structure of Serbia's economy and to deposit patents that will tomorrow be new products and new additional value through our country's exports. The third element is the proposal for a law of accession to the Singapore Treaty on trade mark law. It's about something where we're already a member, and this is how we accept those changes that followed in 2005. Basically, it is a further simplification of procedures and the possibility that our inventors in the same way as others, this time not at European level, but globally, have the opportunity to report intellectual property and to protect it everywhere in the world. A few words about the three laws that suggest improving our infrastructure. The first is a sixm-euro donation, which comes from several pre-accession pre-accession funds. For those who do not follow in detail, I would like to say that this is a budget that does not come directly from our national pre-accession assistance programme; there is one part that in each financial cycle, the European Commission is allocating for the whole region. This is something where Serbia reacted very quickly, using a decision made on December 9th last year when a single framework was formed and signed to finance infrastructure in the Western Balkans; among the first we were able to propose projects. It is six million euros, which we do not have to withdraw as a loan, but with concrete and clear projects we have managed to obtain as support. It is something that does not mean just (and means much) to the Belgrade citizens, because it is part of a further strengthening of an arrangement that was signed seven years ago to improve the entire tram and rail system. In particular, for these sixm euros, works on the reconstruction of the tram line, tramway contact networks, August, sidewalks, infrastructures in King Alexander's Boulevard, from Vuk's monument to the Street of Master Vukic. I think it's not only in Belgrade, but it's clear to everyone why it's so important for these papers to be completed as soon as possible. Second, to perform works on reconstruction of the two-wheel tram track, tram network, August, sidewalk and installation in Karadjordjeva street. I think everyone who visits Belgrade and even more those who live in Belgrade understand why these two shares are crucial to normal circulation in Belgrade and normal events, not just economic, life in our capital. The third issue concerns the need for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of an initiative for prevention and preparedness for accidents for the Southeast European region. In short, our country has not yet accessed something agreed on in 2007 at the level of our region because we are not institutionally at that moment solved who is dealing with emergency situations. We had a situation that was partly military, and in part the police were dealing with it. In the meantime, it was decided that this capacity that is so important, we see it today in the Shop, we saw it over the week, unfortunately, in Timoko Krajina... Now it's located in a specific part of our M.O.P. This is how we train our country to no longer be empty chairs when colleagues in Southeast Europe come to discuss something that is regional, because we see for ourselves that, unfortunately, these problems that Serbia has at this point are the problems that the whole region has. We know there are additional initiatives and ideas. We know the possibility that in Nis, along with the Russian Federation, one such center might be strengthened. This kind of ratification, i.e. This confirmation of Serbia's accession is a necessary prerequisite. Dear People's MPs, I don't think there's absolutely any reason why this kind of thing, so important to our citizens, we don't achieve the maximum number of votes in this respected home. Finally, the seventh law, an important law, is free trade with the EFTA countries. There were once many more countries, but most of them became full members of the European Union. First of all, I mean Scandinavian countries and Anglo-Saxon countries like Ireland and Great Britain. Now there are two large and two small countries left in the EFTA. The larger ones, perhaps not so much per population, but surely by the success of their economies, are the Swiss Confederation and Norway. These are important countries for our country. When we add to them Iceland and Liechtenstein, we have 255,000 euros each year and, more importantly, 1.8 billion euros of direct investment coming from these countries, primarily from Norway, is among them "Telenor", but also from Switzerland. I can tell you that one such ratification is an important signal for other companies from Norway and Switzerland. We have a series of other agreements that are happening at this time; of course, these agreements are in no way jeopardizing our territorial integrity. Serbia is accessing all international agreements in accordance with its constitution and will not access anything that can in any way endanger our territorial integrity. This is an economic agreement, which a comprehensive Serbia is signing. These are, honourable MPs, agreements which, on the one hand, are intellectual property, in the domain of research and science, historical. This arrangement with the European Investment Bank will allow us to move forward with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. This is the base that has provided us with 23,000,000 euros for the infrastructure of our colleges already today, respected MPs. Here, in Novi Pazar a million euros, for the state University of Novi Pazar – 500,000 euros for equipment, for our youngest state university, for a laboratory that will deal with agriculture, 360,000 euros for a laboratory that will deal with energy efficiency and materials, 160,000 euros for the equipment of a computer centre for the centre. Surely the future of the New Market is largely in the use of this great youth and energy that exists in that city and in this region of our country in this direction. I sincerely hope that all parliamentary groups will, after this debate, see the reasons and arguments to support this agreement with the European Investment Bank and this ratification of intellectual property, and for this second one, it is probably in the interest of all of us to get six million euros in donations, that it is much easier to go to Starar and Vozdovac, that this works much better in Karadjordje’s street; that we can, in the area of navigation (this is an agreement that I have not mentioned so far), work in a much easier way with the Republic of Croatia. We know that it takes a lot more work at Apatino to make the Danube walk in that place. It is a great opportunity, because Serbia is fully involved in the development of a macroeconomic strategy for the Danube, which will have its outcome next year during the Hungarian presidency and ratification. And that we can be present when debated at the level of Southeast Europe on emergency situations, i.e. that Serbia is trading with four successful countries of our continent without delay and without any interference. It seems to me, honourable MPs, Madam President, that here we have elements which are unequivocally positive for the future of our country, and I urge all MPs to join the vote for this legislative proposal. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40759	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40760	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Before I start discussing these seven laws that we have on the agenda today, I'd like to ask you, because you didn't give us a valid explanation, why didn't we have a debate on these laws here on Thursday, May 13th? If you invited seven ministers to attend, it is not clear to me how did it happen that none of these ministers would come to this assembly building and be the one to respect the peoples' MPs and citizens of Serbia, so that we could conduct a debate on these laws within the scheduled time frame? I think that at the very least you are also responsible for the fact that Serbian citizens have additional costs for one job, to say "unworked," days. Mr. Vice President, after these words of yours, I can only say, we are, by this statement, an informative Guadalajara. It's just, I don't get it after this call of yours where we're gonna go and what are we gonna go through? I will remind you of your words, because you are, by the way, a famous optimist who has promised a lot of things, and of these promises many things are not fulfilled. I remind you of what you said just over a year ago in the questionnaire. At the announcement of the crisis, that is, when the crisis has already hit Europe and the whole world, you came to the studio of a television station and euphorically said that Serbia is an isolated island, which will not be affected by the crisis, and a country to which foreign investors will rush, where there will be a lot of investors who will invest money in such a country, which has such an ambience. It would be fair, Mr. Vice President, to tell the citizens what the effects are and to tell the truth - I was wrong about what I said. That's what responsible people do. In the context of this principle debate, I will refer to this proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. This law refers to a project covering the adaptation of existing buildings and laboratories, Petnica Research Station and Campus Mathematical High School, new capital equipment for research, human resources programme with the aim of attracting 1,400 scientists to work abroad (it is regrettable that there are many more, and I do not see from this exhibition how you will attract even 200, let alone 1400 of these scientific workers), new housing buildings for young researchers in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, infrastructure for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, building scientific and technological parks in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. The total cost of the project includes the purchase of land. The implementation of the project was launched in August 2009 and is expected to end in 2015. The total value of this project is 420,800,000 euros. That's where you built a financial structure to make 200,000 euros exactly this loan, to make 25,600,000 euros an instrument of access assistance, and to have the funds of the borrower, or our assets as 195,200,000 euros, that the loan would be paid in a maximum of twenty tranches of ten million euros and that the repayment period was twenty years, with a grace period of six years. The Democratic Party of Serbia supports everything that improves the conditions for the work of young people and their return to the country, but the lack of this project is that, Mr. Vice President, you did not give a detailed description of the work and their professional values and, most importantly, where you will provide 195,200,000 euros for this project. I guess we'll be here soon to have a new ratification of some loan, to finish this project. Mr. Vice-President, in 2009, the Republic of Serbia was in charge of 3,300,000 euros. I will remind you that in December alone, we have ratified seven hundred million euros in agreements here, that in March 2010, we ratified agreements that we have committed to the new 505,000 euros, that you signed a $200,000 Russian loan, which covers budget deficit coverage. I will return to these 505,000-euro ratifications in March, there are about 160,000,000 euros precisely in debt from commercial banks, with commercial interest rates, the same for covering the budget deficit. In 2010 for the preservation of the exchange rate, you withdrew a new tranche of credit from the stand-by arrangement with the IMF of 180,000,000 euros and have already reached a figure of over 1,300,000 euros withdrawn from the stand-by arrangement with the IMF, weighing 2.9 billion euros. Mr. Vice President, do you know that last year you used 659,000,000 euros per year to defend the course from these funds, that you already spent 746,500,000 euros for this year for less than five months? Yesterday was the biggest transaction in a course rescue action, when you spent 90m euros. With this dynamic, if we just count, we will only spend over two billion euros this year to defend the course by the end of the year. The reason is we're importing a lot, and we're practically not exporting anything. In this way, you have endangered those who have ino-obligations based on credit, because every change (i.e. yesterday, the euro has reached a record value relative to the dinar), even from a dinar, creates an additional commitment from our country of 28.3 billion dinars. The question is, how far will the euro go, and how much longer will it create new obligations based on the exchange rate difference? You've also increased your public debt. At the end of 2008, public debt was 25.6% of gross social product. According to information provided by the finance minister and provided by the government, the public debt was 31.5% of GDP at the end of 2009. President Boris Tadic said a month ago that public debt is 35% of GDP. Economists warn us by simply collecting figures that this public debt is already over 40% of GDP. And new ratification loans are already waiting. We would like the Public Debt Administration to finally come up with accurate information on what a public debt is, as it comes out with information that public debt is 10.3 billion euros. According to what well-known economists and experts calculate, and we also know that you have ties to the list "Economist", it is already 12,300,000 euros in debt. Mr. Vice-President, Serbia's external obligations have already reached a figure, what citizens owe, economic operators, banks to abroad and what is a public debt, of 28.3 billion euros. That, Mr. Vice President, is about 80% of GDP. The question is, where will that come from? If we take a simple bill, this government owes citizens 30 euros every second, and at the same time every day, 550 people are out of a job. What bothers every citizen of Serbia is the question of how and from which we will repay these debts when the budget deficit for the first four months was 34.2 billion dinars, when the revenues in April compared to March were less by 2.9 billion, when expenditures were higher than they should and compared to March in April were by 4.8 billion, when there were over 45,000 people left without work from the beginning of the year, and since you were in power over 250,000 people were out of work, when we have 76,000 unemployed registered in the National Employment Service, when 450,000 young and many of them are professional (and you are calling on us to do everything to bring back those who are out of the country) for over a year waiting for work. Mr. Minister, we have over 58,000 companies in a blockade that employs more than 145,000 workers who do not receive salaries. The salaries, Mr. Minister, were 423 euros in 2007, and today they are 320 euros. So the purchasing power has decreased by 103 euros, and the consumer basket is higher than the average wage for the entire 5,000 dinars and is 36,000. An ordinary four - member family cannot afford to meet either the elemental needs or to buy food and pay for the communals. We have over 700,000 people, according to Minister Rasim Ljajic, who live below the poverty line. We have 500,000 hungry and over 40,000 people whose lives depend exclusively on 48 folk cuisines. Every day, Mr. Vice President, we listen to the appeal of celebrities to help open more folk cuisines with their money contributions. You don't do anything to reduce huge public spending, bribery and corruption. The other day, businessmen said that the value of public procurement carried out outside the legal procurement process is over a billion. Mr. Minister, you have deceived the people by promising 200,000 new jobs, 1000-euro shares, higher pensions and salaries. Instead of 200,000 new jobs, we have 250,000 unemployed, you've divided a people's 1700 dinar church, and standards and purchasing power are falling. The salaries, I'll remind you, are down by 103 euros compared to 2007. President Tadic says we will be out of crisis by winter. His adviser, Gordana Matkovic, says that 700,000 people do not have food and that Serbia is even poorer and hungrier. What to say when a minister, who -- finance minister Diana Dragutinovic, can say after the dinar's depression -- we got cheap labour, which is one of our comparative advantages. So, following this statement by Mrs Dragutinovic, we can expect dinar depression, until one euro is worth 250 dinars, and then we will have the most competitive workforce in the world, the cheaper the workforce in Serbia than in Gibuti. Economists and businessmen see the situation more realistically in Serbia and recommend that we are just entering a period of crisis, that the crisis can be resolved and that the first sign of the crisis is an increase in unemployment. There's no new job. The uncertainty is even higher, the domestic market is catastrophic; 12% of businesses are late with credit payments, the average currency for payment is 150 days, and large trade chains (you do nothing, Mr. Djelic, to prevent them from paying off) pay their obligations after 300 days or the terms of the supplier, and you know that they can only charge compensation, i.e. by taking uncompetitive goods from these major monopolies. The government has no clear vision, we saw it at a famous summit in Kopalnik, when Diana Dragutinovic said one thing, Minister Dinkic said the second, the prime minister said the third, and Jelasic said the fourth. You did nothing to start production, exports are small, there are no new investments, you increase public debt, demand declines, and compared to 2009, it's 10% lower, that a man, besides food, can't afford anything from his family's salary. The state, that's the saddest thing and that's where your responsibility is seen, helps only tycoons and takes care of them, because they became creators of economic and state policies; you depend on them and you have to listen to them. You obviously don't have any, despite everything that's been said, awareness of the depth of the crisis. Known economist Mladjan Kovacevic, speaking of loans, said – local loans are disastrously expensive; instead of providing cheaper investment loans, we give cash credits for weddings. To conclude precisely in the words of the well-known economist Mladjan Kovacevic – this government leads this country and the people into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40761	Dear Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to inform you that since 12 hours in the House of National Assembly, groups of law school students attending parliamentary law, this course, and part of today's session are being followed from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. These are: Milorad Gajic, Višnja Lečić, Jovana Tomić, Aleksandra Visekruna, Zarko Kovacevic, Milos Bosnić, Dušanka Lukić, Jovana Minaković, Nebojsa Dubroa, Rade Mrdak, Ivan Tešić, Jovana Jovanovic, Tamara Stojanović, Jovana Veličković, Strahinja Maričić, Tijana Vladisavljevic, Miroslav Veizović, Nikola Savic and Željko Rangelović. Let's give it up for our dear guests. Mr. Secretary has a word. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40762	Thank you, Madam President. Since this has been mentioned several times, I would like to comment on the state of public debt in our country. The Republic of Serbia has, when we look at public debt, and the public debt includes all debts held by the central government, local government and public enterprises in the overall scope, in other words and for those debts it works for, for example, guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, for the EPS, and the EPS so far serves all the international contracts that have been withdrawn, but are registered at a 100% rate as a public debt of our country... It is a conservative way of calculating that debt, which does not have all the countries, but which Serbia has had since the very beginning of the reform of public finances, which I had the honour of proposing several years ago to this assembly, which my successors continued, especially through the Public Debt Act. It's something that allows the entire public debt to be seen. That's 32% of our country's GDP. For the sake of comparison, those countries that are having problems around which the entire European Union has been mobilised have a sovereign external debt of between 80% and 120% of GDP. That is one criterion that shows that Serbia is far below the average of the region and Europe. In that sense, there are no arguments that Serbia is close to the debt crisis. We have to say the whole thing, the whole story, which is that it's not enough to say that Serbia today has 32% of GDP. One of the conditions for joining the EU is to respect the so-called Economic criteria and one of them is that the country cannot have a sovereign debt greater than 60% of GDP. I could, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, say – Serbia barely has a little more than half of that debt, everything is fine. But it wouldn't be something to say because our country at the same time, if we look at last year, which was difficult, had exports that represented some 24% of our GDP, and that's not enough. In that sense, when we talk about debt, we don't just have to compare it to gross social product, but we have to compare it to what is actually a foreign exchange generator that will ensure that this debt is paid, and that's... It's not just, but it's important to monitor what's going on with our exports. In that sense, as long as Serbia does not have a much stronger export sector, and our government is working on it, we will never say that the optimal debt level for Serbia is 60% of GDP. On the contrary, at this point, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing a law on fiscal responsibility and I can tell you that in the draft, which will be the subject of a public debate before it comes to debate in this esteemed home, the figure spoken of as the maximum of debt is significantly below that 60%. It is a precautionary measure, which must exist so that Serbia never falls into any form of debt crisis again. From democratic changes to today, Serbia has paid all its debts per day and cents. It is a reputation that gradually our country is building in domestic and international business and financial circles, which is very important and which ensures that today we can withdraw funds, such as European Investment Bank funds. So at the moment you vote, when this agreement is operational, we're going to choose between a variable interest of slightly less than 1.8% every twenty years, six years starts, and 4%, slightly less - 3.6%, as regards fixed interest. It's a reality. What's important about debt, as I said, is that we see it globally towards national wealth, to see it towards exports, but, of course, we can't stop at what's static, but we need to look at evolution. There are those who say Serbia must be careful in further steps of borrowing. Serbia cannot quickly increase its own external debt, it would not be celibate, because we must also provide at any moment an economy that can service that debt. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia will never propose speedy borrowing. Therefore, what we objectively have as a certain dose of flexibility in that domain must be optimally exploited. This means that after a gradual exit from the crisis, Serbia should not be in debt to serve its current obligations. In a given year, the deficit and its financing must be clearly used to finance exclusively infrastructure projects, in the domain of traditional infrastructure (railways, energy and roads), but also human infrastructure (for education, research and science). In this sense, Serbia has no external debt at all today, but it is right that all those who warn that Serbia does not have that much room for borrowing, given its export sector and what its economy is. That's why, and I think we'll be very complicated here, be very careful with the extra duties. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40763	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Obradovic, there was no basis for replication. (Radojko Obradovic, from the place: You can tell me from the time of the group... ) You can't, you can't just, if you don't understand something, give me a line to explain. (Radojko Obradovic, from the post: Minister addressed me directly... ) He did not replicate, the minister only spoke with argument. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure? The replica? Would you like a replica, Mr. Beard? (Radojko Obradovic, from the place: Yes. Here you go. Mr. Obradich, just once a middle button.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40764	If it's a problem, I'll be very brief. Since the time the finance minister was Mr Djelic, much has changed. I just wanted to quote some documents. The minister spoke directly, in response to my presentation, quite later, but the public debt is currently being conducted in two different places – one is the Ministry of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is the NBS. There are two different tables on which this debt is managed. When you look at the National Bank website, where statistics are officially conducted, the external debt of the public sector is 7,454,000 euros. When you look at the Ministry of Finance site, external public debt is 4,742,000,000. The difference is 2,700,000. When you look at the last information... Since the National Bank is making an analysis of the debt of the Republic of Serbia, in March 2010, they did an analysis of the debt, they explain the difference, and that's what's important to know, because you said something a little different. The difference is that the finance ministry, according to its methodology, does not cover as the external public debt of the National Bank, the unregulated obligations of the Republic of Serbia, including the clearing debt, as well as part of the debt of local self-government and state agencies. That's exactly the difference, that's these two billion and seven hundred. You said there was a unique record. Two billion and seven hundred is 9% of GDP. If public debt and percentage of public debt participation in GDP are taken according to the National Bank, it is already 40%. There are many other parameters. We can talk about them too, because it's not the only indicator of the public debt ratio to the gross social product. You can see for yourself that some of the countries that are members of the EU have relations that are much more than 100%, but there is the ability to repay these debts, so there are important indicators of the debt ratio to GDP, but there is also the commitment ratio that we have. We have already reached about 6% of GDP, as an annual obligation to service that public debt. That's what one of my predecessors was talking about, that last year we served about two, two, and a half billion public debt, because the net debt of the public sector was a billion and something; three billion we owed, two billion back, so that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40765	Mr. Djelic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40766	You quoted the numbers. I have been precise, I have spoken of what is the external sovereign debt, which has passed the procedure of this Parliament. And, like for any debt, someone who borrowed money asks someone to get some guarantee. When the guarantee is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then it is the external sovereign debt of the Republic of Serbia and that is what is seen internationally. What you mentioned is the international obligation of the NBS, which is primarily the programme with the IMF. Where there is a sovereign debt guarantee is the budget, where the NBS guarantees are foreign reserves. On the other hand, what you mentioned, which is, for example, something positive, the city of Belgrade received a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from, if I remember correctly, 90m euros for infrastructure, where the bank did not seek a sovereign guarantee, it considered that the capacity of the city of Belgrade was sufficient not to seek the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thus, he did not enter into the account because there is no guarantee that in case the city of Belgrade does not serve (which will not happen) the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the loan can turn to the Republic of Serbia's budget and ask to be serviced from the source. Still, speakers are right today. I think it's a good thing there's a debate in our public about what our external debt is, what our debt is in our economy. I believe that one number of countries got into these problems because there was not enough public debate. I see it as one of the most important things that our country in decades, not in the next two or three years, but in the decades that come it leads its own public finances and our own economic policy in a way that doesn't fall into any debt crisis. It is one of any government's desirable, unforgivable goals. I'll add something else, which the speakers didn't talk about, which is a private debt. You spoke, Mr. Radulovich. Although there is no guarantee of the state, neither the National Bank nor Belgrade, nor local self-government, the development of private debt can be something that can leave the leading economic policy holders, including parliament, indifferent. Why? Because when something becomes a social problem, it becomes a state problem. In certain countries because of the poor regulation that we do not have, a number of people have entered the personal level, without any guarantee, into a serious debt problem. On the other hand, there are countries where over-indebted companies have been released without any state guarantee. What are we saying today? We find that these are private companies with private debts, but with a large number of employees, with a great impact on the economy. Thus, these countries cannot say – well, let them do as they wish. No, we have to look at the debt. What is strongest and central is Serbia's sovereign external debt. There is also a sovereign internal debt of Serbia, not to forget; there is also our service of old foreign savings, and it has no debt, it is an internal debt, it is sovereign; there is a long local self-government; there is a debt of public enterprises, when it is no longer guaranteed; there is a private debt. We have to keep the whole picture in mind and always ensure, our country, that no segment gets into debt crisis. There is no such risk today, but respected MPs are absolutely right – this and any future government must closely monitor this development, so that we never switch to future generations what we are not able to solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40767	Thank you. What is the basis for the announcement, Mr. Radulovich?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40768	The basis of my reporting is the answer to my exposure based on this foreign debt, because I was talking about external debt, so that at least I could argue with what it is and protect the dignity of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40769	No, we can't have a dialogue, we have to respect the Rules of Procedure. You're protecting Parliament's dignity. Please, you don't have a word. Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40770	It is indeed a topic to protect the dignity of this home and sovereignty of the state of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Djelic, up until a few months ago, the National Assembly was a black hole for you, and now you have a nice debate in the black hole, when you caught on your favorite subject, to theoretically consider what is debt and what is not debt. Well, for the sake of the public, let's just say what it's all about. The state is in charge. Perspective weak. In 2008, the U.S. Tadic said in an election campaign he would hire 200,000 new workers. Meanwhile, he fired 250,000. Not him, his accomplices. Then they say – 200,000 will be hired at the end of the term. Meanwhile, 500,000 will be fired. The number of companies ahead of bankruptcy is increasing by liquidation. No one wants to talk about internal debts. A third of the internal debts are the debts of companies and legal entities to the state on the basis of taxes and contributions. A third. Djelic escapes me, I have no luck with these ministers. I wanted to read you Jova's poem, but come on, what do I do? While you were in France, you didn't read John Jovanovic's songs from the political cycle, and since you're here, until you run away from me, to read to you: Through the centuries, through the nebula, through the nebula, the grandchild, the father to the son, the fighter to the warrior – where I am standing, you will go, which I couldn't, you will be able, where I am not, you will come, what I started, you will continue, Bozidar, we are still in debt, you repay. That's what Jovanovic Zmaj sang to Obrenovici with Svetozar Miletic. Same situation, same target, same distance. "Jututun Juhahaha" is the government of the Republic of Serbia, "juhahaha" the European Union. But don't waste my time, they run away. What am I supposed to do? I'm out of luck. You see, respected citizens, one of these agreements requires Serbia to receive a sixm-euro donation, a very significant one. The law on confirmation is the whitest of these here, to the point it's worked out through annexes and what's signed, and how it's signed and how justice is donated. They don't trust these guys here. The law and that responsibility were explained by Djelic, who during the two-year opposition operation was industrious and worked hard, he said, and received eleven-and-a-half million euros. We are considering an aid agreement, a six-million-euro gift. Look, eleven and a half million is a lot more than six million. We don't even know how, under which bed, Mr. Djelic was so successful. I knew he'd get away. Here, he's gone, he won't sit. You see what an absurdity, there's talk of possibilities, of our responsibilities and of our perspective. Aman, guys, it's just a story. Twenty-year deadlines, interest-free, high waiting periods with payments. Where's all this money coming from, people? Let me remind you, on September 24, 2000, you were talking about six and a half billion marks waiting at the border, just to make these Slavics disappear from power, with Milosevic at the helm. They can't get that money. Then they start with these assignments. Well, they sell a lot of men. In all possible combinations you have entered, by system – come on, grab the money. And where did they end up with that money? Where are your loans? The nation will pay. Where did all this money go? Is there a report? What's better than when the loans came? They're all banks from abroad. Under the Vienna Agreement, you guarantee them to take the profits out of our country. Last year, 450m euros were taken away. You still think it can be that in Serbia – you can't pay me as little as I can do. It's been a while, people. You know, some people see what's going on, so very often they potentiate some words, like "nationalization" and "confiscation". Is it possible that the mafia is so run by this country? Science in Serbia will flourish after this law on confirming this agreement, as Serbia will get a supercomputer. It's a message. There are probably priorities, there's probably a need, but who trusts you, people, in this borrowing of yours? Who believes? The gift is six million for Belgrade. What street? For the one where the crew should be paid. What are you doing? You're gonna show that you spent six million on canvass to calm down these guys who are crying over cut sheets. You're able to do anything, absolutely anything. Do you remember how last year, or before last, Djelic yelled in this hall – come on, come on, Europe in 15 minutes. I told you, I'd like to buy you two minutes to get to that Europe as soon as possible. Not at all. There's nothing. Forget about that "juhahahahaha", none of it "juhahahaha" anything. Promote the work here a little bit, so people work. You only promote financial transactions. You're promoting borrowing. You can see that your budget broke completely. Foreign reserve... Imagine, Djelic says - foreign reserves are not the debt of the Republic of Serbia. Whose is the National Bank of Serbia? It's not the private front of Jelasic, is it? Where do you keep your foreign reserve? Says Jelasic - eleven billion. Probably 90% of these foreign reserves are in three countries: the United States, Great Britain and Germany. Why? To ensure stability, apparently, of our dinar. It's a very strong stability of the dinars. How come you don't provide the stability of the dinars with more work, more goods, more services, more employment? The beautiful president of Argentina said on TV last night – gentlemen of the Greeks, do not trust the IMF; who gets caught by the IMF can no longer stand. You're taking us here for three months. Big negotiations. Now the main issue is whether to raise salaries in public enterprises. Now you're going to make it possible for the superhumans to increase. They weren't even frozen, we all know that because they were selectively divided. But it takes great fuss to rise, great expectations. Here, and with hope, something is wrong, not only with Hope Kolundji, but hope goes away in Serbia at all, because it's all going around in a circle. How many people are gonna put up with this? These bill proposals, perhaps some of these agreements are necessary, are probably some means needed to patch up some holes, because Serbia is one big wheel that has a thousand and something flashes, so any minute it can crack somewhere else, so let's just put some more stains on it. That's the kind of Serbia you've made. A sovereign debt. Where's his sovereign Serbia? You're talking about statistical regions. Now you're not hiding, you're saying it's political regions, and here you swore it was just statistics. Statistics, our Dick. Well, people just can't read what it says in statistics, what employment data, schooling, age age, health status, etc. etc. I hate reading that data. Why? Well, every citizen feels it on his skin. We're the poorest, and we're paying for the most expensive fuel. A billion and three hundred fifty million washed the mob through... What did she wash through? Well, it's not through the washing machine, it's through the institutions of the state. What about the country? The state is silent, fighting a media war. He can't enter his structures. The ministers used to be arrested here, you know, Mihajlović, Vlaikov, what was it like? Here? Today? No way. No way, that's all on the feeds, on the parcels. We keep the media, uh-huh, a pretty story, it'll pass. You see how it is in agriculture, you see how it is in all other areas. Going out, you can't go out with organized crime, believe me. No state has saved organized crime. You can't use organized crime to wash yourself to meet the needs of the Republic of Serbia, and you send such messages. You send messages like that. Big investments. Where are those big investments? I'm not supposed to vote for any law on any of this. Not because it's justified or not justified, but who can give you money in your hands, people? Who can give you money in your hands? You become immediately experts, overnight. I want you to start with some stories right away. To remind you, it was the one with the sugar, the allowed import, export and – the affair immediately; the road, and the garbage. Only we and the Italians have the garbage mob. Is there a story closed? It's not. The Constitutional Court has not yet been formed. These tips haven't been formed yet either. Neither has the Securities Commission been selected. The resignation governor turns out to be the first victim of organised crime in Serbia. There's no answer. The tycoons are bright and they're dressy. They're also able to stop law enforcement until they sell apartments. Everyone knows that in Serbia. You know who owns what media, why the media is pushing this... The mobsters and tycoons don't care who's in power, who's in opposition, they need everyone on the payroll of mobsters, as is happening in these local elections. Some say after the election, what I'm interested in is power in some Arab. What's the message to the citizens? What's the message to these kids coming here to the gallery to listen and watch us? They ran away from class, so we applaud them here. Anything's possible with you, because this only ends up with that icon on the quad and in the written media, and we move on, we push on. Where? The European Union. Guys, there's nothing from that European Union. We can't do it without foreign loans, as Mladjan Dinkic said. And this Prime Minister of yours says - we're statistically out of the crisis. When he said so, let him go to Nis, and let him appear on the street, and let him say, "Dear Nisli, we are out of crisis." They're gonna eat it, so you know. Who's he talking to? Who else believes that? That's not how you run the country. That's why you don't have the support. I'm telling you, there may be some good suggestions here, but you've lost your trust. No one must give that authority to this government and to some ministers from this government. It can't be done. Why can't you? Because what's written won't be anything. Imagine, six-million-dollar help, and he's a little eleven-and-a-half, maybe he's up now! When he took eleven-and-a-half as an opposition, how much did he take now that he came to power? You can't talk. There are probably 150 issues of public interest that have been updated here in the Assembly and the government has asked for an answer, but there is no answer. Red carpet, security, guard, music, big flags, little flags... There's no "after Tito Tito," people. Remember, it's gotta be done. You don't promote work, you punish work in this country. Whoever works in this country, you punish him, you take his taxes, you take his contributions, you bring him to bankruptcy, and then you open the budget, and you say we will selectively follow the economy. Reduce the percentage of taxes, and you'll help everyone linearly. No, you're not gonna do that, because then you don't have a chance to exercise control. We will not vote for these laws because we do not see what would be good for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40771	I didn't want to warn you about the intonation you had. I'm experiencing it's part of your personality. Mr. Dejan Mirovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40772	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed agenda must be monitored in a broader context, especially this IPA grant agreement. Unfortunately, both the Government and the Deputy Prime Minister are trying to give us something that is not realistic, that it is a kind of help or donation that can be viewed outside of all co-operation with the European Union, with the European Investment Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The proof of what I'm saying is a member of the 16th grant agreement where it is literally said that if the Republic of Serbia and Belgrade do not carry out any obligation regarding any credit or financial instrument provided by the European Investment Bank or where it is a trustee of the European Union, the contract will be terminated. So this is not about, it should be said openly, about some kind of donation and some kind of goodwill, but it's about a conditionally connected contract, which is a kind of pressure, and later we'll prove that it's a kind of financing of pro-brisl propaganda in the Republic of Serbia. This so-called contract. IPA fund donations must also be observed within the so-called the historic Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, in Article 117, so-called EU assistance, including this IPA donation, is conditional on co-operation with the IMF. As our citizens know, this historic SAA with the EU has led to the government's fall, it has led to an attempt at a coup in the largest opposition party. If we went by that logic, we could realize that the political, economic and every other scene here in Serbia is divided into two parts - the parties and associations that are against the IMF programme, and the authorities and quasi-positional parties that are for the IMF, more specifically, to reduce expenditure on health, education, liquidating the remaining state stake in banks, freezing wages and pensions in inflation of 7%, which means their decline. It is, in fact, the essence of political and economic so-called. fighting at the moment. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister said this agenda is important for infrastructure. We fully agree with this, but we believe that both in economic, social and any sense much more important topics for citizens of Serbia are wages and pensions, employment is more important and industrial production is more important, which is related to this. In that sense, if the Deputy Prime Minister convinces us that employment in the Republic of Serbia has increased in the last ten years, and the NBS data and the Republic Bureau of Statistics show that, on the contrary, about 250,000 - 280,000 people have lost their jobs in the last five or seven years; if he convinces us that industrial production has reached the level of 1998 (when, you know, it was a terrorist rebellion in Kosovo and Metohija), and there is no indication that it will happen; and if he convinces us that the freezing of wages is not actually a fall in wages and pensions in inflation of 7%, we will believe that the infrastructure is most important to the citizens of Serbia. Also, the Deputy Prime Minister believes Serbia should not be in debt. In this context, he has the support of a large number of quasi-economic experts who are related to the IMF and the EU, and that is not incorrect, but we are asking the question: after ten years of unfeeling borrowing, when the Russian loan first came on the agenda after ten years, how is it possible that everyone now remembered that Serbia was in charge of the country? In this regard, it is very indicative, as part of that, I would say, anti-Russian propaganda, that our competent authorities failed within the deadline of December 2009 to produce the documentation needed for the loan. When you look at things in this regard, it is not true that the European Investment Bank gives the most favourable loans, because they are conditioned, as we have said, to this Article 117 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, by co-operation or by conditionality, or by destroying the social status of our citizens by the IMF. To express myself a little more freely, you have a good cop and a bad cop. A good cop is supposed to be the European Investment Bank, and the IMF is bad. And that's the point. That's the point. They work coordinated and work within their branches, with Western banks that give us and our citizens the highest interest not only in the region, but probably in Europe. Therefore, this claim that the most favourable loans of the European Investment Bank are simply not true. Not just because it's a variable interest and the eurobor is currently at a very low level, because that doesn't mean that in a few years the interest rates won't again reach a two-digit number, it's not off. Also, when it comes to science and education outside the context of the so-called "species". Co-operation with the EU would not be against Mr Djelic's statements. However, it is the World Bank, which acts in coordination with the European Investment Bank and the EU, in a shameful study, that I must say, which is called 'How to do less', that our teachers and teachers are being fired and that education expenditures are being reduced, that our primary, secondary and every other education is being destroyed! You see, you come to a situation that already exists in Romania and Hungary, which you don't say, that you have a wonderful infrastructure in the capitals, and you have a province, businesses and everything that makes one state and economy in a collapsed state, even in a sad state. In that sense, it is no secret that prominent Western economists, such as James Galbright, an economist from Harvard, believe, quote that "the IMF does not enjoy any reputation among economic intellectuals". This is not hidden even where these institutions are financed from, and it is no secret, it just needs to be impartial and without ideological acuity, such as the phrase that the EU has no alternative, to observe a world that is changing and, above all, economically. That was even understood by the governor of Romania's national bank (which has been in place since 1989), which openly refused to meet IMF requirements. Unlike the IMF's requirement to increase the reference interest rate, it reduced it from 6.5% to 6.2%. It's probably for our governor and our government something that's too brave. To try to hide it, we have phrases, so the outgoing governor said that defrosting wages and pensions will lead to an increase in living standards, which is simply amazing and insulting common sense. Also, the vice president said only two sentences about this IPA donation. I don't think that's right. He should have told us exactly what it says in that contract and should have said that Article 2 states that the project would last at least seven years. It should have been said that it was conditioned in Article 3 of the Treaty with the EU; if the EU gives those funds to the European Investment Bank, then there will be a donation, it is true. Article 3 states that these six million is the maximum amount. It's not true that it's six million, it's a maximum amount, it can be smaller. Article 5, respectively, states that the donation is conditional on a report on the progress of the European Investment Bank, and this was to be cited, and so on. additional information. What's that really about? Any lawyer would ask you what it is, it should have been taxed in a contract of what it is, otherwise under that phrase, you could have fooled anything. Article 6 states that Serbia will finance the European Investment Bank's inspection, which is scandalous. Article 7 states that the procurement of goods, services and works will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the European Investment Bank. I believe it will be similar to what happened with the works for the bridge at Beška – you know that the Bridge was built in 1973, and now the Alpina! That's amazing. Also, Article 11 openly states that the European Investment Bank can reduce donations. Finally, Article 13 sets out the final purpose of this Treaty, which is the propaganda purpose – the Republic of Serbia and Belgrade are obliged to include all their promotional activities within the framework of the European Investment Bank's project segment and to include the EU logo. So it's funding EU propaganda. It's also hiding the fact that it's essentially connected to the IMF and to all those who are destroying our economy. I will conclude with this, the main fact does not exist in this contract, nor in the annexes of the contract, does not exist in the form of the initial report, nor in the basic part of the contract, which is that all these texts do not indicate what amount of donations will go to the cost of consulting services and who these consultants are. Practice shows that they are EU consultants, practice shows that donations largely go towards EU consultants and that they pay their bureaucrats and experts, themselves in fact. It happens, it's a practice, and it doesn't need to be hidden behind phrases about some kind of paradise waiting for us in the European Union, which is essentially one project that is useful only for Western European countries, and for Eastern Europe it certainly isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40773	Thank you. Mrs. Marina Ragush is not here. Mr. Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40774	Ladies and gentlemen, my predecessors were mostly talking about the economy, and I'm going to talk politics. I will be led by an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the navigation of river routes and the maintenance of these roads. This has been since 1995 who knows which law on the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. In itself, there's nothing wrong with it, it's always good when inter-human and inter-state conflicts end with agreements and reconciliation. The dispute is that these agreements we are discussing are related to secondary, often second-rate and irrelevant issues for the position and standard of Serbian citizens and the position and standards of Croatian citizens, especially for the position of Serbian people in Croatia. Citizens are interested in when the most important issue of Serbian-Croatian relations will be found on the agenda of the government of the Republic of Serbia and this home, which is the return of the Serbian people to Croatia. I remind you that in order to create an ethnically pure Croatian government in Zagreb since 1991 (and it all started on 1 May) more than half a million Serbs have been expelled from Croatia today. To date, 15 years after the war, today on May 18th, tomorrow 19th, Croatia has returned between 40,000 and 50,000 exiled Krajisniks. No less scandalous than that negligible figure is the fact that the Serbian Parliament has not yet discussed the problem. The question arises why, in addition to such idyllic relations between the government in Zagreb and the government in Belgrade, Serbs do not return to Croatia? They don't come back because they don't have much to go back to. If they lived in cities, they were kidnapped by apartments. That's more than 50,000. If they lived on rural property, their properties are mostly destroyed, they're gone. Those who have a place to return do not return because they live in fear that when they return to Croatia they will be arrested and convicted of fabricated war crimes. I remind you of one little information that is used when it comes to Serbian-Croatian relations, that since 1995 the Croatian state has launched 75,000 investigations against the Krajisnik Serbs. The investigation covered all Serbs who by 1995 and the action "Storm" were full-year, obtained legal law or legal obligation to be military bonds. None of those 75,000 people know when his case will be activated, when charges will be brought against him, and when there will be an mounted trial. Practically, it does not go on average for a month without one of the Serb returnees in Croatia planning to be charged and not to be prosecuted. Yesterday, a meeting took place in Zagreb between the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia and the minister of justice of the Republic of Croatia, I think it is Mr Ivo Šimonovic. By the already established tradition of being on the scene of this so-called. The democratic government, the meeting was very warm and fruitful. They agreed, among other things, to hand over the persons charged with crimes of crime and corruption, and to detain, means to imprison those convicted in another country of imprisonment. When it comes to handing over criminals and dealing with crime, I have already talked here about the investigation being conducted and the trial that is under way in connection with the murder of the owner of the "National" Ivo Pukanic. This is, in any case, a significant issue, a matter that needs to be addressed and which should be significantly represented in relations between Belgrade and Zagreb, but I think there are far more important issues that the government in Belgrade should put on the agenda. I'll only mention two. For example, you have the case of the Croatian soldier Michael Hrastov. The man admitted at trial, and it was unquestionably found that 13 soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army massacred on the Koran bridge in 1991. He's been awarded a release sentence. The second case is the case of Mira Bajramovic. Bajramovic was a member of the special units of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, by the evils of the famous units commanded by Tomislav Mercep. The unit committed a terrible massacre against Serbs in the Paki plain and in the Marina village. Now Miro Bajramovic at the trial and before the trial declares that he killed more than 70 people by hand, and that the unit in which he killed at least three hundred people. Miro Bajramovic was awarded the release of the verdict. I ask the question how is possible co-operation between the two states, between the two judiciarys, between the justice of the Republic of Serbia, the judiciary of a state which is a state of Serb people and the judiciary of a criminal state, means mass criminals against Serb people, rewarding the freeing verdicts? As for the detention of persons sentenced to prison in another country, I think this point of the agreement is practically inadequate because there is no place in Serbian prisons. You know that our prisons are overbooked, and several hundred Krajisniks are in absentia, without trial, in Croatia sentenced to several years in prison from two, three to twenty years in prison. There is practically no place in Serbian prisons where these people could be shut down. There's one particular case I've talked about many times. Yesterday I met with the main hero, to say the case, it is Željko Knezevic from Knin; the man lives in the Great Plana, he asked me to ask a question to the Serbian government, since he is severely ill, he has a difficult form of hernia discus in the back of his spine – whether he is preparing for surgery or preparing for prison. In absentia, he was sentenced from the Croatian judiciary to 20 years in prison for, according to the reasoning, in 1991 in the Knin prison, beating up a Croatian prisoner as a military officer, which is why this unfortunate one has succumbed. The problem is that Željko Knezevic, I repeat for the third or fourth time, never in his life, which is easy to prove, has not entered the Knin prison, has never been a police officer of Republika Srpska's military police in his life. This is one of the questions that needs to be resolved. In any case, I think the governments of Croatia and Serbia should address these and many other more important issues before agreeing to establish a free navigation of the Danube. I will remind you, while we are already talking about judicial proceedings, because I think this is the most important issue burdened by today's Serbian-Croatian relations, on three more cases of scandalous rulings to Serbs from Croatia. Starica Ivanko Savic of Vukovar, 78, The County Court in Vukovar, chaired by Nikola Beshenski, sentenced him to four-and-a-half years in prison. Listen to what war crime is all about. She, according to the explanation, showed Croatians who defended the city and intimidated Croatian civilians from October 1991 to April 1992, while Croatians Marija Blaženić allegedly stole several pieces of bed linen, several pieces of dishes and some other less valuable items. You know what else is interesting about this case? This lady who was a crown witness, Marija Blaženić, could not remember whether at the time of the alleged crime, Vukovar was owned by JNA or controlled by an independent state of Croatia. The second case is the case of Danet Milovic from Grazac near Skradin. The man has been charged with, listen to this argument, during a military action by Milan Brajkovic, a member of the Ustasha troops, hit his butt twice. Imagine, twice. In doing so, he was called a Ustasha, especially seriously injured, even though at that time, as they proved, he was dressed in black uniform. Witness Milan Perak came to court to complain that this unfortunate man, Dane Milovic, had hit him in the back with his fist. Imagine which is absurd: Serbs in Croatia declare themselves war criminals and condemn themselves because they hit Ustasha soldiers twice in the buttocks, and Croatian soldiers Miro Bajramovic and Mihajlo Hrastov do not respond because they massacred more than 80 Serbs together! Fifteen years later, we deal with the issue of free sailing to the Danube. The last case I'm going to bring up is the case of Svetozar Karan from Korenica. The man was sentenced to seven years in prison with the following explanation, I will spend another minute: "It is obvious that the accused Karan has returned to Croatia because he realized that Croatia is in such a state that it will quickly and simply disappear from the stage of the world, because the Croats are dissatisfied with their status, and there may be such dissension between them that he will again ask someone to sit on their backs again, as it has been 900 years, and in the last 80 years, the indictees and his ancestors who enjoyed the coat of arms. Now all the criminals who committed genocide against the Croats are returning to Croatia, not only in this war, but together with the others have done so for five hundred years, since the arrival of Osmanli, when they came and destroyed the Croats together with the Ottomans, and since they have joined these parts of Yugoslavia they have practically destroyed them in certain areas. Now they want to take over where Osmania came, and along with the Ottomans until the defendant and his ancestors came. “ Ladies and gentlemen, agreements with Croatia yes, reconciliation with Croatia yes, but a priority must be made in the process of reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40775	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40776	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will talk about three legislative proposals. The first will be a law on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on free navigation and maintenance of travel routes. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been signing agreements with the Republic of Croatia for several years, which the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not implement. On several occasions, I spoke and representatives of the SRS spoke on several occasions about the failures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which allows the Croatian Republic authorities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to implement all those agreements, agreements, all that is signed between the two states. The first agreement I will point to, where the provision is enormously violated, is an agreement on normalisation of relations from 1996, which has been recognised by the two countries within the borders, unfortunately, by the avionic borders. In doing so, the Republic of Croatia, which by genocide and ethnic cleansing has cleaned the Serbian people from the area of Banija, like, Dalmatia, Kordun, Slavonia, Baranja, almost most of Croatia... On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia's authorities then recognised Croatia within those borders, although it was ethnically cleared. What did the Croatian government do two years ago? Regardless of her acceptance of Serbia within the integrated borders with Kosovo and Metohija, she unilaterally acknowledged the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. What did the government in the Republic of Serbia do? She declared the person non grataammbassadores, diplomatic representatives of Montenegro and Macedonia, and she did not do the same with Croatia, regardless of what Croatia did the same thing that Macedonia and Montenegro did. Under the provisions of the agreement, the government in the Republic of Serbia was tasked with declaring the ambassador of the Republic of Croatia a person non grat by diplomatic means. Why? Because, contrary to the provisions of the Agreement on the Normalisation of Relations, which provides for respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, another state has put that sovereignty and territorial integrity at risk. On the other hand, Croatia does not respect a social agreement that defines social security relations, a conflict agreement, a state property issue, a state border issue. Are relations between the two countries resolved as far as borders are concerned? No, I don't. When relations are resolved in determining state borders, that is the question. Serbian diplomacy and Serbian authorities must insist on resolving the state border relationship. What about state property? The Republic of Serbia and business entities of the Republic of Serbia have assets in the Republic of Croatia ranging from seven hundred to eight hundred million euros. What is the property of the Republic of Croatia? Double the size. What makes the diplomacy of the Republic of Serbia to resolve the issue of property? These are provisions of the Agreement on Sucession. Furthermore, what does the government of the Republic of Serbia do to help Serbs in a physical, safe return to their hearths? There are between 350,000 and 450,000 Serbs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who have been expelled from their hearths and ended up in the Republic of Serbia with genocide. What about their property? What about their property rights? Does the current government make the shifts in terms of ensuring their physical return there and the return of their assets and their property rights? Don't do anything. We have a free navigation agreement ahead of us. You can't talk about free navigation, you can't talk about maintenance until we know whose limit it is. Where are the borders of this country? Where are the borders of the Croatian state? All of this is zero, without adequate moves that must be made by the current authority in determining priorities. The country's priority towards Croatia is to regulate the property of Serbs who have been expelled from Croatia and ensure their return there, regulate the issue of state property of the Republic of Serbia that is in Croatia. It has to be resolved as soon as possible. What does the current government do to resolve this issue? Almost nothing. It enters into new agreements, which the Croats are defecting to avoid. The next deal I want to talk about is an agreement with the EFTA association. From the reasoning of this law, we see that the state of Serbia under this agreement will benefit economically from this ratification. However, the economic indicators you cited in the explanation talk about a huge deficit in external trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA member states, and it is said that in 2008, the total exports amounted to 77,000,000 euros and total imports of 137,000,000 euros. Unfortunately, both in 2009 and 2010, these economic trends are also very bad. When I talk about this agreement, I have to point out through certain economic, financial, fiscal indicators of certain problems that the Republic of Serbia has in foreign trade. Here is one economic-financial indicator: the share of exports to GDP in 1989 was 51%, in 1998 47%, in 2001 41%, in 20009 only 18%. Rapid decline in the share of exports to GDP. What are the state authorities doing? What does the current government do? What does the Treasury do? What does the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development do to stop these negative flows? What counterpart Krasic said, borrowing, to settle everything we lack. Here's another indicator: exports were about nine billion dollars in 2009. How much exports were in Bulgaria, which corresponds to the number of inhabitants and economic development to us? It was 16 billion. In Croatia 37 billion, in Slovakia 45 billion, in the Czech Republic 106 billion. These are about countries with the same economic potential, the number of people. Almost ten or more times they've exported more than we have. Is that what the government's worried about? Don't worry. Does it take economic and fiscal measures to reduce imports and increase exports? Don't do anything. Here is another indicator, which may best speak of export problems: Serbia exports $1,100 per capita, Macedonia 1,500...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40777	Mr. Buha, I'm sorry, just a moment to interrupt. I would like to inform you that the sessions are attended by Belgrade University students: Olivera Stojkovic, Maja Kovacevic, Jelena Jerkovic, Marko Stricevic, Lidija Milosavljevic, Uros Uroševic and Aleksandra Studen. Let's say hello. Keep going, we'll consider this interruption of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40778	How much time does the SRS have left? (President: Your parliamentary group has 17 minutes left. ) Here is another indicator that perhaps speaks most fully of problems in the area of exports. How much does Serbia export per capita? It exports $1,100, and Macedonia 1,500, Bulgaria 2,100, Croatia 2,300 and twice as much as us, the Czech Republic 10,000, Slovenia 11,500. This data has got to worry. If we're at the start of exporting, if we're in the middle and about imports per capita, then that has to worry. Unfortunately, the current government does nothing to improve these parameters, negative, catastrophic parameters. The third law on which I will say a few sentences very briefly is the ratification of the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Maybe just at first sight this looks positive. We're going to get the money that we're going to invest in science, in technological development, and we're going to have some effects, but when we look at the essence of the content of this contract, if it's about one borrowing of a state that doesn't have all the analysis behind it, it doesn't have all the economic financial indicators that are going to result from this investment, then we know it's going to be thrown away. Why waste money? Because we see in the explanation what purpose it will be spent on. Nor was this congregation worthy of certain indicators that would clearly show the purpose and extent to be set aside, nor do we have a specific design for all of this. We know that this government is in debt without any reason, and behind that there are no economic calculations and calculations of what priorities are, why not invest in a particular area that will pay us back in three to five years or another area that will bring it back in seven or eight years or not. Among other things, due to time, this credit line will invest financial resources in a human resource programme aimed at attracting about 1,400 Serbian scientists to work abroad. What economic and financial measure are you going to attract 1400 scientists from abroad? What are those measures? Why didn't you expose them? Scientists abroad, you know, receive from five to fifty-five and five hundred fifty-five thousand euros. How are we going to attract these scientists to work in our institutes? This is a dead letter on paper. You won't attract 14, not 1400. It's time before you, but it's before us. You'll have to make an account in three months, six months, etc., give the dynamics of returning those personnel, and then we'll see, take the bill and then say, you were right. Unfortunately, trains pass, financial resources are being disbursed, and the effect of these investments, especially on short-term credit lines, shows that this country and this people will not be able to repay them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40779	National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. The remaining time is thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the bill's proposal to confirm the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States, I would like to point out some illogicalities, which, above all, arise in strengthening protectionism as a consequence of the global economic crisis. On the other hand, what I will pay more attention to is the attitude of the economic part of the government, i.e. the Republic government towards the Serbian economy, especially given that a certain time ago, when a free trade contract was signed, it highlighted it as another important step towards better positioning Serbia in the free trade regime. It was then considered a great opportunity, not only for Serbian producers and exporters, but also a chance to attract new foreign investments. Even specific data are mentioned as to how much the trade with the EFTA region is and how much trade will increase after the signing. It was also believed that Serbia's accession to the World Trade Organisation would allow its economy many benefits, and the ultimate goal of all this was, as the government's representatives assured us, to increase Serbia's security for foreign investment above all. However, what we are discussing here today, that is, one such bill and that promise that Serbian businessmen received from the representatives of the government, under which these domestic firms in the tenders were practically privileged until about 15-20 days ago, more precisely by 1 May, when the liberalisation of the public procurement market occurred, obviously does not go with each other. So government officials have in some way promised priority to domestic procurement companies and have even translated such promises into actions by forming a variety of mixed working bodies. It is clear that in practice it will not be able to be realised for a simple reason, which seems to be forgotten that Serbia signed an agreement in Bucharest that established a free trade zone in the region as early as December 2008. Under the letter of the deal, Serbia had to liberalise the public procurement market by 1 May of this year at the latest. What is stated in the agreement is clearly contrary to what the government has promised domestic companies. Namely, those who had the opportunity to get acquainted with this could have noticed that, in accordance with the CEFTA agreement, the state of Serbia in the tenders would have to provide the same conditions for all regional firms. For domestic businesses, this practically means that the same rules of the game will apply to their colleagues from Croatia, BiH, Moldova, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia. In Article 35. Annex 1 states that since the date of entry into force of the Agreement, the Parties will ensure that procurement is carried out in a transparent and reasonable manner, that they will ensure equal treatment for all tenderers of the other parties and that they will be based on the principles of open and effective competition. The question is how the government thinks it's fulfilling the promise it made to the businessmen without breaking the CEFTA agreement, because this means that domestic firms in the privileged position in the tenders could count until the beginning of this month. The same article adds that each party will ensure a progressive and efficient opening of the public procurement market by 1 May 2010 at the latest, so that, in accordance with all relevant laws, regulations, procedures and practices, goods, services and service providers of other parties, they have provided treatment which is not less favourable than those of domestic products, services and manufacturers. Therefore, according to the current Law on Public Procurement in Serbia for domestic companies that had that 20 per cent advantage in price compared to all foreign businesses, the rule stopped in early May, because it will have absolutely the same conditions as all CEFTA companies. It is interesting that just as a consequence of the global economic crisis, there is a growing increase in protectionism in countries that are trying to protect their markets, encourage domestic production and preserve jobs. Recently, a meeting was held in Rome attended by finance ministers of seven of the world's most developed countries, which expressed concern about the growth of protectionism. The conclusion is that the government's efforts must not lead to the asphyxiation of free competition and trade, the openness of national markets, which is increasingly at risk. Even the World Trade Organisation has concluded that the phenomenon of protectionism in the world is on the rise and that it is necessary to avoid measures to block imports. There are also concrete examples of how certain countries... This mentions France, which, for example, gave privileged loans to car manufacturers, but provided they buy parts in France and that factories do not move abroad. Russia, China, Indonesia and Egypt have raised customs duties. The public's greatest attention prompted US President Barack Obama's call – let's buy America. Although the motto was later tempered, protectionism in the United States has not been stopped, customs on various Chinese goods have been increased. The regional path to liberalisation, as they like to call this regional pact on free trade in CEFTA, in which the country's current composition, such as Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, etc., is the best way to talk about Serbia and Croatia, as an exporter of food, is recording a deficit in exchange with Croatia of as much as $117.3m. The problem is for the Serbian side and that Croatian customs officers are asking for the accompanying documentation to be exclusively on the Latin market, as well as for the correct introduction into the manufacturer's specification of waste material norms, which actually affects the rule of protection of business secrets. There are many such examples, but we live at a time when the president's plan to leave the crisis is being realized by 2020 and when we trust certain ministers that the crisis is behind us, and in principle it all comes down to it – whoever survives, will talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40781	Thank you. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic, six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40782	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a moment I will only return to the previous session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the previous session had a agenda with 94 points, and there were no draft laws on the confirmation of a borrowing contract. We were just thinking that maybe the government decided to stop their bad borrowing practice, when at this session, it's back to normal. When the Financial Treaty (Research and Development in the Public Sector) is confirmed at the end of this session between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank will create an opportunity for Serbia to be in charge of 200m euros. The payment deadline is twenty years, and the period starts six years. It is interesting that the longer period of beginnings is treated as a convenience and as an extraordinary condition, as we had the opportunity to hear from Mr Djelic today. But since it started taking on a number of loans, when the time comes to pay off those who need to pay them back won't be easy at all. It is undeniable that the project of revitalisation, research and development in the public sector should be implemented. We are all aware of the conditions for teaching in Serbia. However, the position of the SRS is that the government has really exaggerated the loans. When we talk about such topics, we can never agree with the finance minister, who says that Serbia is not in charge enough, and we have heard today from Mr Djelic that his position is as well, while we opposition representatives, on the other hand, warn that this kind of credit is a danger, especially at the time when he will arrive for payment. It is true that Serbia's public debt is below the European average and currently stands at about 32% of GDP. However, the rate of debt growth is that it raises concerns, especially when we know that before the crisis began, it was about 26% of GDP. When we talk about this, it is important to point out that part of the budget is missing is constantly covered by loans. Economic experts warn that if we continue to be in debt at this pace, there is a risk that in a few years we are only giving more interest back than for some important sectors, such as education or defence. Otherwise, we now spend about 1% of GDP each year on interest payments. As for Serbia's overall debt, the situation is not encouraging. Many companies are over-indebted, their assets have already been mortgaged and have nothing to guarantee to re-indemnify. Nearly 97% of Serbian companies have nothing to offer as collateral to obtain credit, and the question is whether they will be able to meet the obligations they already have on the loans they have taken. As far as the population is concerned, those who are in charge, i.e. those who have some income, to a large extent do it; 75% of them use credit cards and the allowed minus. The reason that the population of Serbia is no longer in charge is great unemployment and that citizens have no income whatsoever. As for the project itself, which will be financed in part from the loan we are talking about today, this project consists of ten sub-projects. I note that the SRS understands the need for much greater investment in the field of science, because in this area, as well as many others, the situation is extremely bad. I repeat that we are opposed to excessive debt for all projects, because for years back what Serbia has is not used properly. When I say this, I mean a disastrously implemented privatisation process, in which companies that have successfully been sold into depravity and in this way Serbia has lost a lot of resources that could have been significant and invested in everything that credits are being taken for today, and to overcome. Besides this, we've had our chance to get acquainted with the accidental budget spending by the executives, which is what the state auditor introduced us to. Otherwise, one of the projects mentioned is a human resources programme aimed at attracting about 1400 Serbian scientists to work abroad. It is a constant phenomenon that the most talented scientists leave Serbia. Unquestionably, the return of such people is necessary, and it is absolutely necessary for Serbia, because a learned man always carries wealth within him. Another question is very important: whose responsibility in Serbia is that the best students, whose parents are not rich, have only 400 dinars a day at their disposal? Serbia with such conditions is certainly not a state where they see their future, unfortunately. As for the return of 1400 Serbian scientists from abroad, expectations are for those who have already proven themselves outside and who can attract various private and European funds for their research. According to Mr Djelic, the scientific community has defined a list of 50 such people and have already started negotiations with them. Now a legitimate question is being raised – is it realistic to expect that 1,400 scientists will actually return to Serbia, or will that number be much smaller and how much, on the other hand, will those best students go? Except for the wealth they carry inside, they have no choice but to offer that way in order to be able to express their knowledge. Does this mean that the opportunity will be given to those who, in addition to their knowledge, have something else to offer, and that is the money they have earned abroad and the reputation they have also gained outside Serbia? (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40783	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40784	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for this discussion. Today, the debate is being held, I think, on seven very positive laws, which, unequivocally, each in its own domain, will ensure that our country is making progress: three laws concerning knowledge, intellectual property, three laws concerning the construction of infrastructure in our country and one linking us with the most successful countries in Europe and the world. Because of that, I just want to say, we have a huge challenge ahead of us, which means we have to mobilize. When we talk about our talents, as we discussed a few weeks ago when we debated the parent laws here from scientific research in Serbia, we also mentioned what would be the great war in the years to come, because the strongest countries will not reduce, on the contrary, will increase their efforts to attract the most talented people from the world, wherever they are today. Therefore, this agreement with the European Investment Bank, I can tell you, in direct contact with our scientists... I would like to invite all the MPs to come to the Sava Center on 23 May at 11:00 p.m., to present a new call for funding projects in the domain of science and technology. We'll also have, hopefully, after a successful debate here, the possibility for those who hold that part of our future in our hands to announce the fact that the National Assembly voted in favour of this agreement. We need to understand that the wealth of a particular nation in the 21st century will be at its capacity to best direct the knowledge of those who know more than others. When we say more than others, it's not only in a given society, but also in comparison with other nations, that we can produce and place in the world something that someone else doesn't have, because if we place only what nature has given us, out of ordinary agricultural products, partly metals, it's going to be one life that has very narrow frames. If we succeed in mobilizing the talents of our scientists, engineers, highly educated workers, because we don't need to define innovation and knowledge just because someone has a certain academic title, it would be a big mistake... Of course, we shouldn't define it in our case with those who are at this point within our borders, but are completely open with those who went out for various reasons. That is why I urge you to accept these laws on innovation, science, intellectual property, as well as those laws relating to security, very quickly, six million euros in donations, free EU funds, to repair everything in Belgrade from Vuk's monument to Zvezdavac and Karajordjeva Street, so that we can finally work with the Republic of Croatia to improve navigation on the Danube, especially in that part of the Apatino area, which is very problematic in the good part of the year; to be able to be able to meet the chair of Serbia when we meet our colleagues from Southeast Europe to discuss mechanisms for dealing with emergency situations; finally, to be able to offer investors from Switzerland, Norway and other EFTA countries to find legal certainty on the part of a successful country. These are, I think, suggestions that any political group could support. I hope that such a message will be sent to everyone, especially those who are watching us today, which are our citizens who are either finishing a doctorate or they will see this debate on satellite somewhere in Toronto, America or Stockholm, and they will see here some reflection of our relationship and our priorities. The agreement with the European Investment Bank in that domain has the potential to be a milestone, a historic moment when Serbia has decidently decided never to be known for exporting smart people again, but to keep those smart people at home and to export smart products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since no word has been reported on the lists of MPs, nor has anyone who has not exercised its right under Article 93 come forward, I am concluding a joint single search. I'm setting a break by 3:00. Thank you, Mr. Minister, to you and your associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Before we move to the first item of the agenda and debate in particular, the notice of the invited to the session. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, in addition to the representatives of Proposor Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, has called for the meeting to be attended by Snezana Lakicevic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Radmila Bukumirović-Katić, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Rajka Vukomanovic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and Snezana Bogdanović, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE PROPOSATION OF THE PROFESSION OF THE PROFESSION OF THE PROFESSORS: Milovan Radovanović, Aleksandra Janković, Nemanja Sarović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antimović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladović, Boris Pokurić, Gojko Radić, Mić Kašmarton, Milan Kljević, Vuščan Košimović, Dragan Žaljanović, Draga Žaljan Žalić, Dragažarović, Dragažić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljan Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Mr. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic and the joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic and National MP Nemanja Sarović submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40787	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 1(2), believing that position 2 should be deleted. What does it say and what made us think that? In Section 2, you write: “All the concepts used in this law in malehood mean the same concepts in the female race. “ It’s something that in the last two years in several laws that come from this ministry (and perhaps another) appears as something that is written in one member or another. I'll try to explain to you why we don't think that's necessary and why we feel that what you wrote in Article 1(2) should be deleted. First of all, it is perfectly normal and natural that if in one law it is written in one generation, it applies to another generation. It's just that it is and it's so normal. On the other hand, there's something else I want to tell you. In addition to the laws that come from your ministry and the ones that I mention, they come here to us in the Assembly and the laws of other ministries, so mostly they don't have this definition. Does this mean that these laws do not apply to both citizens and citizens of Serbia? Is it simply happening that only these laws in which such a provision is written apply to citizens and citizens, and those other ones where the male race only applies to citizens? Also, in addition to these laws passed in the term of the government, there are other laws used in the Republic of Serbia, where this does not stand. What about them? What's the problem if someone calls for what you wrote and doesn't exist in any other law? That's what makes sense now, legally, which is what I'm trying to tell you. So, I think it's funny that we now expect those laws where this doesn't stand to be complemented, or that they complement them. It's natural to refer to both citizens and citizens, and there's no need to write it in the law. I've seen in an explanation that you've given us that you're calling for international documents and international organisations that have distracted you, such as the International Labour Organization, that it doesn't stand, that you're fixing it. If you have arguments for something, then you should apply those arguments. I think these are logical arguments. On the other hand, the introduction of these strong words, which are mostly female, you call it, very often occurs in the media, political correctness. In fact, we can't talk about a politically correct language here, or that there's some other native sensitive language, as you're trying to explain it to us. It's just that right now there's been a big difference between natural language, like all spoken languages, and the artificial language that you're putting in here and trying to apply it in some normal life. Those words sound raving in a real and normal life. The other day, I was watching the report on "The Night of the Museum" and I saw "The Custodian". It just sounds kind of ghastly. In some everyday language, they really sound very ghastly. Why do they sound so ghastly? Because you are trying to apply natural language rules, or linguistic rules that refer exclusively to natural languages. Then the situation is that in Serbia we have some kind of rhogobat language that looks like that new Croatian language, which actually came from another motive, but it's just as rhogobatical as this one right here. What do I want to tell you about this? Of course, I don't belong to the purest, nor do I belong to the top language experts, I'm just talking about the fact that it really bothers me. Trouble, for example, to me as a woman, and probably some other women. Women don't feel much better about being treated in laws this way, by inserting hundreds and hundreds of new words that are mostly female. I think the political correctness and obligations of both these and any future government are that women offer much better conditions for living and working in this country. The ministry you represent here today is in charge of this area of work, so I think we should talk about it. Is it possible that a politically correct language implies that words and the same concepts in the female family are applied here, and that it is not politically correct that all young ladies who will be fired from various ministries are accidentally pregnant? That's what I consider demagogy. It's one thing to talk, it sounds nice, it sounds very nice, and in practice it has nothing to do with each other. That's political correctness for me. When there's a story about the volunteering law, I think I'll talk the same way because I think we need to open it up and talk about it. It cannot be owned by some NGOs or some ministers who think so. Simply, all of us in this congregation need to talk about what this country will look like. It is understood that we may be able to listen to language - speaking experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40788	The time spent since the authorized representative's time is three minutes and forty seconds. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40789	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has also submitted, on behalf of the SRS, a proposal to delete Article 2 of this law. I also tried in the principle debate to persuade the minister and his assistants to gain strength and political wisdom to accept such a proposal to erase this. I was expecting, I must say, that the explanation of why this amendment is not accepted will be far higher than what we got. I'll read you what's basic. They say: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution in Article 1(2) is in line with international standards. ” The international standard, for one thing, does not exist on this issue, meaning a clear accepted international standard. When you say "International" that must mean the entire international community, which is one concept that can be understood in different ways. Perhaps you can appeal to EU practice. When you say that, then I can say that you're right, because this is, I would say, one of the illogical things that comes from the EU. The European Union has one big problem, and it is not something that I have only noticed, even a large number of people and experts in the EU think they are making a huge mistake by trying to codify everything and everything, from how guilty bananas are to be considered bananas, but also how much certain expressions can be used. For example, the Secretary-General of the European Parliament has issued a specific instruction that practically prohibits the use of the word "ma'am" or "ma'am" because, my God, they are not politically correct, so no expression from which a person's marital status may be concluded must be used. It's something that's completely wrong. I would refer you to certain linguistic experts, for example, to Dr. Egon Fekete, who says that in certain cases it is good to use it for a name and female, for a particular noun and female, but that there are nonaments that have no form of female gender, such as "judgment", "academic", "writer" and "biologist". I've cited a number of examples before, so you can see for yourself how pointless what you're looking for is. Here neither Mr Meho Omerovic nor Mr Rasim Ljajic can be found in the role of the new Vuk Karadzic. You here, in your explanation, say that you believe that your obligation is to introduce a native sensitive language into laws, not prejudge the decisions and acts of official institutions such as SANU, which will scientificly and lexically determine what the standard and possibility of Serbian language is, given the change in society and the role of women and men. You can't say – we'll write the laws first, and then we'll let SANA make certain standards, because standards already exist. You have to work on existing standards. In the European Union itself, there is a fierce resistance to these things. I'll quote just a statement from a Scotsman from Scotland, Mr Stevenson, who specifically said about this instruction that "political correctness has fallen off", and that's exactly what you're trying to accomplish here - some kind of political correctness. I'm going to give you some examples that clearly show that it's crazy to do out of some professions and women's professions, because for example, a driver would become a female driver, a driver, a waxer. A fisherman would become a female fisherman, a fisherman. Welder - welder, welder. Hunter - hunter, hunter, etc. A writer, for example, would be a pussy in a female. I don't know if any of the ladies who are here on behalf of the Ministry would present themselves here "here, we are the cunts of this law", such as pride. Politically correct, European responsible. I mean, and I'm going to tell you one more time that gender equality can't be achieved by rape of language. What you do with this example and example from other laws is rape of the Serbian language. There's still a lot of problems. You are constantly introducing foreign expressions into Serbian. Representatives of the ruling parties and representatives of the ministry also spoke about some sort of mobbing. Mobing is a word that does not exist in Serbian, it is a foreign term. Moving is a word that doesn't stand anywhere in this law. You are obliged, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to guard the Serbian language and to find an adequate expression in Serbian at least for the words you use, for which such a term exists, and a large number. Then I'll show on one case through the volunteering law, you've introduced an expression that I'm sure you don't know exactly what it means yourself, and therefore the citizens of Serbia and those who are able to apply this law won't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40790	Four minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40791	counterpart Milica Vojic-Markovic mostly said everything I wanted to say. I don't know how I speak, though, whether as a psychologist, as a psychologist, as a psychologist. So everyone's going to choose what's right for his tongue to be gender-sensitive, I guess. What is in the government's explanation for not accepting amendments is that the amendment is not accepted because the solution in Article 1(2) is a solution. Proposal for a law in accordance with international standards. Why is it always a capital argument calling for international standards? Are there any domestic, Serbian standards based on Serbia's civilizational fluids, which has always been a European country, even a cradle of European civilizations? The real question is why is it always necessary for this rationalization to be in line with international standards? Of course, co-worker Milica Vojić-Markovic funnyly noted that this translation of the term, under the rationalization of the native sensitivity of language, is very similar to this Croatian new speech, so I will not say "cash", but "round-the-back pants". In addition, the whole story of having to be introduced and the terms of women are explained by the fact that we have adopted the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality. In this way, you are discriminating the law, so there are laws written in malehood, not gender-sensitive, which come from some other ministries, laws written in female, which your ministry insists on. There's again discrimination against the laws themselves. So the logical question for me is, if we want linguistic sensitivity, then why don't all the laws use the concepts of a female, and then refer to a male? That's another one of the possible questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40792	One minute was used by a time-authorized representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2, and on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, tabled an amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40793	On behalf of the Proposer, we accept the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40794	Thank you. I find that the proposer has accepted the amendment. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40795	The truth is, I would have to say that there are certain people's MPs here, but also the Serbian public, because this is not an amendment to the Committee, this is an amendment to the Ministry, this is an amendment to NGOs. There's Mr. Omerovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40796	National MP, I warn you not to disrespect the working bodies of the Assembly and not to deceive the public. The amendment covered by the search in particular has been submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and I ask you to keep in mind that in the structure of your presentation you do not insult the working bodies or members of the working bodies and that you maintain the reputation of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40797	Mrs. Comic, first of all, I'd like to ask you to stop the time in the future. The other thing, if you'd listened to me carefully and had patience, I don't know why you didn't have it, then you'd be more clear what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40798	People's MP, I warn you not to discuss instructions which, in accordance with Article 27, I am giving you so that you and I, too, would respect all the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Given the stenogram, you will see that the intervention in relation to your position is that, in the case of amendments to Article 2, the deception of the public and that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not submitted an amendment. Now I warn you to use your words carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40799	Mrs. Komic, as a lawyer, I use my words carefully and I know very well what I'm saying and I stand behind what I said. I attended... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40800	People's MP, I now warn you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, with grounds for giving a warning measure. This is the last warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40801	Mrs. Komic, I'd like to ask you, if you think I'm breaking something, to explain to me the way I'm breaking it. As I say one or two or three words, you say I broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40802	People's MP, I warned you. By looking at the stenogram, you will see that you have made a claim that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not submitted an amendment and that we deceive the public. It may not be a serious claim to you, it may not be a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly, it may be a promotion of freedom of speech to you, but in advocating order in the National Assembly and in the application of all the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I interrupted you and warned that you did not see the difference between freedom of speech and the demeaning of the working bodies of the Assembly. So, in order for neither you nor I to be in a situation to apply criminal measures, I ask you to give your presentations with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40803	Mrs. Comic, I really have no intention of discussing this with you in any way. Here, I will say, for the sake of truth, I attended the session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and of course Mr Meho Omerovic attended; if I make any mistake, I think he is the first one to respond and say it is not true. Mr. Meho Omerovic was at the Committee session I said this was a compromise. I can even quote if you want. I'll find that too, Mrs. Comic. So Mr Meho Omerovic said that a compromise was made with representatives of NGOs representing Miljenko Dereta. So, if you'd like, a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has been recorded...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40804	People's MP, if you insist on giving a warning measure, I am at your disposal. In order not to explain to you for the third time that you cannot, without the chairman's intervention, make a statement that the public is being deceived at the meeting of the National Assembly, because it is not misleading and the Committee has submitted an amendment, for the last time I ask you to give your explanation of the way in which the working body, i.e. the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, is summed up by preserving the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40805	Mrs. Komic, the first time I started talking, I said what you said, but if you followed closely, when you looked at the stenograms, the last three times I didn't say it. I'm just explaining the reasons...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40806	People's messenger, I give you your first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40807	Thank you, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40808	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40809	Of course, whatever the case, I will continue to explain this law and explain the reasons for which, in my opinion and the opinion of the SRS, this amendment should not be accepted. The amendment should not be accepted because Mr Meho Omerovic said it was a compromise with NGOs. I hope that Mrs. Elvira Kovac will come to the gym, too, and there's a lady from the DSS who attended this committee, and there are representatives of the Ministry, so they can confirm what was going on there. No one but Mr Meh Omerovic had the text of this amendment before the session, even members of the Committee objected and said they had not been consulted on this matter. It was later put to the vote and thus became an amendment to the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. When it arrived in the material, then still the members of the Committee (even from the ruling coalition) knew nothing about it. That's what the point is. This amendment cannot be accepted because it humiliates the National Assembly, because it is we who are to be servants of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and NGOs, who are not allowed to ask questions, who are due to wait three months for public debates to be delivered to some almost solution, and then representatives of the ruling coalition to raise their hands and vote for it. That's what matters, Mrs. Comic. So, I absolutely didn't insult anyone, I absolutely didn't say any false things, and I absolutely think, Mrs. Komic, that you were wrong to tell me this warning, but of course, it will judge history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40810	It was used for three minutes by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40811	I think the most important thing here is for us to get to a good law. We have tried to accept all amendments during the debate, regardless of who they come from and from, from the authorities or opposition, if they specify certain provisions of the text or that text in a qualitative sense improves. We had a similar amendment here, and this is Mrs Natasha Micic's amendment. We could not accept this amendment in the form in which it was submitted, because this list lists members of the Army, persons seeking a job, and it was not possible to accept such an amendment. That is why we accepted the amendment in agreement with the motion that this amendment be proposed by the Committee for formal legal procedure. We are prepared to accept such an amendment because we believe it contributes to improving the text of the law itself. In my view, it is much more important (and we have accepted some other amendments in a similar way) than whether this amendment has been proposed by the Committee or by any of the parliamentary groups. Finally, we accepted the largest number of amendments from your parliamentary group, if we are to look at the number of total amendments accepted, but I do not consider it relevant for this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40812	Before we continue our work, allow me, honourable MPs, to give you a notice about the guests at the National Assembly gallery. Today's part of the course of the session, starting from 15 hours, from the gallery of the large hall of the House of National Assembly is accompanied by a group of students and professors of the Building and Technical School in Belgrade, and students: Kristina Savić, Savka Negovovanovic, Branko Rakočević, Ognje Legerski, Lidija Feković, Sandra Dimitrijevic, Jovana Demir, Marko Radosavljević, Bozidar Milić, Milos Stiković, Boško Jovanovic, Milica Langović, Milica Langović, Jelena Simunović, Vladimir Kundulović, Boris Ljubic, Marija Jovanović, Nikola Knežev, Nikola Milić, Mladen Marković, Milic, Milica Nikosović, Prof. Silažanović, Miražanović, Ivana Šiljanažanović, Ivana Šilović, Ivana Šilović, Mira Šilić, Vladimira Šilić, Vladimiražilić, Vladimiražilić, Mr. Welcome to your house, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're continuing our work. The word has a national emissary of Jankovic Aleksandra.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40813	This will probably be the first, anthological time I've defended the authorities. So this is not an amendment to NGOs and the NGO sector. The minister somehow forgot to mention that this was my amendment. Right, Minister? Okay. Of course, and a colleague from the LDP. The idea of our amendment was to simply expand the circle of the benefits of the law and to protect as many people as possible from the possibility of abuse at work. Whether it's the idea of an NGO sector, it's completely irrelevant. What is true is that MPs have submitted amendments in this regard. Our amendments are not accepted precisely because of this provision on members of the military, but it is a fortunate circumstance that the Committee has in fact adopted in some way what is the essential objection to our amendments and that this is something that will benefit the citizens of Serbia. It's the only thing that really matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40814	A minute used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40815	I apologize to Mrs Jankovic, this was your amendment, as was Mrs Natasa Micic, and that amendment is in this changed form and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40816	Thank you. MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40817	I thank you, Madam Chairman, just one additional note for the truthfulness and notification of citizens who are watching us on direct TV. So, we had a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this morning. The session was held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and had a quorum. National MPs who do not belong to the ruling coalition also participated in the work of the Committee, which is very important, were also present at the Committee's work with the proposals for individual amendments, in particular by counterpart Sarovic, who reported on one of the previous amendments. It is legitimate that the MP can claim that one amendment is good or bad and that fellow Sarovic repeatedly pointed to it at the Committee's session. Of course the compromise is something that is the essence of politics, I think we'll agree there. I'm glad that distinguished colleague Aleksandra Jankovic, through her amendment and through her LDP amendment colleagues, actually said it was a fundamental remark, which was adopted. We heard from Mr. Minister, the government accepted one of those, as I called it, and you quoted me as a compromise version, which we as the parent board of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly have proposed, which most of the votes, in fact, unanimously, and accepted. What is the essence, of course, is that this amendment is divided into all the members of the Committee who attended the session. After the intervention of his colleague, Sarovic, although not a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, was literally presented within 30 seconds and was presented with the same amendments that he later adopted during the session. It's just that I don't want to de-compress, and I think we understand each other completely. I'm glad we're coming to the point of understanding on these issues. Of course, the differences in respect of the reputation and impact of the NGO sector on the work of parliamentary institutions will keep everyone to ourselves, you will think one thing, I will think the other, and I guess it is the essence of democracy, that we differ in our opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40818	Two minutes and fifteen seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40819	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like more for the public's sake to convey a position concerning the amendment of the Committee to this member we are talking about, or to Article 2. First of all, I'm a member of the Committee. I had a proposal, like all the board members, at the committee session. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure allow for the amendment between the principled debate and the debate in particular. The board took advantage of it. The moment the Committee adopted the amendment as its own, it was an amendment to the Committee, regardless of who he consulted, how, in which way, etc. I would like, by clarifying this, not to create the wrong play, to say more about the importance of this amendment, but also about the seriousness of the Committee's work and the resolution ministry. The law on preventing abuse at work is an important law. We found this last time in the principle debate and said that the most important thing is that the state sends a message and clearly says that it is forbidden to abuse at work and at the same time demonstrates the willingness to measure, and above all by creating a basis through the law, to engage in the fight against it. What do I see the seriousness of both the Committee and the Ministry, when this amendment, and not just this one, is it? Just to remind you, when it comes to this law, the government has accepted twelve amendments; the Labour Committee has submitted ten amendments, I expect the government to accept them, these are twenty-two amendments to one law. What's the seriousness, too? Only this amendment included four amendments, not two, in some way respecting each or a group of MPs who submitted them, and here, standing here in papers, these are: Natasa Micic, Kenan Hajdarevic, one; this is a group of MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party; this is partly Milice Vojić-Markovic, Donke Banovic and Nikola Lazic; this is also the amendment, we heard earlier, the honourable MPs, Aleksandra Jankovic. Four amendments were submitted to this member of the bill. I think both the Committee and the competent ministry have shown great seriousness, estimating first and foremost the efforts of those people who have submitted the amendment to make the law even better, more applicable, etc. This amendment, proposed by the Committee, simply picked up from all four amendments what is possible and proposed as one comprehensive, and he, as the honourable MP, Aleksandra Jankovic said, merely specified who all applies to, or extended what has already been regulated in that law. I was obliged to state this position and to say, simply to remind myself that there was a great seriousness, a great responsibility (I do not see anything ugly that the Committee consults the relevant ministry) in the context of the debate and after the debate on this law, by proposing a solution that would certainly fix the law, make it better and more applicable, of course. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40820	Five minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40821	Mr. Petronivic and Mr. Omerovic, you say the Committee is doing extremely seriously, and I agree, but I think citizens should know what this seriousness looks like in practice. There, I mean, now Mrs. Kovac, she was present. We, among other things, found at the Committee's session that a public hearing was organised on 27 October last year, including representatives of some NGOs. This may be some way to communicate with representatives of NGOs, but you will admit that neither Mr Meho Omerovic nor any of the presidents of the Assembly boards can have any kind of communication with representatives of NGOs outside the Assembly, outside the procedure, outside the Committee's session. He said, I was very valuable, so I wrote down, among other things – an explanation I got directly from Deretta that amendments are acceptable to the NGO. Is this, Mrs. Kovac, correct? If I'm lying, here, you say "I'm Nemanja Sarovic lies" and I'm more in this law, even though I'm an authorised representative, I won't answer a single time. Mr Meho Omerovic also said of the Committee: "In the future, we should meet more often, because the committee presidents do not know which law from their portfolio will be on the agenda of the Assembly when the government schedules for an emergency procedure." I quote: "I hope this is the last time we have a problem with relationships," the Committee president says about the way communication was going between him and the ministry. That's the seriousness you're talking about. Mrs. Elvira Kovac complained that Mr. Meho Omerovic was reading too quickly during the vote, so she begged him to read a little slower because no member of the Committee appeared for the amendment debate, but was only read – the amendment to the member and the one who was, for, against, abstaining. Mrs. Kovac, representative of the ruling coalition, opposed it and said, "Please, Mr. Omerovic, read slowly," and then complained. There was also a discussion between Mr. Omerovic and Mrs. Kovac, that even when he voted, he did not raise his head to see who voted. She claimed that her right, regardless of its non-inheritance, was to vote for those amendments that are good, which in her opinion are good. As far as seriousness is concerned, I think it's said enough, and I have some quotes here, so if you think, Mr. Omerovic, that you're going further into this debate and that you're saying everything is wonderful and wonderful, then I'm going to still be out there. You know very well that the members of the Committee and the representatives of the Ministry have barely refrained from laughing, how serious the Committee's session was. Mr Petronijevic says they have become amendments to the Committee. Yes, that's true, the moment they were adopted. Mr Petronivic, the moment these amendments were distributed to you, could not stand "the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Fight and Social Affairs", but could have stood for "Meha Omerovic's proposal" or "Miljenko Dereta's proposal". That's the only way he could get into the material. Mrs. Kovac protested the fact that she had submitted certain amendments, but that these amendments were not multiplied and distributed to the other members of the Committee. That's what's true. Someone has decided in advance which amendments are appropriate and which will pass. It was even, here, and let me tell you, of the four amendments... Since the Committee worked without a quorum for a while, it was found that the Committee had no quorum, because in the meantime Mrs Kovac came out for a moment, so Committee President Meho Omerovic said – I suggest (when Mrs Kovac came back) that we vote in the package for the previous four amendments. He's been working so hard on the board. It's been voted in the package. Check it out, and that's a fact. Mrs. Comic, you know that's not possible. If you want to stick to the Rules of Procedure, give Mr. Omerovic a reminder of the obvious violation of the procedure. Then I proposed, procedurally, that all other amendments (and that was at the beginning of work) to the law on preventing abuse, which is not accepted by the government, because that is the only thing relevant, votes in the package. Do you know what they said? They said -- that's a good suggestion, let's do it that way. I answered again and said – Mr. Omerovic, it was not a serious proposal, so I wanted to make a mockery of how the Committee was working until that moment. He says he can't, we've already accepted it. I say - you cannot accept, there is a Rules of Procedure. Then they reluctantly moved on to vote on one amendment at a time. That's what's true and what's true. Mrs. Comic, I believe you've realized now what I wanted to say. You can see now that neither a shred of malice nor a lie was in what I said. I believe you're too hasty. Perhaps even now you regret giving me a warning. It's not? Mrs. Comic, I know that, as "a pillar of democracy", you will at least once get the strength to say that you have made a mistake. Be assured that the fact that you have made a mistake this time will be confirmed by all those attending the Committee's sessions. Mr. Omerovic, I have more of your quotes here. These weren't the Ministry's amendments, they were Milenko Deretta's. It's a way of working and communicating that's absolutely unacceptable. What is the role of the National Assembly? Have either of you recently read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Have you read the Law on the Assembly? Have you read the Rules of Procedure? The government in Serbia is divided into three branches: executive, legislative and judicial. By subduing and humiliating the Assembly and the MPs as the highest representatives of the citizens elected, you make a mini coup every time you do so, and then you try to cover your incompetence and insecureness by giving representatives of the opposition a warning. Mrs. Komic, you gave me a warning without a basis. I haven't offended anyone. We can consult a stenogram. I made my point. I have the right to take it out, no matter how different it is from yours, to the moment I start lying, slandering or anything else. You had no reason to give me a warning. I know, Mrs. Comic, that I'm nice to you and that it's been difficult for you, but I guess you're changing a little bit. I don't know if there's a problem in that chair; you're very kind when we meet in the hallway. I don't know who you even tried to protect with that act. I met very friendlyly and talked to Mr. Omerovic and Mr. Rasim Ljajic and Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić, but that does not mean that I cannot express a politically different opinion. That's exactly what you're trying to disable by giving me a warning. That, Mrs. Komic, is not good, especially because we are talking about the law on preventing abuse at work. Look, Mrs. Komic, will I, when this law is passed, be able to address the court and ask for protection from you, because you, Mrs. Komic, have not only mentally oppressed me, not only have you tried to convince me and the Serbian public of something that you cannot, but your punishment also means a fine, one, the other, the third, the fifth. Such penalties have been charged to dozens or hundreds in the previous period. I'm sure none of these people who are here in the O.R. are ready to stand up and say – Nemanja Sarovic is guilty of something. I'm sure the Ministry's representatives wouldn't agree with you either. The amendments we wrote were extremely good. We tried to fix this law. We'll talk a lot today about the reasons for our amendments, which are extremely inadequate and which mean nothing. Please, Mrs. Comic, in the Christian spirit, I will forgive you, I am not angry with you. Maybe it's part of your nature that exceeds at some point. I'm not really mad at you...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40822	National MP, you cannot give any knowledge of any details of the private life of other persons. This is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can't make any claims about my nature or anyone else's nature, all the participants in the session. I warn you of respect for the regulations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40823	Please, Mrs. Komic, that in the next part of the debate, you still have a little more patience and that this discussion still takes place more in the direction of the law and less in the direction of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40824	National MP Nemanja Sarovic used the total time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 27, taking care of the agenda, I would like to inform you that you can see with your insight into the stenogram that it is unpopular, and to me much more unpleasant than you, the measure of caution is given because of the fact that you claimed that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs is misleading the public. If the participant in the session does not know the difference between freedom of speech and popularization of false and lying, then he is the chairman of the obligation to remind him of this, with the desire to participate together in the application of the Rules of Procedure. Anything but the lack of information relating to you, or the status of the MP... People's MPs are not employed persons. People's MPs don't close a collective labor contract. People's MPs have no rights under the Labour Act. National MPs who so choose are in constant work, and this is the problem we have and I am grateful that you mentioned it, since it may be a topic of work and development of certain parts of the Law on the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40825	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Sarovic, you're forgiven. It's always a pleasure to listen to you, regardless, and when you say things that aren't in place or not standing. The good news and the good news for all of us in the Serbian Parliament is that in the future, we do not seem to have to use the services of those who perform stenographic services, because you are so careful and careful to take care of what the president of a certain committee says for every commendation. It's just, there's a couple of drawbacks. For the sake of other distinguished colleagues and the public, let me point out a few irregularities and misunderstandings that you may have left unwittingly in this discussion of yours that lasted, I think, almost nine to ten minutes. So, if you thought, Mr. Sarovic, that I, as chairman of the Committee, would be 150 times you, who are a member of Parliament and who have the right to participate in the work of each committee, to ask what you think of the individual amendment, then I don't think you understand the essence of the work of certain working bodies of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Either you're mean or you're trying to be funny, which I think you did. As for the quote and what you've been saying at the expense of the criticisms you might have drawn, it's true that I was saying, and I'm proud to point out that we in parliament have a problem in communication. This problem is not just a reflection of the path that we take between the committees of the Assembly, the congregation services and government institutions, but rather something that we are facing. I am convinced that through the amendments of the Rules of Procedure in June, we will remove all shortcomings and we will be even more efficient and in this context I support your efforts to make the Assembly work and act as efficiently as possible. As for the proposals submitted by NGOs, of course it is true, Mr. Sarovic, no one has the right, except for the MP, to submit amendments. They have some other independent regulatory bodies, but the MP, one of us 250, is the only one who has the power to submit the amendment. Of course, representatives of various institutions, organisations, unions, associations of citizens, I will remind you, have come to visit all parliamentary groups, so they have proposed certain amendments. These amendments have come to the parent committees, well, by logic of things and by respecting the Rules of Procedure, since they cannot be a proposal of these NGOs, unions or associations, there is always one of the MPs who literally copys them. The same case was, you will allow me, with the amendments tabled by the distinguished fellow MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party, which have been prescribed amendments by some of the representatives of NGOs. So I see no violation of the Rules of Procedure, no law, that's our job. Our superior job is to respect the opinion of citizens, regardless of whether they are gathered around unions, associations of citizens or some NGOs. I think we are on the right track because in the last few years and how we respect the civil sector, and how we appreciate the opinion of NGOs, which should be corrective, not only in the work of the government and government institutions, but also to help us create laws and legal solutions, so that they are as good as possible, above all in the interests of these same citizens. I therefore see all your remarks as a contribution to improving the quality and efficiency of Parliament, and in this sense I thank you for every comment you make, and I think that we will work even better together in future work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40826	It was used three minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Nemanja Sarovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40827	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting in accordance with article 101 for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40828	People's MP, the right to replica is not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I did not say that the Rules of Procedure had been injured, I reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP, word over order and before other MPs can only be obtained on the basis of article 101 if you wish to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica is the decision of the chairman and has nothing to do with the right to receive a word on the basis of article 100, which in the first position says that you get a word before other Members of Parliament if you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. So, decide, either you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or you think you have a right to replication, you can't both In that case, the word will first have Elvira Kovac, then you. [[I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: I am reporting for replica.]] The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40829	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would return to the agenda. On the agenda, we have amendments and additions to the law on prevention of labour abuse, not the presentation of a stenogram, persuasion of the Labour Committee, combat and social issues. I am a member of the above-mentioned Committee, and I am sorry that the media is not following the work of this committee because I believe that the issue of social affairs is one of the very important issues; we should work even more on it and the media and the public should help us. When we talk about the proposed text of the law on preventing labour abuse, unfortunately, the proposed legal text was not ideal. Otherwise, I'll use the time of the authorized representative. () I also said that in the debate in principle, but I would like to point out for the public that MPs from various parliamentary groups work alongside committees, working groups and informal parliamentary groups. That's what I really said to the Committee today, that we have an informal parliamentary group dealing with improving the position of persons with HIV. I accept the responsibility that, despite the fact that there are nine of us from eight different parliamentary groups there, we did not in time formulate amendments to this informal parliamentary group. I thought, given the willingness shown by the fact that, as we heard from Mr. Misa Petronijevic's presentation, the ministry accepted twelve amendments and that today the Committee also accepted ten amendments, that the text of the law would drastically change. He's acceptable to us now, but I'm sorry we haven't had a chance to discuss eight amendments to the informal parliamentary group to improve the position of persons with HIV. That's one thing. To be clear, we're partly to blame for not handing over those amendments as individual MPs, so we could talk about them here now. We probably didn't have a majority on the board. Some members of the opposition wanted to support him, but perhaps the other members did not, as we heard from the government's representatives, that these amendments were not good. As for the amendments we are discussing, so as not to ask for a word about each amendment, the amendments of the Committee are really good and improve the legal text. It even worked out, as we heard, I don't want to repeat, that certain amendments were made in that spirit that they replaced three or four amendments, because it was impossible of seventy and some of the proposed amendments to accept everything. You saw that the difference in certain amendments was minimal. To compromise, new amendments covering the part that are MPs have been made, regardless of whether from the opposition or parties to the ruling majority, have been proposed. As soon as I have taken my word, if you'll excuse me, I will speak briefly – I hope I will not violate the Rules of Procedure, since NGOs, the work of our committee, etc. – about the second law, which was discussed by the Committee President and Mr Sarovic, which is the law on volunteering. There was an even bigger debate, precisely because indeed our Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs organised a public debate, which is, I must stress to the public, one of the best ways that we MPs really represent citizens and that we really involve everyone, both the NGOs and the citizens who choose us, in improving the legal text. I think that's the common goal of all of us. I once again accept the responsibility that the Committee’s failure to organise another public hearing from October 27th to the day of today, and now both laws, which have long been waiting in the congregation procedure, are on the agenda. Last week we had a discussion in principle, this week's debate in particular. I must once again commend the Ministry, regardless of what I said on the Committee for not accepting certain amendments, because indeed a large number of amendments have been accepted. A large number of amendments were accepted; if they were of quality, it was completely irrelevant who proposed them. We hope that, as far as the first draft law is concerned, all amendments to our parent committee will be accepted. By doing so, this law will be much better. Of course, we'll back him up. I must stress that I believe, as I said in the debate in principle, that the proposed law on mobbing was such that I didn't see exactly how it would apply in practice. Now I hope it's possible, but it's not excluded that we'll have his changes and additions in some future. As far as volunteering law is concerned, there has indeed been a maximum compromise between the NGO sector and all of us. I think it's a big thing that finally introduces volunteering into our legal system as a good act, like helping someone else. As is very important that our country is among the nine, ten countries in Europe that will have a law on preventing labour abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40830	Five minutes and forty-five seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, so the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40831	Very short. Mr. Sarovic mentioned me in his presentation; we agreed he was an amendment to the Committee, but in the second part he tried to question who proposed him. He proposed to the Committee the president of the Committee, the paper exists, writes – the proposal, writes – Meho Omerović. It may be proposed to the Committee by any member of the Committee, and we have made that clear at the Committee's session. There's no dilemma here, this is just for the public's sake. Otherwise, it is much more important, I repeat, the quality of the amendments, the quality to cover a large number of amendments that MPs have proposed, the quality that is obtained in the final version of the law. Otherwise, it doesn't occur to me to get into the controversy, to discuss what anyone said on the board. I'd be trapped making a farm out of the congregation for some TV. The Assembly, however, is a serious body, with serious laws on the agenda, with a large number of good amendments, and when we discuss them, in fact, to clarify all issues related to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40832	A minute and 40 seconds has been used since the time of the authorised representative. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Mehe Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40833	Can I speak to Mr Petronievich right away?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40834	You have the right to the replica of MP Meh Omerovic for three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40835	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Omerovic for confirming that all the allegations I made are correct, that amendments were voted in the package, that there were a number of other irregularities in the Committee's session, as regards the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40836	People's MP, I really ask you to take care of the severity and seriousness of the spoken word. I see it doesn't seem like a violation of the Rules of Procedure when you say there have been various irregularities in the work of the Committee. Irregularities in the Committee's work have the effect that we must take care of the tide whether we are working with decisions made by procedure or not. I really ask you to understand that you have the responsibility for the public word both you and every other participant of the session and that, however creative a gift you have for attitude, you express it with awareness of the obligations prescribed by the Members of the Rules of Procedure and with awareness of how great the responsibility of the spoken words is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40837	Thank you, Mrs. Komic, most kindly, I know that you have said this well on purpose and I will really try to move within the limits of what the Rules of Procedure allows. That's why I'm gonna base myself solely on facts. If I quote and read the official document, I hope it's not possible to hurt the Rules of Procedure. So this is a document that I received at the Committee's session, where it says to the President of the National Assembly, based on members of this and this, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs tabled a bill on preventing abuse at work. That's something we got before the Committee's session, which was made before the Committee's session, and the Committee could, not disputed, adopt someone's proposal. So Miljenko Derret or anyone else, that the president of the Committee had some kind of proposal, but it had to go into the procedure as a proposal for it and that, the ministry, the NGO, the Miljenko Deretta or anyone else. The moment the Assembly Committee voted most of it as its proposal, it is only from that moment on that it becomes a proposal for a committee. That's what the point is. Another fact: On 27 October, when it was a public hearing, as you call it, the Committee decided most of the votes that it could not accept this bill in principle, and the same members of the Committee accepted the same bill several months later. How much serious is best spoken and the fact that more than 70 amendments have been submitted to the law of 38 members, so at least two per member. A large number of these amendments have been submitted by representatives of the Ministry, the Committee, in which the ruling majority has the majority and representatives of the ruling coalition, which means that you have not read the law properly in those years and have not submitted the amendments in time, but what you have seen through the amendments of the other MPs, when we have submitted them. Now you're making new amendments and you're installing it into the law itself. It was our intention to fix the law, but don't take it as something positive that 22 amendments have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40838	Three minutes. Thank you. In accordance with Article 27, taking care of the order at the sitting and providing all the necessary information, I remind all Members of the Parliaments that each committee, as the working body of the National Assembly, is able to submit an amendment to the principle of a draft law or any other act, and until the start of the debate in particular. I refer to Members of Parliament who have misunderstandings on the procedure of members of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the issue of the submission of amendments by the Committee of the National Assembly, as working bodies. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 2? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have an obligation to say in front of the SNS that we too were dissatisfied with Article 2. We were not satisfied with the scope, we sought to extend our rights with our amendment to extend that protection against abuse. In particular, it referred to volunteers or possibly persons who work in the public interest according to the court's decision, although there were obviously others who had otherwise engaged in the work. It is good that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has changed this member by its amendment, but it seems to me that it is not good that we received this report literally before the debate began. I hope that this extension of the right to follow in other members will be brought into line, and I hope that in some debate that will follow each and every one of the members we will see this constant and the goal of improving this law and that in all the members this extension of the right is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40840	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has the floor, following an amendment to article 2, which she submitted along with counterpart Donko Banovic and counterpart Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40841	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm sorry, I was a little late to call. What I have to comment on before I start talking about this concerns you, Madam Chairman, so I'm going to ask you... The time I used earlier, which you said, how much I heard, that it was the time of an authorised representative, wasn't the time of the authorized representative. I talked for two minutes about the amendment, and the rest was group time. When I speak as an authorised representative, I will announce it. Thank you. So what we, like most parliamentary groups, have tried to change in this Article 2 is something that appears in many theories as a possible variant. We used a really wide repertoire of material on this occasion, starting with French legislation, which I see has also been used here as an example, but it's gone somewhere, so this Article 2 is that. We also used several definitions that were widely accepted when it comes to mobbing, such as Lejman's definition, as is the definition used here, which is the definition that relies most on what Mrs. Vesna Baltezarevic was doing. In fact, that's what we tried to change our amendment here in Article 2. What we do not understand is not clear to us in more places, you comment here – it is not accepted because volunteer work here is considered work outside of working relationships and is therefore covered by the proposed formulation referred to in the article of the law. It wasn't our intention to change it, but come on, we'll open it even more later, because it appears in a few places one answer that isn't adequate compared to what we wrote. I see that what is repeatedly commented here is not exactly what some MPs wrote, it doesn't matter who signed it; it just seems to me it has a lot more to do with who signed it, not what was written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40842	Twenty-five seconds, also from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40843	I was just talking about the fact that by modifying Article 2 we've basically expanded the rights of users of protection against abuse. Unfortunately, there has been no change and acceptance of our amendment to Article 3, because it is sexual harassment and it is that it is harmonised, or reduced, that it refers to sexual harassment in accordance with the law governing work. If we are already in this newly accepted Article 2. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs extended the rights of users to persons on supplementary work, persons on vocational education, volunteers, persons with different labour contracts, I think it was necessary to accept this amendment, because as a member of the 3rd fact limits application, and our aim was, I guess, to the Committee, as I said, to extend this law. This Article 3 could also be found within the framework of Article 6, which treats the concept of abuse. It is a pity that these amendments to the law have come on such short notice that they will obviously not be in line with the other members of the law, i.e. they will not be incorporated into the other members of the law, which is why we will likely be in a position to have changes and additions to this law soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40844	Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 5 and 5. Does anyone want a word? Now it's the Committee's amendment. Does the government's representative want to make a statement? We will return to the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Now he has the word of Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40845	On behalf of the promoter, we accept the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40846	Thank you. I apologize for the change in order. Does anyone else want a word in the discussion in detail on the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40847	Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 in which we have proposed that the words "to the greatest extent possible" be deleted. Article 4 of this Act refers to the creation of a healthy and safe working environment. As defined by this article, which has one attitude, it is truly abstract and stretching. We would ask those who refused us this amendment to explain what is the greatest measure possible. I will remind you that in the principle debate Mr. Sarovic spoke and pointed to some provisions of this law that were also unacceptable, but in the sense that something was absolutely imposed through them, so there he made parallels with the Ministry of the Interior, that he could not make himself so rigorous, or absolutely foresee legal powers. You then defended it with one attitude, and now we are interested in it. What is the greatest measure that the employer will manage when he provides and creates working conditions? That's pretty stretchy. We're interested, if it's not this law, what's it going to be in some sublegal act, what's going to be a framework, so there's going to be something within that box that's the most possible measure? Don't have a dilemma, every employer, whatever conditions he creates in his company, company, institution, always, when he calls on this law, to use and to say – I created all the conditions to the greatest extent possible. You won't have an argument to contest such a claim or the fact that he's holding onto something like that. So we suggest that this move aside, and we will essentially not change your intention and intensity that you propose under this law to Article 4. We suggest you reconsider and accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40848	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40849	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40850	I find the minister has accepted the amendment of MP Dragan Stevanovic. Given that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not accepted the amendment, and the proposer is now, the amendment will still be presented in the voting day. National MPs Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 6th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40851	On behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 6, where we are asking to be in Article 6(1). The bill of the word "repeated" is deleted and the words "work or break-up" are replaced by the words "on the basis of which the work or leaving work is carried out". The regulation that abuse is just behavior that is repeated is incorrect and unacceptable and in collapsing with other laws, because it would mean that any one-time harassment and harassment are allowed and employees are not protected from such behavior. At the same time, it is unclear under which conditions conduct is thought to be repeated, or whether it is related to the person responsible for the abuser or is a condition that it is the same type of abuse or the same victim. Viewing that any abuse, even once, is illegal and that employees must be protected from such behaviour, we suggest that the word "repeated" be deleted. By replacing the word "work or break-up" with the words "on the basis of work or leaving work", protection is extended to persons performing work on the basis of other types of contract, within the meaning of the amendment to Article 2. Proposal. In addition, protection includes a situation where a person is forced to quit work without formal termination of work. The proposal provides for protection only in the event that a person terminates a working relationship, which by law covers a break-up of workers or agreements, and in most cases workers leave work without formal termination, and subsequently get fired for leaving work, and this case does not cover the proposal. We believe that the amendment should be adopted and that protection should also be extended to the case of leaving work without formal termination of the contract, given that the most common objective of the perpetrator is to force the victim to leave his job, which has the most serious consequences for the employee, because after the cancellation he cannot exercise any rights based on the termination of the contract and unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40852	The time spent from the time of the parliamentary group is fifteen seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40853	I must say that we have accepted here a similar amendment of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, so that you can be satisfied; practically, your amendment has been accepted in some modified form, through the amendment of the Committee on Labour.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40855	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm using time per amendment and something from the MP's group. In this Article, paragraph 1, we tried to find some moduso that would satisfy and what the previous colleague was saying, whether it was just a frequency or one case, so we'd list and review all the definitions that we could come up with. It is common to all of us that it is hostile and aggressive behavior that is repeated, which has a certain frequency. That's why we tried to give one definition here. Mobing is a psychological terror present at work. It refers to hostile and unethical communication and harassment that are systematically directed by one or more individuals mainly towards an individual who is helpless and unable to defend himself. What is important and repeated is that harassment occurs with a very high frequency; it is said, at least once a week and over a long period of time, for at least six months. As a consequence, significant mental and psychosomatic and social sufferings occur. When we did some research on this subject, we saw that there are really a lot of drastic examples that happen, let's just say, once. We were simply in the process of putting it in your motion in some way, trying to actually protect those victims where that abuse only happened once, where there is no frequency, but where there are drastic consequences. We were here somewhere on a similar trail as my colleague who spoke before us. Is it possible, then, that abuse is allowed only once? It doesn't have to happen again if it's just once. Apparently, according to this bill, it's allowed. Also, it seems to us that the construction of the sentence itself: “only once”... Is that little – just once? I think it's also very important that these drastic examples be introduced into the law. What you are now contesting, in your comment on why you rejected the amendment, you say: “Amendment is not accepted in an act that suggests that the victim of abuse within the meaning of this law may also be an employer, for the reason that the employer (private entrepreneur or director of a company, head of state and others) has all the powers under the law to sanction the behaviour of an employee who could be defined as abuse of him as an employer. The employer, because of the authority he has toward his employees, is most often in a position to be the perpetrator of abuse, not the victim of abuse. In addition, in parallel legislation, an employer is not defined as a victim of abuse. “ You are making mistakes here in an explanation. I must remind you that there is a kind of abuse at work called vertical abuse, which can have two directions: an employer can abuse a worker, but it can be vice versa. There are cases, even with a pretty high frequency, if you look at research in Serbia, where the phenomenon simply went in the opposite direction – workers abused employers. It's the only way I can convince you to consult some literature. On the other hand, what I'm saying is, is it possible that employers are the only group in this country that is being discriminated against? Why don't you allow them by law that there's a possibility that such a situation might happen? Maybe it won't be common. I agree with you that those most frequently abused are actually employees and workers. The bottom line of our story about transition and cloudy times is that anyone who privatized the company to himself says he's the boss, he acts like that. In fact, the employee is someone for him who doesn't work for him and acquires capital and gets the owner of the company, the employer and himself, but... It's simple, one of the kinds of mobbing is that he doesn't pay his salary. It's also abuse. You have situations where workers haven't been paid in months. This ministry has to react that way. We urge you to leave the possibility that everyone has equal rights in this country, because so says the Constitution of this country, and to allow the possibility that, according to theories, according to literature, there is; it is vertical mobing, it is described and known for it. Accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40856	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is two minutes and forty-five seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40857	I regularly have this handicap to speak after Ms. Milice Vojic-Markovic, who shows the essence of what I intended to say. In fact, if we want to make a precise and good law on preventing abuse at work, it's very important that we never leave out the category of vertical mobbing. The colleague spoke of this horizontal mobing, which happens between people who are placed in a similar hierarchical scale, there being a vertical mobing, where the most often assumed abuse of an individual or a group of employees, but it is not a rare case for a self-presumed victim to abuse one or a group of employees. It would be a shame, perhaps irreparable damage, to discriminate precisely on employers, since this law in a certain way reintroduces a category of political similarities. In fact, a "politically inadequate" employer could be a victim of abuse by a group of employees who want to eliminate him. I added in Article 6 of this first amendment that the words "physical integrity" should be added to the words "physical and psychological" in the post 1st position, because I felt that the more precise definition of the concept of abuse was needed, simply, by apostrophesing that abuse leaves consequences not only for the physical but also for the mental health of the victim. Besides, this precise definition is also contained in the French law on preventing abuse at work. Since a colleague presented the essence of what is the idea of my amendment, I think what is generally good today in this debate on the law on preventing abuse of work is that we are somehow going towards consensus instead of party thinking. I'll quote someone who's very close to me and you're very familiar. It is a former and very likely future prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, who was recently in an interview with Nenad Lj on 12 May. Stefanovic said in "The Witness": "Whatever it was, from 2004 to 2007 there was a rule to establish a consensus, unity of government and opposition. Consensus practically always existed instead of scrawny thinking." At that time, of course, Kosovo's future was negotiated with consensus, there have been reports and platforms, and for the last two years we have not experienced, for example, discussing Kosovo in the Assembly and there has been no situation to discuss the government's mistrust. What's good and what's an exception today is that we can reach a consensus on such an important law instead of close-minded thinking. It is good that you, Mr. Minister Ljajic, are in fact one of your motivations today best suited to what Vojislav Kostunica said in this interview.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40858	The time spent since the authorized representative's time is one minute and twenty-seven seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Authorised Proposer, Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40859	I said just now that we accept this amendment, which is practically an amended part of the amendment submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40860	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40861	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this will be another amendment that the minister accepts. If he listens to me carefully, he'll see that this is an amendment that needs to be accepted. The amendment submitted by MP Milan Avramovic on behalf of the SRS in a simpler and more precise, more legally appropriate manner is to regulate who can be the perpetrator of the abuse. In the solution that you have offered, and I will go first from your explanation why you do not accept this amendment... You say that the bill specifies who may be the perpetrator of the abuse when it comes to the employer of a legal person, unlike the solution proposed in the amendment of the MP. If, Mr. Ljajic, compare what was proposed by the amendment and what was proposed in the bill, you will see that the circle of persons who could be perpetrators of abuse is the same. The only difference is that you say that "the perpetrator of abuse is considered"... When you say that someone is considered, therefore, pre-determined, considered backwards, or I don't know how, and if you legally want to define it, you can only determine a circle of faces that can be perpetrators of abuse. Therefore, one cannot be considered an perpetrator of abuse, for one is an perpetrator or not, and this is proved in accordance with the procedure prescribed by this law. But in all laws, when determining a circle of faces is said – it can be. This part of the 3rd attitude is identical: it may be an employer with a physical personality, it may be a responsible person in the employer with the property of a natural person, employee or group of employees, etc. There is absolutely no difference in that part, but the legally unmatched solution proposed by the amendment is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40862	Two minutes used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plassic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of the 6a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Snezana Stojanović-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40863	Thank you. The very fact that article 6 has a lot of amendments tells us that there are dilemmas about whether the law has made it clear and precise enough to define the very concept of abuse in the work it does. Given that I am an authorised representative of the G17 Plus Group, I would like to point out once again that it is of great importance for our society to adopt such a law and that, given that this matter is first regulated, it is understandable that we have a number of dilemmas about how in the best way to shape it and lead to this law being truly applicable in practice. I would also like to commend the Ministry, which is the legislator of this law and those who have worked on the law, of course Minister Ljajic, as well as Mrs Katić-Bukumirić, who listens carefully to this debate all the time today. I want to say that I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 with the idea that it was necessary to clarify the concept itself and give a clearer definition of the concept of abuse at work. I am fully aware that it is impossible to give a fully comprehensive and precise definition. I'm fully aware of the fact that there are different definitions. We talked a lot about it in principle. I also had some dilemmas about whether behavior must be repeated in order to represent abuse. In a strict legal sense, abuse is not a term that suffers repetition. Abuse is abuse even if it happens once. However, given that it is a work abuse, i.e. on mobbing, then most definitions really contain this recurring effect that results in both the effects of work and leaving the workplace and everything we talked about, so I think that definition is relatively acceptable, as regards the existing Article 6. I suggested that Article 6a be added, which would more precisely define a defined definition, i.e. separate it into physical, sexual and psychological abuse. I have given the listed actions that represent these types of abuse, so I have stated that mental abuse is any procedure that harms the psychological integrity and dignity of a person, regardless of whether it is done with oral speech, written through, action, gesture, facial expression or other means, and especially persecution, humiliation, ridicule, ridicule, ridicule, search, confiscation and damage to personal matters, equipment and data, as well as other forms of personal or social harm, causing enmity to one person or a group of persons by calling for a boycott or putting on "black lists" and disabling communication with others, i.e. making personal and social contacts. So I listed all of those actions that we're all here in the plenary section, that is, in the principle debate, in fact, instructions as the content of the definition of the concept we're dealing with. Why did I think this was necessary? Because I think it is necessary to define this matter as precisely as possible so that there is no confusion in practice and no problem in proving what it is and what it is not abuse. This definition that is given, so broadly set – that it is any active or passive behavior with the goal of challenging etc. – can indeed create dilemmas about the behavior and whether or not there has been or has been no abuse. The explanation I received is that it is not necessary to specify matter in this detail by law itself and that it will be governed by a sublegal act. I can accept that in part. I'm not a lawyer, but it always seems better to make the laws as clear as possible. On the other hand, I got an explanation that sexual abuse is not necessary here. That's my dilemma, too. If we have already put it in Article 3, or if you have singled it out as a special form of abuse and stressed that it also refers to sexual harassment, according to the law governing the work, then it means that you yourself were aware that sexual harassment should be introduced. Again, with physical, and I'm wondering if it's part of this matter, since it must be a crime, such as sexually harassing a violation of the Labour Act. It seems to me that all these dilemmas could have been solved by this proposal, which is to explain to Article 6a that they include both physically and sexually and psychologically, and what exactly forms of behavior they are. That's my idea. I still believe it was a better solution, but I leave it open to the minister to make a decision on it, and to the MPs during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40864	Three minutes and forty seconds from the time of the authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40865	Madam Chairman, I ask you to take the time away from the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I think it's a real pleasure to take part today in a debate about such an important law. We've seen the public's interest because of the very importance of the law. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the engagement of all MPs who have given very relevant and professional amendments. As for Mrs Plassic's amendments, he's quite correct. I've been talking to a lot of people these days who are dealing with this problem. Many judges have really asked me what it would mean to be abused and whether all the examples of abuse would be taxed. It was then spontaneously concluded that it was impossible in the law to predict all possible forms of abuse because the possibilities for someone to disrupt mental and physical integrity, that they do not represent a person, are indeed numerous. It seems to me that the legislator had it in mind when he was bringing in Article 6, because it was a general provision. It is certain that a great contribution to this will be made by sublegal acts, and in particular by case law, since the court will, on the basis of an assessment of all the evidence provided, measureically determine whether there has been abuse or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40866	One minute and forty seconds used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40867	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The amendment proposes that Article 1 be deleted from Article 7. Otherwise, this head speaks of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employer and employees in connection with the abuse. We think that this first attitude is too high, because what he's talking about has to be understood. Namely, the legislator proposes this first position: “The employer is obliged to inform the employee before entering the work in writing of the prohibition of abuse and rights, the obligations and responsibilities of the employee and the employer in connection with the prohibition of abuse, in accordance with this law.” So, I understand what the promoter had in mind here, but I think it's some kind of written notice that there's no abuse against a new worker, so anyone who's just going to be employed... I think it's really something that's meant to be. According to this logic, he should also be provided with written notice that no one should discriminate against him or that no one should beat him, etc. So that abuse is forbidden and must not experience abuse, it is indeed something to mean. If the promoter felt that this written notice should practically ensure that this law, which is yet to be passed, on the prohibition of abuse at work, this cannot be seen. Then, according to that logic, every employer would have to inform the future worker (or in writing) of all the details of the Labour Act. If a new worker or an employee is to work at school, then I should inform him in writing about all the details of the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System or the Preschool Law; or, if he is to work in the health system, all the laws concerning health, or health care, etc. There are a lot of laws in that area. That's why we think this is too high. It won't even contribute to prevention. For example, this second attitude is already something else, it is more concrete and says that "the employer is obliged to, in order to recognise, prevent and prevent abuse, implement measures to inform and train employees and their representatives". So here it's absolutely concrete. The fact that you will now oblige employers to make up some written pamphlet or writing work, where they will convince this law, will really do nothing to prevent the abuse of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40868	One minute used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Milica Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40869	I'll use my authorized time. Articles 6 and 7 of this law were recognized as very important and we had this particular dilemma about content, the way you wrote it in the proposal. That's what we said in our amendments, after all. If you'd accepted... And because of that, I take the word as authorized, I just think that these things should be potentiated and they should be opened now and before the public. If you had accepted the amendment Mrs Plassic signed, where she taxfully states that all these forms of abuse, that anyone who receives it can recognise the employer's behaviour as abuse, I could understand that now in article 7, you are obliging the employer to present material to each new employee under this law. Simply, in Article 7(1), you are very declaring that the employer should inform the new employee that abuse is prohibited. There are some things that are meant to be. Abuse, harassment, discrimination is one of those things. I didn't see at any supermarket that the employer wrote that the theft was forbidden. That's understood. There are some things that are far from being just normatively arranged and that those in the tradition and culture of a nation simply don't recognize themselves. One of these is that abuse is forbidden. It's okay that abuse is forbidden, but if you introduce in the position of the 2nd Article 7th education as a measure, then it makes sense, education and employees and employers, especially employers, especially owners of some companies who obviously have no idea about communication or other things. Then that makes sense. This first attitude is completely declarative and therefore we think that he is only there to say – well, we have prescribed it by law; the employer says – I have beautifully shared this paper and, in the end, we are all calm, our conscience is calm, the abuser does it on his own. When it comes to this article 7, which I mentioned in the principle debate, it is very important to repeat that we as a society show a tendency to get used to violence and abuse at work. The fact that at one point the unpleasant fact that appears in the media, which is currently being talked about, after a certain number of days, that I don't say hours, becomes something that we're used to, is becoming something that's common in a society, a company, and that's why it's important to mention it. It is also important to mention one more thing, especially the working environment has a tendency to be abused and that violence is simply accepted in this way – or guilty, so it is done to him, or if it is not guilty, there is no reason to worry. Under that we can give the whole story that we talked about in the principle debate, that workers and employees are practically put into a situation that what they fear most is losing their jobs. So they're more afraid of it than disease and everything else. Imagine the working environment, which you have described as a healthy working environment, imagine that working environment in which no one wants to interfere because of the very real fear of losing their jobs. The victim is finally beginning to think that she's the one who's to blame and that there's a grain of her guilt in this whole story. That's something we have to point out and what should be mentioned very often because we in the National Assembly, and I suppose you in the Ministry, need to get the public for this law. We need to get the public to really notice abuse, and they won't notice it if you don't notice what I've shown you at this time about vertical abuse. So we all have to get used to recognising the phenomenal forms of all this and react to it. That's why I reacted when the MPs here talked about Article 7(1), which is why I was saying it because it doesn't mean anything. If we knew the shapes, that they were taxed... There's a law where it's taxed, and here, I'm going to give you five laws from agriculture that we've adopted recently, where we're taxing everything that needs to be stated. If we have a problem with judges, who will also have a problem recognising all of this, and we have a really wide range of phenomenal shapes and a very lush imagination; if we have employers, who will certainly try to show this to a minor and say that it is all someone's whim or need to engage in modern Europe in this way; if we have vague things, such as the definition, which may have been extended and with much more tax data, then we will have a problem with the application of the law. I guess our goal is for all of us to make this law applicable and to really prevent abusers from committing abuse at work, as well as to help a victim, who, apart from the state, really doesn't have much to help. We must bear in mind that this law is now the first time here, so the state has neither had any institutions nor an institute to help the victim. The family is the one who helps the victim a little bit, has been a little supportive since the beginning, and then raises his hands because it's also a problem for the family. There are several NGOs involved, such as the Serbian Victemological Society, which says 51% of all those who reported harassment last year were those who reported abuse at work. We have several other NGOs who say they have five to ten calls a day to report this. We have a situation where unions, which should be partners in solving how to overcome this problem in our society, which is growing... To be clear, he's not new, but he's growing up. So we have a pretty confusing situation, with a lot of actors, who don't have clear standards and criteria. Then I ask you all to think about it together and really accept the amendments that we wrote, because we didn't write them to cause someone a problem to listen to all this tonight and afternoon, but to improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40870	Seven minutes and twenty-five seconds from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by the People's MP Mr. Chiquiriz Mirko.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40871	I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. I would suggest that this amendment be rejected because the extra head doesn't hurt. For what? For the first time, this society gets one such important institute, and for the first time in our legal practice, employees will have one form of protection against such an important way of abuse of labour rights and all possible forms of abuse and mistreatment of personality. If we switch to practical ground for a moment, what will the provision of attitude 1 mean? This will mean, if someone comes to work, let's say, he applied, and it's possible that he took the job of a favorite someone who's willing to commit abuse, whether by horizontal or by vertical, the moment he gets from the employer a written notice that there's a ban on abuse at work, it's actually a kind of prevention, a kind of education, a kind of notification, a kind of getting the safety of an employee that there's an institute that protects him from the possibility of abuse at the beginning. Employees are often exposed to abuse on the first day of work. There have been countless situations in practice that employees of the first working day do not get their desk or that all colleagues in the office have tattooed chairs, and he has some chair on which maltenes cannot sit, or tell him – wait until we find you space, until we find you a table, etc. I don't think this provision is superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40872	Thank you. Two minutes were used. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40873	You can count the time of the group. I'm reporting for what Mr. Chikiriz has now noted, precisely because he spoke in favor of what I said. I fall into those who, when it comes to the laws, think that the right measure is the most important thing about the law; I don't like the excess from whom the head hurts or the head doesn't hurt, or the lack of whom it also hurts or doesn't hurt the head. I think the right measure is what is needed here in the congregation and what is needed in law and that is why I want to comment on it now. When we talked about Mrs. Plassic's amendment, where she taxed things, appearances and everything else, we had one base here that we could go from. When you tell me that it does not hurt the head of the surplus and that this attitude which says: “The employer is obliged to, before entering the work, by written notice of the prohibition of abuse and rights, the obligations and responsibilities of the employee and the employer in connection with the prohibition of abuse, in accordance with this law”... When you say that whoever came to his workplace on the first day and didn't get a chair, do you think he recognized that it was abuse? Of course not. If he had a piece of paper that says everything, possible visions and forms of abuse, he might recognize it, he might find it there, but if it's written like this, he really can't handle it, he doesn't really know. This is how taxing to say - abuse is forbidden, theft is forbidden, murder is forbidden, does not mean anything because there are always those who do so despite bans. Next to your logic, why the Law of Discrimination, which is so important... Why doesn't everyone who is employed, newly employed, have to be informed that no one should discriminate against them? It's understandable. It's completely understood. But we have a situation here to face one law for the first time: and we as MPs, for the first time, edit this matter; this problem has judges; this problem has employers; especially those who are victims of abuse, future victims or those who have already been victims. So we won't help them much if this law is a piece of paper that's wonderful, but they don't know it's their right. They don't know what their right is. What's that way for him to abuse me? Ask, do a survey. I happen to be talking to people in my neighborhood, neighbors... After all, I'm talking about what all the abuse is. Do you know how much ignorance there is? People don't know. People don't even know the basic rights to work, and they just work to know such rights as what forms of abuse are, who can abuse me, who can't abuse me. My idea is – or we'll tax it all out, so that everyone else recognizes it, so all the actors in this story, or this doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40874	Three minutes and ten seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40875	Welcome, Mr. Novakovic. I hope, thanks to your arrival, I'll perhaps receive a few dollars at the end of the month. If Mrs. Comic had stayed here, of course, it would hardly have happened. It would be good, Mr. Novakovic, to call the minister first and get him back to the O.R. I hope that he left for a shorter period or shorter time, because the amendment to Article 8 of the amendment that I was convinced would accept before the debate in particular, but after accepting the amendment to Article 4 he absolutely must accept it. This is a classic example of how right and in writing the law can mean a few words. In this case, we ask, or I ask that only two letters be deleted from this solution given in the Bill's proposal, that instead of what you have proposed in Article 8 - the employer is obliged to protect the employee from abuse, the formulation stands – the employer is obliged to protect the employee from abuse. Why? Because it's simply impossible to seek absolute protection from the employer. And in the principle debate, I told you that you didn't prescribe absolute protection anywhere else. You do not say in the Police Law – police are obliged to prevent all crimes from being committed, but police are obliged to prevent, therefore, from working on it. When you look at your argument why you do not accept the amendment to this article, and I hope it will change now, you say: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the decision in the draft law is more appropriate and implies the obligation of the employer to take the measures and activities prescribed by this law, which ensure the protection of the employee and the responsibility of the employer exists if he has not taken the appropriate measures. “ That’s exactly what I'm saying. Therefore, it is necessary to use the term “protection. ” So he's bound to protect. If he hasn't taken adequate measures, then the employer will be responsible. In his explanation for the amendment to Article 4 that you have just accepted, or which the minister has accepted, the following is about abuse, he says: “... It is not an objective phenomenon that can absolutely be prevented by the organisation of work, so it is unrealistic to establish such an obligation by the employer." That's exactly what I'm saying. That's exactly what I'm saying. If the police are unable to prevent the execution of every crime, then, of course, even the employer cannot be required by law to prevent absolutely any abuse. You understand that the police, who have an incomparably larger spectrum of measures, even coercion, are unable to do so and the responsibility of the employer... So, as if someone at the Ministry who explained the refusal of this amendment had not read well, it was not well understood, because what I am asking is just confirming what is the defined position of the legislator and through other members. So, maybe this is the right time to take a break, so the Legislative Committee can assess whether, in accordance with Article 4, it's going to be possible to exist in Article 8 the way you predicted it. Because when you look at what you have accepted in Article 4, it is that the employer is obliged to “in order to create the conditions necessary for a healthy and safe environment, organize work in a way that prevents abuse. ” So, “he organizes work in a way that is prevented. ” Also, the employer is obliged to protect, not protect. You did not say to article 4, the employer is obliged to prevent it. No, he's bound to stop. If he is obliged to prevent it, then he can only be obliged to protect it; if he does not take adequate measures, then he will be responsible. But you can't prescribe absolute responsibility, because even a security employer, if he takes every possible measure, if he organizes courses every day, if he has two employees, he can't spend eight hours (as long as it's working hours), day by day, he's doing absolute control; he can't be ruled out absolutely, and for the most conscious employer, the possibility of abuse, which means you can't determine the employer's obligation to protect the employee, but only to protect him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40876	Three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The word is Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on preventing labour abuse – Article 8 after the word "of" adds the words "every form". The government has not accepted this amendment, and in its reasons for not accepting this amendment, it is said that it has not been accepted "for reasons of being excessive, because the formulation of Article 8. The bill requires the employer's obligation to protect an employee from abuse defined in Article 6. The bill, which means protecting an employee from any form of abuse. “ This government has shown some kind of inconsistency, because, for example, when fellow Milovanovic asked for an amendment to Article 1(1) to delete the words "and other issues of importance for preventing and protecting against labour abuse and in relation to work", and all in order to prevent different interpretations and to contribute to accuracy, the amendment was rejected with an explanation that by eradicating these words the said article would remain incomplete and incomplete, as it would not cover all the issues that are subject to regulation of the law. When the amendment to Article 8, we ask for the words "in the aim of comprehensiveness" to be added, the amendment is again rejected. We believe that amendments that contribute to accuracy and prevent different interpretations should be accepted, all in order to facilitate the application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40878	Anyone else? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the NS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, where we are asking for a new position 2 to be added after Article 1, which reads: "The employer is obliged to hire an employee in the conclusion of a work contract to notify whom he can report abuse at work." In terms of the government, which I can accept, it is said that already in one article such a formulation is foreseen. However, given that this law regulates something that has never been regulated by law in this society before, and which was not even present as a phenomenon to the extent that it is present in these new capitalist relations that are now on the scene in Serbia, I felt it important that this would be explicitly stated in this Article 8 and that the employer undertakes to give such information to the employee. Of course, the law must be as exact as possible. The law must give both parties complete information and all possibilities as to how a person can legally protect himself from unwanted appearances or how he is obliged to act under certain circumstances. I think that never before in this House's practice, at least in this assembly, some area has so united all parliamentary groups as an area governed by this law. We all felt that, with these quality amendments being submitted, the law should be as good as possible, as applicable in life, as much as possible for the citizens. I think that the real life of the law in everyday life, that is, when it deals with what it is intended to do, will actually show its qualities, or its disadvantages, and then perhaps already this convocation or some next convocation will be able to make it more quality complements and changes, which will then be on stage, correct. This is certainly something new for Serbia, as is this phenomenon in this form and this measure. We want all of us to make a contribution in this way to ensure that this phenomenon is eradicated, that there is no abuse on either side, that it is not present in society and certainly, which is the ultimate objective of the law, that it disappears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40880	Thank you. Thirty-five seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40881	I submitted an amendment to Article 9(1) where I asked that the words "in the workplace" be added after the words "abuse". We felt that the amendment would completely eliminate the possibility of different interpretations, misunderstandings and abuses, and that it was necessary to specify that protection against workplace abuse is at stake. The amendment was not accepted by the government. To prove to you that the amendment was a useful suggestion, let me give you an example. In Beli Palanca, where I am from, which has been considered to be a place with the lowest average wage for a long time, while at the same time bearing the name “Cipelgrad” – a large number of people working in shoemaking, but unfortunately not in the shoe factory “Vesna”, which was still the largest factory of children's training, now privatized and not working, but for many private people who have only registered companies, but not enough work space for all their employees... These people, however, in a much larger number of women, work in houses, garages, basements and impossible conditions, for minimum income, without employment and pension rights. I would ask, if things were to happen to any form of abuse in such conditions, could they also be applied to the provisions of this law, since an amendment which we asked to add the words "in the workplace" was not accepted? At the same time, I would ask – what kind of mediator can be addressed by people who work in these conditions, who violate all possible rights, and they have to agree to everything in order to survive naked? Because if they talk about anything, they can only expect one thing -- to stay without the little money they make in this way, which they provide for themselves and their family. I would like this law, when adopted, to be useful to all these people, but before that, I would like their status to be regulated in any other segment, so that they, if there are elements of abuse, could be referred to the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40882	Thank you. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 9(1) reads: “The employer is responsible for the damage caused by the responsible person or employees by the abuse of another employee of the same employer, in accordance with the law. “ The question arises — how can the employer answer for the damage that the other person has done? Can't an employer be responsible for every employee, can't be responsible for their actions. He doesn't have control over them, he has no idea what anyone's doing at the moment. The employer's responsibility cannot be absolute. If the employer has taken all the legal measures to ensure that the abuse and damage caused by the abuse does not occur, if something like that does happen, what is his fault? What would he be responsible for? I therefore suggested that this position be amended and that it reads: “The employer is responsible for the damage caused by the other employee of the same employer, in accordance with the law, after the initiation of the infringement proceedings with the employer, of Article 13 of this Law. “ The responsibility is borne only by the employer who has not taken the necessary steps to prevent abuse after being informed that there is a suspicion that abuse has occurred. For this type of damage caused by abuse, and the employer did not react, although he knew of it, normally that in this case the employer should bear responsibility. Certainly, an unconscious employer must be a responsible person, especially because he has not taken appropriate measures to prevent this abuse. That is why I believe it is necessary to adopt this amendment, that responsibility is borne exclusively by unconscious employers, those who know that there has been abuse and that damage has been done, and they have not responded at all, nor have they taken any measures to prevent abuse. These employers should and must be responsible for the damage caused by abuse. To repeat once again, the employer's responsibility cannot be absolute, the responsibility should be borne exclusively by unconscious, irresponsible employers who have not responded after notifying that there is a suspicion of abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40884	It's been used 20 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40885	I'd like to ask you one more time, Mr. Novakovic, what about the minister? It's the minister who can accept the amendment. I know, he might be in the building, maybe he's at lunch, maybe in the hallway, but he's not in the O.R. That's what's problematic. So the minister is the only one who can accept some amendment. This is an amendment that must be accepted. Why does he have to be accepted? Because of the position the Ministry has shown in the reasons for the other amendments. Be careful why the government does not seem to accept, he says: “... for the reason that the proposed amendment excludes the employer’s responsibility for the damage caused before the initiation of the infringement proceedings.’; Of course it's off, that's what we wanted. You can't have a saving employer responsible for any damage. Why? Because absolute responsibility cannot be established. You yourself, in response to Amendment Four, which you have accepted, I repeat, you say this, for abuse: “... It is not an objective phenomenon that can be absolutely prevented through the organisation of work, so it is also unrealistic to establish such an obligation by the employer. “ If it is unrealistic to establish an employer’s obligation to prevent abuse absolutely, as you claim, and we agree, then it is even more unrealistic, if there is no absolute responsibility and obligation to prevent it, then you cannot seek absolute responsibility for the damage. It's only when the employer is informed that there is abuse, so he doesn't respond adequately, he can respond. Or if he hasn't taken all the necessary measures, he can answer. If he has taken all the necessary measures and has not been informed that there has been abuse, on what basis do you establish his responsibility for the damage? Does this mean that the state in any area will accept this way of establishing responsibility? Of course not, because it's impossible. The problem right now is that the minister is not here, that you, as the ruling coalition and the Ministry, have an opinion, but you disagree with him yourself, because in the explanation for one amendment, you say one thing, and in the light of the other amendment, you say the opposite. Once again, you say yourself "it is not an objective phenomenon that can absolutely be prevented by working organisation". Then how can responsibility be absolute? He just can't. Please, Mrs. Lakicevic, call the minister, give him a stenogram, stop the work, but this is an amendment that you must accept. Contradictoral will be your law. Are you establishing absolute responsibility or not? You have to make up your mind. By accepting amendments to Article 4, you have taken the view that there is no absolute responsibility, and that is so, but then you cannot prescribe with Article 8, Article 9, and the following members. The law is contradictory, it won't be applicable. Already, some of the ruling coalition colleagues have discussed amendments and additions to the law on preventing abuse. Don't do five times the same job, if you can now with a little goodwill and political wisdom to correct a mistake that's obvious, because you've admitted it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40886	It's been used for three minutes and fifty seconds. The minister is here, and he's about to enter the O.R., but there's also his associates who are going to pass it on to him. At any time, the minister can accept or refuse the amendment. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40887	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. How I understood Article 9. The bill goes in terms of strengthening the legal protection of workers, the one who is the victim of abuse. For what? Of course, this is about general rules on compensation for damages, primarily treated by the Law on Liabilities and the Labour Act. According to the Labour Act, the employer is obliged to compensate for the damage arising from work or work suffered by the employee. But why is the legal position of the victim of abuse improved here? Because it is assumed, in addition to this responsibility by the employer regulated by other laws, that it is easier to charge compensation from the employer. Is that employer who is a lifesaver going to take all the legal measures necessary to avoid abuse, to be able to regress, or to compensate the worker for the damage paid? They will be able to, it will regulate Section 2 which states that "the employer who compensated for the damage caused by the responsible person or by the employee has the right to claim from that person or employee the amount of damage paid". He has the right – means that the employer can, and not the right; it is the good will of the employer, whether he himself will bear directly the damage caused by the employee or assess that he should be regressed from the one who has done the harm. If we were to determine the security or unconsciousness of the employer and whether the employer had taken all the measures prescribed by law, believe that this process of proof would precede this process; it would therefore delay the procedure for compensation for damages, and therefore the satisfaction of the employee who, in addition to being the victim of abuse, has one prior procedure in the proof, i.e. compensation of material and immaterial damages. For these reasons, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40888	Two minutes and fifteen seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Mr. Sarovic, you have no right to a replica, but you have the right to a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40889	Mr. Novakovic, I would really like to ask you, if you need me to read to you a member of the law, it is obvious that Mr. Chikiriz mentioned my name and that he misread my presentation. I think it's clear to everyone in the O.R. that this was absolutely and exclusively focused on my exposure and that's what Mr. Chikiriz said. So, what's this about? If you put this member of the law the way you propose, that means you're assuming guilt. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is an assumption of innocence for each of us until proven guilty. You say, "It's easier to charge than an employer." But you can't charge anything from a security employer, from the one who organized the work in accordance with the law in a way that prevents abuse from working. If that's the principle that you're going to accept in the future, let's look at it at country level, I'm going to give an example. You say – while the worker is in the workplace, the employer's absolute responsibility is for everything that happens to him. You say it's easier to charge than an employer. It may be easier sometimes, but some workers can't even pay for it, let alone charge for insurance. When a worker leaves work, whose responsibility is it that someone will abuse him? Then it's the responsibility of the state. Then why don't you lay down a rule that you charge someone outside of work, that the victim of abuse, in order to make it easier to charge, does not prosecute an individual, rather than prosecute the state, so let the state pay, so let them regress, if possible, from the individual, as you say. It is a concept that is not sustainable, which is anti-constitutional, illegal. So you can't presuppose someone's guilt and say it's hard to prove abuse. You can't ask to prove innocence. Only the UN tribunal does that. There is no other institution in the world where you must prove your innocence. You can't ask employers to prove their innocence. Do you see the situation in Serbia's economy? What about when the demands start, will employers do anything other than prove their innocence? Imagine companies, businesses, not of 10,000 workers, let's go from a hundred workers – how do you think the employer is doing absolute control and how do you think someone's proving he's innocent? How does any employer, Mr. Chikiriz, hope you're a lawyer, prove the negative fact that the abuse wasn't? By delivering the video for the last year from work, all eight hours a day, that someone didn't survive some abuse? How do you prove that fact? Give me one single example and I'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40890	Thank you. I think we've all understood what this is all about. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40891	The amendment to Article 10 is a logical continuation of what we have asked for, therefore, an amendment to Article 4, which you have accepted and an amendment to the article. 8 and 9, which you are not yet, and I hope Mr Ljajic will accept. You have prescribed in Section 2 that employees have the right to protect their employers from the conduct of abuse. We suggested: “Employee has the right to request protection from the employer from the behavior of abuse. ” People, for the tenth time, have absolutely no responsibility. You can't ask for any absolute protection. There's no absolute protection. We're the country where the prime minister was killed, and you're asking the employer to stop the abuse at work, at any time, at every place, from every employee. That's impossible. Prevent the execution of all crimes, prevent the robbery of companies that are privatized by employers, introduce an obligation by the state to prevent it. It's just that it's impossible and I guess it's clear to everyone. I repeat the same story for the third time, and since the minister was not there, once again: The ministry says, when it comes to abuse, "it is not an objective phenomenon that can absolutely be prevented by working organisation, so it is unrealistic to establish such an employer's obligation." That is in response to the amendment to Article 4, which you have accepted. Then you establish an absolute obligation for members 8, 9 and 10 of the employer to protect the employee and the right to exercise protection. That's impossible. If that were absolute, then what do you need after the mediation and everything else? Simply, those provisions wouldn't be necessary. What I forgot last time to answer Mr. Chikiriz – you talked about the general rules for compensation for damages, the Labour Act, the Law on Liaison Relations. This law does not touch those rights, nor can it be touched by law, by any member, or by any amendment. This is an upgrade, these are some additional rights of workers, and this is an attempt to make an interspecies, so that the damage that can possibly be caused by an employee can be prevented at some lower level, that there are no litigation disputes, that there is no claim for compensation in accordance with the Law on Liabilities. There is no force, nor an amendment that can, through this law, deny the right of a worker to seek his rights in accordance with the Law on Liabilities, but one big difference – you, in accordance with the Law on Liabilities, must prove, first of all, that someone has caused you harm, you must prove someone's guilt. This way, if there's an unfortunate formulation left, then there's no such thing as that, no evidence of guilt, no evidence of any damage. How will you prove it when it comes to mental abuse? You will take your word for it and say it immediately – the employer is guilty; it is easier to charge from the employer, so let him prove his innocence. You do not understand the possible consequences of the adoption of the law in this form proposed. I'm very well-intentioned, I hope you'll accept. I hope Mr. Ljajic follows this and will correct a mistake that is obvious. If not, we will definitely see each other in a short time, when they change and supplement the law on the agenda, but the question is what damage you will do to the poor and unfortunate economy of Serbia in that interspace is causing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40892	Four minutes and thirty seconds. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40893	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Without intending to further deepen the debate and to abuse this time, I would pray, for the sake of the public, that the institutes that exist in the criminal proceedings (presumption of innocence, and dubio pro reo) do not interfere with the general principles of compensation for damages regulated by the Law on Liabilities and with the principles of compensation for labour and labour; these are fully separate institutions. And especially not to mix it with the trial in front of the UN tribunal, because there are really no dots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40894	Forty seconds from the time of the authorised representative. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a little unclear how there can be a more adequate solution written in the Bill's proposal, which says that he is employed to refrain from acts that represent abuse and behaviour that constitute abuse of the right to protection against abuse compared to the solution offered by this amendment, which is binding, i.e. It strictly prohibits behavior that represents abuse and conduct that constitutes abuse of rights. If the legislator really wants to prevent labour abuse, the most logical thing is to make it clear that it is "prohibited". Unless it says something is forbidden, it could be interpreted as allowed. Article 5 makes it clear: “Any type of work abuse and work - related abuse is prohibited. ” If we consider this, there is no reason not to write in Article 11(1) - it is forbidden. Otherwise, Article 11 refers to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee. Some employees of employers who are in a position to commit labour abuse are mostly in management jobs, although it does not have to be a rule. As far as abuse of the right to protection against abuse by an employee is concerned, it is something that is very difficult to prove, as it is difficult to prove only abuse, because everyone is well-known in Serbia's judiciary. It is extremely important to say something, both from the aspect of the abuse of work towards the individual and from the aspect of showing this phenomenon to the groups. Repeat who knows for what time that Serbia is a country where unemployment is huge, where employees are left out of work daily and, unfortunately, a large number of people are forced to work black to earn barely enough to feed their families. When we talk about this topic, we need to be aware of the situation in the labour market. Official data from the National Employment Service in March shows that there were 767,418 persons on the record in February, which is about 16,000 more than in January this year. Compared to October 2008, when the economic crisis began, the number of people unemployed on the record increased by 50,010 people. Out of the total number of persons on the National Employment Service's record, more than 12 months at work are waiting 63.81% or 489.753 persons. Most unemployed from 25 to 29 years of age. The highest unemployment rate is 51% in Novi Pazar, Loznica 41.5%, Leskovac 41.4%, Leban 61.4%, Vladic's Han 54.1% and Major's 53.4%. I note that these are official NSZ data. The number of unemployed is much higher because a large number of people do not report to the service. After many years of reporting, some have lost all hope of ever getting a job. Some services take off records if they're late with their application, so they have a criminal deadline in which they can't register, which additionally creates an untrue picture of the number of employees. This data should also be added to the following: around 720,000 people in Serbia live below the poverty line, and the number of poor has first started to increase since 2000. The most endangered are unemployed, especially those over 50 years of age, disabled people and families with children with developmental disorders. The economic crisis in the world and Serbia has reduced the number of seasonal jobs and wages for them, making them more affected by citizens who lived out of it. Also, the major problem with poverty is major regional differences in Serbia. The poorest are the municipalities of Bojnik, Medvedja, Bela Palanka, Trgovište, Tutin, Black Treva, Certište and Landište. In Serbia, fewer than 22,000 people are working, and the number of employees is reduced year by year, while the number of pensioners is increasing to one million. When we look at these catastrophic data, it's no wonder that the soil was created very conveniently that those who are able to hire and decide someone's work and work remains behave, I'm going to use a mild expression, inhuman. I've already said that when we talk about this kind of behavior, we need to look at the abuse of work from the aspect of this phenomenon towards groups, because in fact, the beginning of mass exposure to this phenomenon in Serbia is related to the privatisation process. The interests of individuals or new employers were at odds with the interests of large groups, i.e. employees. Sales contracts obliged new employers to keep employees who did not voluntarily leave work with the social programme for a period of time. It was mostly a period of at least two to three years, in which the employer had no right to fire employees. However, as their interest is always above all else, and Serbia's lawless state has found it easy to achieve its interests. It has joined labour abuse, with the goal of firing employees who represent surpluses themselves. Otherwise, this kind of mobbing, so-called. strategic mobing, it's characteristic of transition countries. This is the most widespread type of torture, which is mostly invisible and hidden, something that is not tangible, so it's hard to prove. All of this makes it the most efficient way to get someone to leave work alone. This phenomenon is not evident only in companies after privatisation. An even scarier abuse has been committed and is being conducted in enterprises that are yet to be privatised. Excess staff are being resolved by literally forcing people to leave work willingly. In this way, the employer is exempt from all legal obligations he would have had towards the dismissed worker, i.e. It's free of severance payment. This is mainly carried out on workers in front of pensions, workers with low qualifications or young workers without experience. However, they are equally abused and very capable, professional, creative young people with a lot of knowledge and energy, who are not easily manipulated, who are not afraid to say what they think and who pose an obstacle to those who are preparing businesses for sale for nothing. The ways in which torture is conducted are different, it's common to everyone that they're extremely inhuman. From an individual point of view, most often it is a full-table syndrome, empty-table syndrome, communication problems, physical separation from colleagues, it is a matter of professional integrity, etc. Unfortunately, there are many examples of mobbing over groups. As many times as I have, I will mention the famous "Health" and post-privitation woodworking factory of pharmaceutical products. For the privatisation of "Health" it is characteristic that it is one of the worst-done privatisations. For three and a half million euros, something worth much more at that time was sold. Stocks alone were worth 10m euros worth of drugs, and bank shares were worth 12m euros; facilities, equipment and land were worth 44.5m euros. The first-time workers who didn't want to leave work suffered a terrible torture. Since the sale contract obliged a new employer that there could be no technological surplus for three years, a large number of unscheduled people suddenly appeared when they came to work in the archives. For years, people who worked in a factory with a renome, such as "Health", who had good profits, working habits, and obligations, have come into the situation to be convinced in the worst possible way to get out of work. Parents whose children were also employed in "Health" were leaving work to keep their children here and to keep their jobs. After an end of three years, it was very soon to announce technology surpluses in “Health”, so that from the former 2,066 employees now in “Health” there are just over 400 workers. Just to remind the Serbian authorities that privatisation is one of the most successful examples of privatisation in Serbia. We can say freely – that for whom, for workers and the town of Leskovac, it is certainly not. On the contrary. There are many examples like this, and therefore the recommendations of the Serbian Radical Party are to define clearly in this legislation, both in Articles 5 and 11, and in all others, that labour abuse is prohibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40896	Seven minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Parliament of Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40897	I'll talk about the amendment, and then I'll use the time of the authorised representative. Thank you. Of course, the abuse of labour is forbidden, and this law clearly defines it, however, it is a chapter that speaks of the rights and obligations of workers, and in this sense obliges them to refrain from abuse at work, and so I understand the fact that the Ministry has not accepted this amendment. But I have to admit, I wasn't encouraged by that. I couldn't believe my own ears when I heard, and I'm dealing with poverty data, that for the first time there has been an increase in poverty in Serbia since 2000. I do apologize to my colleague, but I don't think the citizens of Serbia are as forgetful as you believe. For the sake of being subjective now, we do not assess whether there were more poor people then or now, I will tell you the exact information that tells you that in the 1990s 70% of the people in Serbia were poor, and that in 2002 14% lived below the poverty line, in 2007 6.9%, but unfortunately, after the accelerated growth we had from 2000 to 2007, there was a global economic crisis and there was a rise in poverty again. In order not to convince ourselves about this now, there is a poverty reduction committee in the Serbian Parliament and I urge you to come to the Committee on Thursday, when we will be hosted by a poverty reduction team and present the latest data and facts related to poverty, but also measures by the Government to mitigate the problem of poverty. As for Leskovci, unfortunately, it's my city and yours... Fortunately, it's both mine and your town, but unfortunately, a large number of privatisations in our city, it's true, it's unsuccessful. But I would not agree that Health is the most unsuccessful privatisation. Ask the workers of "Plantage", ask the workers of "Lemind - Tehnomasina", ask the workers of "Letexa". In “Health” is done by these 400 people and I think that every place of work is Leskovec and it is necessary. So let us not criticize those who work, but try to raise those who do not work, so our city will be less poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40898	Two minutes and thirty-six seconds. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40899	Mr. Chairman, I will use the right to replicate. Then I'll do it as soon as possible, from the time of the parliamentary group. Dear counterpart Plassic-Stojanovic, you cited an example of the privatisation of "Cvescara", "Leteksa" and other companies. All of these are companies that haven't worked backwards in years and have been in a very bad state. "Health" worked, and it worked very successfully. The data I've provided is correct. That's what you and I know, and everybody else knows. So, for three and a half million euros to sell something, not to say again, I said how much it was worth at that time, it is indeed a failure and one of the most unsuccessful privatisations in Serbia. You'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40900	Thank you. Of course, it's always worth as much as anyone's willing to pay. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Sharovich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40901	Mr. Novakovic, everything has a price. But to return the amendment to Article 11 submitted by Mr. Milan Avramovic. It is difficult to say why you did not accept it, but I would like to point out to you the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from which perhaps in the best possible way you can see how seriously they worked. It explains: "The amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendment of MP Lidija Dimitrijevic to the same member of the bill. “ We look at the same member of the law, and in an explanation why the amendment to Lidija Dimitrijevic is not accepted – because the solution in the bill is more appropriate. What do you say? That may be a general explanation, then, but you didn't say anything about it. You must state the reasons why this is supposed to be a solution that you have suggested more adequate. This doesn't mean anything. Now let's get back to the amendment. In Section 11, you say: “Employee is obliged to refrain from acts of abuse and conduct that constitute abuse of the right to protection against abuse. “ We asked for a portion to be deleted because it is an obligation to refrain from abuse already prescribed in Article 5. It's a bill of law. In Article 5, you say: “Any type of work abuse and work - related abuse is prohibited. “ It is a general, general obligation, or general prohibition of abuse. In Article 11, you repeat (this repetition is unnecessary) and extend the obligation of employees to refrain from conduct that constitutes abuse of the right to protection against abuse. By accepting this amendment, you would lose nothing, and I think the law would definitely be more precise than this proposal you made us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40902	The used time is two minutes and fifteen seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40903	On behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 which speaks of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee, where I ask that in the proposal the words "or must be known" be deleted. The words “or he had to be aware” should be deleted because such a formulation leads to the fact that abuse can also be committed unconsciously, which according to legal science is impossible because there is neither will nor awareness of the possibility of the forbidden consequences. The abuse of rights with the goal of obtaining is used, according to the current legal science, only by direct imagination. If the promoter does not trust the applicant of the amendment, I recommend that he read any textbook of the general criminal or criminal law as a form of liability. We also recommend a slightly greater involvement of lawyers so that such professional mistakes do not take place in the future. According to the number of rough professional errors in the proposals for all laws, there seems to be too many ministry members who are not doing their job adequately. In the event that the amendment is not accepted, it is necessary to inform all law schools to make appropriate changes in their teaching programmes and textbooks. It cannot be expected that the mobing does not appear, for example, in the vrbački municipality of privatised enterprises when we see that the state itself does at one time and in the Remont Institute Cačak gives the same indication to private people how to move over its workers and release workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40904	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic, to Article 11. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40905	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to supplement Article 11 by adding, behind Article 3, Article 4 which reads: "Employers who abuse the right to protect against abuse are responsible for the damage caused by this abuse of rights. “ If the abuse of the right to protection against abuse seems to be abused which is aware or had to be aware that there are no reasonable grounds for the initiation of the infringement proceedings, and initiates or initiates the initiation of that procedure in order to provide for itself or another material or immaterial benefit or to cause harm to another person, as stated in paragraph 3, it is necessary to add that item 4, which provides for the responsibility of the person employed for the damage caused by that abuse. This amendment is necessary and should be accepted because these abuses must provide for the responsibility of the employee, as provided for in Article 9 of the employer responsible for the damage caused by the other employee of the same employer, with the right to claim compensation for the damage paid by that person, with the right to protection against abuse for the damage caused by the same employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40906	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40907	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read Article 12: "Employers who find out about the behaviour they rightly believe to represent abuse have the right to initiate the procedure for protection against abuse... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I suggested that this formulation be reduced and that it reads: "Employee who learns about abuse has the right to initiate proceedings", without this "belief". For what? Because I believe that if someone submits a report for abuse, he does not bring judgment. It is not expected to be 100% safe, but it is understood that it is believed that abuse exists. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the Government says: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill's solution is more appropriate, because employees who initiate the procedure for protection against abuse cannot at that time be sure that abuse exists.... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” On the contrary, I believe that an employee who reports someone must be certain that there is abuse. If he's not sure, he can't file charges. When an employee reports to the employer that he committed abuse of this after that, they can't wash either the Danube or the Sava. The court may rule a hundred times that it is not guilty, however, it remains a lie on his behalf, on his person, and is subject to objectively irreparable damage when it comes to his business career. I simply believe that accepting this amendment would bring one seriousness into this area would prevent abuse by workers; less by workers and more by workers. Anyone who is dissatisfied with his employer can make a false report and not answer for it. It can simply be called to this legal solution whose erasure I suggest and say – I believed it, and the final thing. I use the opportunity and the presence of Minister Rasim Ljajic to ask him to send one control of the work inspector in the Great Plan and to establish the foundation of claims and allegations that I face almost every day, workers working in Chinese shops and in the supermarkets "DIS", "Pax" and "Coka" in the Great Plan. These workers claim that they are exposed to labour abuse, much more difficult forms than those mentioned here (the case is tattooed and untapped chairs). These workers claim to be inadequately paid, to receive between seven and seventeen thousand dinars for one month's work, from which they fall. This labour inspector cannot help much, however, can determine whether these workers are being paid contributions. They claim most don't pay. Workers of the "DIS Market" argue that after the second shift they often stay up to night, up to two, three hours after midnight, to pack goods and not be paid for. In Pax Market, I personally became convinced, workers' furniture changes faster than the Red Star football club has changed coaches in the last two years. Workers claim that the boss takes them to work, that they spend a month, two days at work, and then the boss says that the episode is over and that they can go home, and he's getting some other workers on probation. So, please determine the facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40908	They were used two minutes from the MP's time. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say I was amazed by the government's explanation for this amendment. In fact, Article 12 says that an employee who finds out about the behavior he justifiably believes to represent abuse has the right to report it. We have proposed an amendment that every person who learns about the abuse has an obligation, so he is obliged to report this abuse on the written basis. If you really want to deal with every type of abuse and abuse, including abuse at work, then you need to establish the obligation of anyone who finds out about the abuse to report it. See what you say in this extremely incoherent explanation: “Amendment is not accepted for reasons that it is possible to establish the obligation of an employee to report behavior... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” "What can be determined by the employee's obligation," what does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. He says: “... Since this obligation should also entail the responsibility of an employee for not reporting such behaviour, even when there are legitimate reasons for this (e.g. Justifiable fear)... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This is genius. I don't know which genius at the Ministry wrote this. Then why not provide in the Penal Code that one who attends, for example, is not obliged to report it if he has justifiable fear? Because fear is justified, the abuser is well - known, so perhaps it is a greater obligation for one who attends to abuse, who finds out about the abuse to report such behavior. What is your goal with this law, to prevent abuse or to say – if there is a justifiable fear, then what does it matter? But, of course, you'll charge the employer for it. There's a question of responsibility here. You, for an employee who knows about abuse, will not determine... I didn't talk about his responsibility if he didn't report it, but at least to establish the obligation to report abuse. On the other hand, you have determined the obligation of an employer who is safestan, who takes all measures to prevent abuse, you have found his absolute responsibility for this abuse and even the obligation to compensate for material damage, assuming he is guilty, so he can prove a negative fact that he is not guilty. Please, Mr. Ljajic, let's get you on board. Here, you won't accept the amendments, but come on, get involved in the debate and say, "We won't do that." This reason you listed is not adequate. I guess anyone who finds out about some negative fact in society is bound to report it. If he finds out about the crime, he has to report it; if he finds out about the abuse, he has to report it. Fear cannot justify anyone in such situations. What does that mean? The essence of this law is to prevent such fear. Fear is what always follows abuse at work, whether it's physical, whether it's psychic. That fear must exist, because if there was no fear, then whoever suffers abuse would probably stand up, try to resist, protect himself in some way. Fear is necessary in every form of abuse and cannot be feared, even if it is justified, to be an apologetic fact, in accordance with the law, which invalidates the obligation of each of us to report the abuse he finds out about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-18-0.u40910	Two minutes and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. This would be the end of today's work, since it's 18 hours. We'll continue tomorrow, Wednesday, May 19th at 10:00 p.m., where we left off, by amendment to Article 13. Mr. Nemanja Sarovic will have the floor. Thank you, Minister, and thank the MPs for their cooperation.
