ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35909	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are now found in the hall, and there are conditions for work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic is otherwise authorized to her parliamentary group and she wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35910	I have a question, first of all, for you Presidents of the Assembly, I think that since yesterday a great Serbian writer, painter and journalist Momo Kapor, I think it would be good to set a moment of silence for the man who showed how it is possible, in the right sense of the word, to be worldly and our great Serbian nationalist, great writer, great painter, man who has truly marked the lives of many generations and will continue to do so. That's a question for you. The next question, is the question addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, regarding the employment of persons with disabilities. On the big door in May, we announced and adopted the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. People with disabilities definitely make up the world's largest minority, so practically about 10% of the world's population lives with disability, that means over 650 million people around the world, if their extended families are added to it, so we come up with amazing numbers of two billion people who live with disability every day. Unfortunately, for the vast majority of people with disabilities around the world and shops and public facilities and traffic, and even information, are mostly out of reach. We've passed this law. New Serbia has insisted on many amendments that would make life easier for people with disabilities. There is also a legal obligation for people with disabilities to be employed. Lately, we have been listening to Minister Ljajic talking about the application of criminal provisions for those who do not comply with the legal provisions, which cannot yet have the character of declarative recommendations, but legal norms. What New Serbia is interested in, since we get a large number of e-mails, calls on citizens, is – what has been done so far and what is the percentage of people with disabilities. We see that in various state authorities, secretaries are being transferred from one place to another. They're taking care of the so-called. Social cases. I think it would be of great benefit to hire those young people, people with disabilities, who are also qualified for jobs that would be responsible and safe. We think we need to give them a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35911	On behalf of the National Assembly, the President's office sent a telegram of condolences to our Lady Kapoor. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35912	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I have two questions. Both questions were addressed to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. We highlighted our EU membership bid on December 22nd. I think that this candidacy as a state obliges us to implement that policy that will bring us closer to that goal. Yesterday, the minister in his government and not any one, although each minister would have to be a responsible person, I think of Minister Jeremic, during his visit to Budapest, conditioned the candidacy very clearly, saying that if Serbia should choose between Kosovo and EU membership, Serbia is choosing Kosovo. That's what we never talked about. This is not the official policy of this country, because the official policy of this country can only be the one that this parliament has declared itself to be behind. We are not surprised by Minister Jeremic's statement, as he normally leads his policy, which is often in conflict with other efforts by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and is often in conflict with the performances of the President of the Republic. We have a problem with that silence, because silence is a sign of consent. It is as if our government has two policies: one which addresses through the mouth of certain ministers a part of the public who is trying to win for himself, reminding of what Milosevic did in the past, by flirting that was characteristic of Kostunica, by sitting on two chairs, and on the other hand, a part of the government that is trying to reform the country. We're interested in how something like that is possible? We ask the government to make a clear statement on this matter. It's the exact opposite of everything our country's official efforts are. First, no one conditions Serbia with such a choice, secondly, a hint of such an attitude. We tie our own hands and feet in a business where so many obstacles await us. We find it counterproductive. Minister Jeremic has no right as government minister, as a citizen, to hold positions that are not confirmed here in parliament, and are neither the positions confirmed at the cabinet's session. Whether the government ever voted, it should have been Mirko Cvetkovic telling us, about such a political orientation that puts a sign of equality between what has been happening in Serbia for the past 20 years, and was directly opposed to the interests of this country that has the right to catch up with the modern world and what the government's foreign minister is doing, which is supposed to change one such relationship. We want the government to make a statement about it. As far as I know, the government has gathered and is formed on a European platform. If this is a conditional European platform, if it is both a Kosovo and a European platform, then the government should ask Vojislav Kostunica to return to the post of Prime Minister and we will have an authentic representative of such a policy. Of course, according to the cowardly policy of Mirko Cvetkovic, another question for him as Prime Minister. Six months ago, the MUP arrested six young people for throwing a bottle at the Greek Embassy building at four o'clock in the morning. The police treated the incident as a cause of general danger. Then, with a complex of incredible circumstances, the event was qualified as an act of international terrorism, and in the end, over a bottle of six young people, who had never been convicted, six students, spent five and a half months in prison. We have an example of two years of destruction of Belgrade defeating the truth that no one was responsible for the burning of embassies, the demolition and robbery of locals, the destruction of vehicles, attacks on journalists, television and radio stations, political parties, representations of foreign companies. What kind of country does the government create for us and what we as citizens, who are considered... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... To support this country's European orientation, we can do it because it is an alternative for us to join those who are worse than that government or to influence that government, to correct it? I ask these two questions to Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35913	Thank you. Mr Radojko Obradovic, who represents the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica Group, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35914	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, for days already in public, controversy is open and how Serbia will develop over the years to come and what growth model will help Serbian citizens to live better. The controversy opened particularly about the arrival of the IMF mission and during these negotiations that were completed several days ago. Apparently, the growth model for several years was that the privatisation funds financed everything they could in Serbia. When those funds went dry, they went into debt. The question is, since those free money on the capital market is going to be less and less, what happens in the years ahead? That is an extremely serious question that this congregation should discuss. It is clear that the success of each economy is measured by the creation of new jobs. The only new jobs are stockpiles for the future, for the budget, for the regular payment of all those fees that follow from the funds and from the budget. According to official data from the Republic Statistics Institute in the last year, the number of jobs or the number of employees in Serbia has been reduced by 170,657 and these are data for September 2008 – September 2009. I guess in the last few months, that figure's over 200,000. Also, according to the Statistics Institute, in the last eight years, the number of employees in Serbia has been reduced by 383,000, hence, from 2002 to today, 383,000 people have been employed in Serbia. Of course, this is the result of increased productivity, resulting in many factors, but it is also the result of numerous problems that exist in Serbia. For the past eight years, Serbia has changed five governments, four privatisation ministers and seven directors of the Privatisation Agency. For these seven years, 2,652 companies were offered for sale in Serbia, according to official data, privatised 1,784 companies, total revenues from privatisation were 2.2 billion euros, but 478 privatisations were cancelled during the same period. What is very noticeable, is that the trend of repealing privatisation is significantly accelerated. In the last month alone, 35 privatisations have been cancelled. The curiosity is that one privatisation that ended in court, and the firm ended up in liquidation, the owner of the firm was freed of all charges because the court concluded that the owner based on his references, qualifications, education and what he did was absolutely incapable of running such an enterprise and as such, the court could not condemn him. The company's ruined, the workers are out of work, the state is out of property, and no one's responsible. Is privatisation in Serbia over? Certainly not, because the most valuable thing Serbia has yet to do is not privatised. Public enterprises are not privatised, no municipal enterprises are privatised. The big question is – what will happen to the property and that the generations of Serbian citizens invested ten and in the years to come? There are the largest public enterprises, there are the most important assets of local self-government. I believe that, after eight years of privatisation, it's the right time to make all the necessary analyses, in this break that has obviously existed in privatisation over the last year and is likely to continue for some time, therefore, the right time to do an analysis. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – has the government made an analysis of the effects of privatisation from the moment the law was passed? What's the plan? What are the results of that analysis, if any? What are the plans for everything that is most valuable in Serbia? This must be the result of a controlled process and in no way should it be the result of a verse and daily need. That's two questions. I'm asking the Prime Minister to answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35915	National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to start again with the question – what about the questions I asked, and to this day I haven't received an answer? Really, either stop these questions or don't bother us to try in some way to help, point out some problems, and those who are obliged to provide us with an answer and don't deliver the answers. I'd just like to remind you of the two questions I've asked, but there's no answer for a long time. I asked the question – was "Morgan Stanley", in the privatisation of the "Duvan industry", for which he received 10m euros, registered in our business register or not? If he didn't, he couldn't do that job, and if he did, he could and the thing was fine. Obviously, it wasn't registered. Obviously, someone has abused the situation. Obviously, the law has been broken and someone needs to answer. I warn you that at the time, the director of the Privatisation Agency was the current Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. Please give me that answer. What does this look like?- I'm sorry. I asked the SKJ property question, to get me a list. I told you exactly there's something about 300 objects. It's over a year, a year and a half, and there's no answer. I doubt that property is being robbed. What does that look like?- I'm sorry. Let me ask you a question about who made it possible for the Saric brothers to put the cocaine smuggling money into privatisation, so I understand the difficult question, you still haven't allocated yourself to who will and how to share that responsibility. These are simple questions and I'm really looking for an answer. I appreciate your efforts to raise the reputation of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I think after the guard and an anthem, the Assembly's rating grew significantly. I'm afraid it's just a form, a form that serves the trick, to fool the citizens of Serbia, because behind that you're essentially who you are. If that's true, I will prove to you again on one obvious case, I don't think there are any MPs who don't remember the issue with Milivo Vicentijevic, called Vicic, who, at 63 years of age, is re-employed at the Republika Srpska Assembly as assistant secretary, and if he didn't have a state exam. According to some rule, Vic couldn't be employed because he didn't have a state exam. It should be appreciated that Mr. Vicentijevic is aware of the fact that he does not have a state exam to pass it. He may have been 64 by now, though, I don't know, but it's all praise. My people, there's still some things wrong and they can't be done retroactively. What is particularly interesting, he also received days off, from February 26th to March 9th, to prepare a state exam. Yesterday we talked about the student standard, we didn't know about this case, but, let's say, we suggest, no matter how many years, when a situation like this shows up, that he has the right to prepare in the Student City, because because of the atmosphere, I mean, he would have been able to handle the material more easily and possibly with some colleagues, because from the time he graduated to this day, many things have changed, so he had to be able to pass this exam properly. The question is raised by the commission to question Mr. Vicentijevic. Based on all this, can we be sure that the commission will be completely neutral, that it will really appreciate Mr. Vicentijevic's efforts? However, you have to keep in mind his year, and that gives us serious concerns, whether in this case the Serbian Parliament will overcome itself, so it will do what is out of mind, out of the law, that you will get over all of this. I expect and demand that you provide us with a written reply if Mr. Vicentijevic passes... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm ending up, so you can let us know that this case will finally be put to an ad act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35917	Of course we're going to work again on the questions you asked, and you didn't get the answer. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Sinisa Stamenkovic, Mladen Grujic and Arsen Djuric. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Saša Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I have also called for meetings of Mirjana Milosevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dragan Injac, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Momcilo Mitreski, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Milan Stegić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Forestry and Water Management, Slobodan Theofanov, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dusan Pajkić, Director of the General Inspectorate, Saša Orlović, Director of Forest Management, Jan Bocanski, Director of Plant Protection and Zoran Jelicic, Director of Land Administration. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35918	Thank you, Madam President. Article 27, point 4, says: ''The President of the National Assembly:'' he is concerned with the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. 'Today, on the agenda, we have a law on game and hunting. One of the committees that should discuss this is the Committee on Environmental Protection. In Article 61. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly states: ''The Committee for the Protection of the Environment is considering the draft laws, second regulations and general rules and other issues in the field of the system of protection and promotion of the environment, conservation and development of natural and creative values, rational use, prevention and removal of pollution of natural resources, as well as other ways and sources of environmental threat, from the field of forestry, hunting, fishing and hydrometeorology. '' Madam President, the Committee on Environmental Protection has not been scheduled and has not had the opportunity to discuss this important law. We have, on two occasions, already warned you of the fact that the Committee is not scheduled when some of the laws are in this area. I find that inadmissible. We also warned you about some other things, and about missing certain points on the agenda, not considering those points, as well as the report of the DRI. We warned a year ago about the way the official cars were used, so then it came to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The whole public of Serbia is talking about it. As president of this assembly, you are obliged to take measures to keep things like this from happening anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35919	Let me inform you that the parent board, the Committee on Agriculture, has submitted a report, and has conditions for working on that side. Of course, he could have considered all this and the committee you're talking about. I'll get an insight into why it didn't happen, but anyway, it's not an obstacle that we can work today. It's not a broken Rules of Procedure. Thanks for the suggestion. Of course, I will take care of the work of the congregation bodies and respect your suggestion, or remark. I'll see what's going on. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I point to Article 141(2), where it is said that competent committees and the Government, if the Government is not a legislator, in their reports, or opinions can be proposed to the National Assembly to accept or not accept the law in principle. Here we have a report from the Committee on Agriculture where it is said – after considering the Committee did not accept the draft law on game and hunting in principle. By the logic of the matter, this bill should be withdrawn or deleted from the procedure. I really don't understand what line you're ignoring what you wrote yourself. How brutal, no matter what, there's only one motto, what's useful to you, what you need, it's got to go, everything else doesn't interest you. Well, then, lift the boards. What do you need the board's opinion if you don't respect it, you who say you're going to move or throw your weight on the boards to make the Assembly worthy, so that everyone feels exalted, with an increased working area, etc. how we can have that feeling if you don't respect what you wrote or maybe I'm misreading. I would ask you to interpret what it means that – the Committee proposes that the Assembly accept or not accept, the Committee does not accept, and you are not interested. Look, it's not the same as not considering, it's a completely different situation. I think the minister, too, if he's holding on to a job he's doing, to his own dignity... (President: Time)... that, despite the fact that the Committee has rejected this proposal to remain in the process, to withdraw it, well, to amend what the MPs have indicated. Don't whisper, Mrs. Comic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35921	Time, Mr. Todorovic. Mr. Todorovic, thank you for your well-intentioned suggestions, which we will consider when we make a new Rules of Procedure. You're absolutely right, there are certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure that should be absolutely precise. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: It should be respected. Don't throw it away, please. I listened very carefully. Article 141 states: "Unless the committees in charge deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions. ''So, even if they don't deliver, especially if they deliver, and the contents, of course, can be different. Therefore, we will certainly bear in mind the Committee’s conclusion, or report, of the Committee’s report. Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You can't do it again, wait, there are others, answered before you, excuse me. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35922	Madam President, I'm reporting in accordance with article 61. Rules of Procedure. I am president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Mr Dimitrijevic of the DSS pointed to an objective problem, which stems from the fact that our Rules of Procedure is not adapted to the way we work. First of all, I think it's important to everyone. Our committee is working very well, it is very active, but the president of the Committee does not have the opportunity to schedule a committee unless there are sufficient number of MPs to provide a quorum in the Committee's work. Since the parent board, in the interpretation of professional services, is not our committee, but it is the Committee on Agriculture, we could not even discuss this law, at least we will not be able to do so, until the Rules of Procedure is amended, so we are not allowed, for example, to make decisions by the majority of the MPs present, which I think is a topic for another occasion, but if we interpret this member extensively, then the Committee on Environmental Protection could discuss everything. I think it should still be fundamentally insightful and keep that debate within the limits of objective frameworks, in which something concrete can be done. On Monday, we will have a committee scheduled for a second topic – a dump in the Great Plan, and then we will be able to discuss this problem as well. I don't think it was possible to organise a committee session the way we normally do. As for the abuses mentioned, I would ask the congregation services not to make it possible. We are not interested in whether it is the SPS or the Vice-President of the Delic Assembly, it is unacceptable for us to use congregation resources in party campaigns. Yesterday, the vice president of parliament used a congregation vehicle in a campaign in Negotin, and we don't like it when lessons are held by those who, on their own, are not ready to comply with the criteria they declare. So, I'm asking the secretary to check that yesterday's assembly vehicle, Audi BG 111-888, was used for purposes that were consistent with congregation functions or exclusively with party functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35923	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35924	Article 27, breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 4. "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly." I think we have here and we're discussing a problem that's more logical than it's supposed to be. We're interested in the Rules of Procedure here, the only criterion we have to work on is Rules of Procedure. Interpreting the authorities doesn't oblige us here. They can interpret whatever they want, it says clearly here, Madam Presidents, in Article 56 – "The Committee on Agriculture, discusses the draft laws, other regulations and general questions in the fields of agriculture, forestry, food industry, water industry, veterinary, agricultural cooperatives and rural development. "It says clearly. In Article 61. "The Committee for the Protection of the Environment," he also writes that he is dealing with this hunting problem. I really don't want to get into what's logical. A lot of things make sense. It says otherwise here in the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the DSS MPs have repeatedly warned you that your documents are not logical, correct the documents at some other time, but in this we only have to manage what is written here, or the competent services have, indeed, deceived Mr. President of this committee, then you should check it out and behave accordingly. Let's talk Monday about a law that's on the agenda today, I don't see what that brings. We have to discuss it when there are laws on the agenda. I'm asking you to keep that in mind and act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35925	Gentlemen, it is undeniable that it is the parent committee – the Committee on Agriculture. A member of 61st says, as regards the Committee on Environmental Protection, that he "is considering the bill", as you quoted, "as well as other ways and sources of environmental threat, from the field of forestry, hunting, fishing and hydrometeorology. "So, from that aspect, from the aspect of the environment. Therefore, we have no dilemma here, although I agree that the Rules of Procedure should be clearer. These are all useful suggestions for the content of the new Rules of Procedure, I thank you. This Rules of Procedure has actually been used before this call, and I completely agree, we will have to, in the coming period, bring in a new Rules of Procedure that will be more precise. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word for it, as advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35926	I'm advertising Article 104. Mrs. Dejanovic, I'd like you to answer the question I'm asking you. I've pointed out correctly to you Article 141, paragraph 2, where, beautifully, it says that the Committee accepts or does not accept the bill in principle. If you're going over this and you're talking to me about how it can be discussed if the Committee hasn't taken over, it's not the same thing. I'm sure you know that. Don't answer me what I didn't ask. What happens, by the logic of things, if the board gave a negative opinion, didn't accept the law in principle, then what makes any sense to argue. My people, what are you doing? I warn you, Minister, because of you, the government will not fall, nor is it the end of the world, but why do you allow it? You will humiliate the congregation with this. Then you're absolutely not interested in the Committee's opinion. Then what would we be discussing here, if the Assembly doesn't pass the law, the government will say, what do we care, by the logic of things. What does that look like? I think that, because of you, you should withdraw this bill and see what the objections are, to act in accordance with these remarks, and thus return the dignity of the Assembly which it itself destroys in this way. You can interpret whatever you want, but this is absolutely the only possible interpretation. Everything you do past this will be tragic for the congregation. I suggest for the next Rules of Procedure, bring one single member – the Rules of Procedure will be applied... It's been two minutes. )... in line with the interests of the ruling majority and the problem ended. Always call that member and there's no need for us to discuss it and talk. Then you don't break...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35927	It's been two minutes. Thank you. I have answered you, the National Assembly will bear in mind the report and contents of the parent committee's report. The law of procedure can only withdraw the promoter. Since it was your second suggestion. First, let's not discuss the law, and secondly, to pull it back, so it can only be done by the promoter, not by the president of the National Assembly... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I said Government, I didn't say.) Don’t throw away, I have the patience to listen and ask that you respect the dignity of the congregation. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35929	I would like to inform all of you, in particular the MPs and the public, that the Committee on Agriculture is at session 25... .
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35930	Please, you've advertised the Rules of Procedure, you can't give any notice, you can only be used by breach of the Rules of Procedure and by argument. Here you go, if you have one.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35931	I will, if you'll allow me to say that an injured member is 79. The Rules of Procedure, and in that sense, as chairman of the Committee, I want to give
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35932	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35933	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. It's simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35934	The contents of your discussion contribute to the fact that the new Rules of Procedure should regulate many of the obligations of the Members, including the presence of the Committee. Unfortunately, this Rules of Procedure is not the most regulated issue, and I fully agree with you here. As a result, it is proposed to the Institute of Deputy Board members and figures already in the law, and I think it will absolutely improve the efficiency of the Committee's work. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35935	Madam President, in accordance with article 101, I would ask you to listen carefully. It may be an accidental failure, but I was very clear. For a month as head of the parliamentary group, I was forced to deal with the case of the former secretary of the Serbian Parliament, whether or not I wanted to. Even during yesterday, I had to comment on her transfer from work in the Assembly to work in one of the ministries of the Republic Government. I think that case was enough for Parliament. I'm an example of abuse. %s %s
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35936	I understand your question, and I said I'd be interested, but I'm also obliged to tell you that the government vehicle use regulation has the right to use the vehicle. But I will be interested, because you are very specific – in what circumstances and whether for the campaign. You'll get, of course, the answer to a specific question. Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35937	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is very easy to give an answer to Mr Jovanovic, it is only necessary that you take from the congregation services a request which, some, 10 days earlier...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35938	Please, you can only advertise the Rules of Procedure, so please focus at this point on advertising the Rules of Procedure and say which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35939	Replica, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35940	Please, you don't have a word, a replica later, and MPs who advertise the Rules of Procedure have the advantage. Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35941	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not advertising, but I wanted to point out that you have injured a member of the 27th President. A moment ago, when you spoke to Mr. Ilic, you said there was a need for new rules of procedure to be arranged. Madam President, you are required to respect the existing Rules of Procedure. Article 27 says that – the president of the Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and the care about the timely and coordinated work of working bodies. Would you let me finish? We have a situation that 90% of the boards that exist in this congregation do not function. Now we've had an appointment of the Finance Committee, it's been cancelled, we've learned that on the spot, because the government hasn't given an opinion on the amendments. On the Agriculture Committee, when we discussed the budget, the moment the ruling majority was due to vote left the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35942	Thank you. I can react and take care of the work of the congregation bodies the moment I learn that there is a need to react. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I point out Article 145(2), the Assembly has the right to withdraw the bill, and says, "The National Assembly, on a reasoned proposal from the Proposer, can decide to withdraw a certain item from the agenda of the session that is under way, until the start of the search and the meeting of the National Assembly, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 Members of Parliament." So what you just said, I'm not going to say it's not true, but you weren't precise enough. We have the right to withdraw the bill. All I was saying in the previous discussions was trying to convince the minister that it was immoral to discuss the law where the board gave a negative opinion, because it totally degrades the Assembly. Then it is completely without any effect of the Committee's work. Although I must admit, this has already been pointed out by many MPs, that the committees have indeed become groundless. I suggested that we return the ruling majority to the MPs, because I am convinced that if we give them back their journals that they will come to these committees, because the Defence and Security Committee has been unsuccessfully trying to hold a session for two days now, but there is no quorum, perhaps today will be because the ruling majority has no MP. You must do something that would allow decent work, which would raise the reputation of this congregation rather than introduce the dictatorship of the majority. You know, between an individual's dictatorship and most of it, there's no difference. And here you are, indeed, conducting terror of the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35944	Time. I thank you for your findings. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: And you agree. ) For the second time, you comment on the exact same content. So it is true that we can withdraw the law, but on a reasoned proposal from the Proposer. That's not there, there's no conditions. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I expect. ) You cannot use the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure to influence the Ministry. You did it once, now you're doing it another time. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: only to offer him money.) Maybe that's what they're used to. ) Please take care of your behavior and do not speak as I speak to you. The word has been made by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35946	I point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 100. Madam President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by not respecting Article 104, allowing Mr Jovanovic to endanger the dignity of the Assembly, and not entering its definition and understanding of the opposition, whether he should place objections to the authorities who at the time of the pre-election campaign, abuse of the state office, political promotion by giving away various devices, vehicles, etc., whether it bothered him somewhere in the north of Vojvodina or in Negotina, it is not important, but the function of vice presidents, who, as you said yourself, have the right to use the car, cannot be associated with the current elections held in Negotina. However, what I want to say to you and the citizens of Serbia, I don't know if there's a word in Serbian, maybe 'hypomerism' is something that could be led to someone I personally saw, with my own eyes, on Friday, for the first time, and I couldn't answer the question that called me, because I was amazed that, as an MP and a woman, a single mother, Mr. Jovanovic entered the 'aud', in front and behind him two huge jeeps, I read to the journalist the license plate tags, there were at least four guys, I was just yelling - people, what kind of state we live in, and how much this security cost! And thus Cedomir Jovanovic deserved to have this kind of fear, that is, resistance to himself, while people starve, without money for the basic needs of life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35947	Time. I'd like your attention to point a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you've reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can hurt me and that here at the session. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35948	Article 104 — A violation of the dignity of the congregation. As you know, Mr. Jovanovic has police security, which he did not give himself, but was given to him by the police minister. When someone tries this way, as I say, not only offends our parliamentary group, by the Serbian Progressive Party, we take every attack on us as a confirmation that we are doing something good, but this is simply an indirect way of jeopardizing security. Now that we've heard that they're still giving around the number of plates of people from the police, please try to stop it. As for that, please, I think the destruction of the Parliament's dignity and that so-called "hold the thief" tactics. We've asked you a specific question, and if it's not clear, I can rephrase it. How many times has Mr. Delic been to Negotin before these elections and how many times will he go after these elections to Negotin? I'm telling you, not once. This is a classic abuse of rights that someone has and the use of something that every citizen of this country pays for the purpose of party promotion. This is much worse, because this is happening by those who are constantly teaching us morals, about honesty, that are in this assembly without going to elections, which I have to remind you, which is now running some kind of anti-corruption campaign. We know there's this government regulation, but it exists for the other vice presidents, so we understand that no other vice president has been in the election, just one. Please inform the public, because we think this is of a very important interest, as it is for the people of Negotina, who should go to the polls on Sunday and see what they are voting for, whether they are voting for those who will use the official 'audies' for party purposes or for some other, too, for all other citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35949	I must remind you once again of article 100, gentlemen of the People's MPs: "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the chairman, if he considers that it is not in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it has been done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done." I'll have to apply the terms of the Rules of Procedure if we don't comply with this provision. Please indicate an injury to the president's actions, if any, directly by the injury done on my part. Mr. Andric, you called again, but two more of your colleagues, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic and Mr. Ostojic, called. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35950	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 104, I believe that, not because of the relationship with me, but because of the relationship with the problem that is very well known to Mrs Tabakovic, given that she is not in politics yesterday, but that policy has been moving for years, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured. In fact, we can be politically different, but I don't think there should be any difference between us in the right to live, so I ask you as Parliament's president to address the BIA, the Ministry of the Interior and the National Security Council, to ask them for information for which I live in Belgrade in 2010. All that Parliamentarian Tabakovic said is true, even a little more people are engaged in my security, except it's not true that these people cost anything to Serbia, because I insisted on it, precisely because I know what kind of country I live in – the one where people are first targeted, and then they're crying after them, at five years later. As they felt sorry for Zoran Djindjic five years after 12 March, I believe that in 2015 they would be sorry for what Mrs Tabakovic is doing now. I urge you to ask for this information, to publish it, and then I will tell you what is the connection between those people who are making me live as a persecuted beast, politics and party of Ms. Tabakovic, and I don't mean Saric, they just funded the party's "Justice" note. (Employees from the O.R. get: )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35951	In fact, you didn't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't interrupt you just because every citizen's safety, including us MPs, is more important than any other subject. That's why I think you should put an end to this kind of content. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35952	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104 - dignity. I couldn't point directly, because others were answering, but this is also direct. It started with Mr. Todorovic. He said that the Committee on Agriculture did not adopt the law, and neither did the Committee on Ecology, you say – it doesn't matter, and you're replacing the thesis, so we came up with the questions that we asked, who used and why the official vehicle in the party campaign. And you answer us – a decision has been made that the vice presidents of the Assembly can use the vehicle. This means that Judita Popovic can use the vehicle when coming from Zrenjanin to Belgrade, but she does not use it, but no one can use an official vehicle to participate in a party campaign, because it is not a congregation job. You see, the leadership of your session since Mr Todorovic's remarks led us to talk now about the security of Cedomir Jovanovic. That's where you violated Parliament's dignity. You gave your word to those we didn't ask, and these are the MPs of this "citizen group," what were they doing with the official vehicle in Negotin? You, Mr. Odalovic, or the authorities should say if Mr. Delic was using yesterday, or someone else, the vehicle of the Assembly? No matter what he had the right to use an official vehicle, he has no right to use it when he goes to the market, when you drive your wife and children to work or to school, or when he participates in a party campaign. Please lead the assembly so that what is asked as a question gets an answer, not to let the story turn the other way and now we're talking about Jovanovic's security. If that's not a state secret, a nice man said, make sure you get an answer from the competent institutions and get it over with once.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35953	On the direct question, I just gave the answer that I'm going to get all the information and I'm going to give the answer. Therefore, I have made sure that there is no harm to the Rules of Procedure and I ask the MPs to behave in the same way. Mr. Velimir Ilic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35954	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, for one reason. There's a talk here about a congregation car. Do you believe that yesterday over six government cars were in the same Negotina? There'll be ten of them today, for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35955	Don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You don't have a word. Ivan Andric has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35956	It's a business thing. I answered because you misread my words. You said I had no right to answer if there was something wrong with the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35957	It's a replica, you have the right to a replica if you think you're not well interpreted on my part.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35958	I think this is the only place where a question like this can be solved. If last week we adopted the Law on the National Assembly and, in your words and words of some MPs, we set out to return the dignity of the Assembly, believe me, for nothing and this guard and this choir and all, if such abuses happen. If we're not prepared for such things to give up and clearly condemn them so that they don't repeat themselves, then you can really put away your guard and close the congregation, because it only spreads anger against this home. So, clearly we said, that man was seen yesterday by a thousand, two, three thousand people. He used an official vehicle for private purposes. I ask you, as a congregation, to publicly condemn such a thing, so that no one else will think of it afterwards. Or maybe it's about his safety, so he has to drive the same kind of car? That's the answer, then. We don't think it's about security, there's no reason, but we're sure it's about abuse. Please, if we are able to talk about the uniforms of the guard, about the abuses of the secretary, let's point our finger at someone who has some real power and thus determine the dignity of this Parliament, not live on the secretaries in your cabinet, because this is the essence of abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35959	Gentlemen, since one of the questions was one of the questions of the Report on the Review of the Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, I would just like to inform you that, on the 25th of February 2010, this report has been delivered to you and that you have it, just look at it in your MP groups, it is probably there, so that there is no notice, the professional service has done its job correctly. All the answers to the questions you asked will arrive. We move to the 8th and 31st points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Variety (Common Principle and Single Search) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting and Proposal for a Law on the approval of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, and before the opening of a common principle and uniform search, I remind you that, as set out in Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group – one hour, seven minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: MP Sinisa Stamenković, MP of the PUPS; MP Arpad Fremond, MP group of minorities; MP Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the SPS-JS; MP Milan Dimitrijevic, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group; MP Vitomir Plužarević, SRS Group and MP Zoran Masic, MP for Serbia. According to Article 142(2) and Article 152(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic advertises the Rules of Procedure and gets the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35960	Dear President, I'm advertising article 100. I have to say I called before you went to the agenda, but I don't suppose you've seen it. In accordance with Article 100, I would like to point out that you have injured the Rules of Procedure in discriminating the MPs here. Some said, in my own free judgment, it may not have been quite in line, but you let it all go, but when President Velimir Ilic spoke, you suddenly interrupted it. Respecting the sympathy you have for New Serbia and, I think, especially for the president of New Serbia, I do not think that you did it because of the president of New Serbia, but because he mentioned the vehicles of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially the vehicle of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who went to the campaign in Negotin, passed through Zajecar and did not want to stop, and there was a flood. I don't think that's why you didn't let Mr. Velimir Ilic say that and that's what citizens need to know. Since some fellow MPs are calling some vice-presidents of the Assembly that they may have used vehicles irregularly, then Serbian citizens should hear and that about five or six vehicles of the Government of Serbia, "under rotation", went through Zajecar, and that they did not stop in Zajecar, the prime minister found it appropriate to go there after ten days to those poor citizens and take 200 mattresses from Simpa. Madam President, that's what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35961	And of course there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The content of the breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be something done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can do a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and of course it wasn't at all trendy, but just by respecting the Rules of Procedure, I interrupted Mr. Ilic because he wasn't talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, as you are now. Please don't put me in a position to apply sanctions, or regulations to sanction your participation in the debate. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35962	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable Members of Parliament, I am pleased to see you again and continue to work on the adoption of new laws in the fields of agriculture, water and forestry. Over the past year, we have had an extremely significant and great legislative initiative, and this year we continue at the same pace. In particular, I must also thank the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, led by Mr. Professor National MP Masic, who is with us to the fullest extent that the laws that are in front of the MPs have, indeed, the form that every law that passes through this respected home should have. At this session, I would like to present to you, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the law on game and hunting, as well as the law on the approval of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties. The new law on game and hunting is a law that has been in preparation for many years. As far as I'm concerned, somewhere, about five years, this law and the solutions found in the law are extremely good because they have the consent and hunting alliances that work in Serbia, as well as the entire professional public that deals with this significant area. More than 75,000 hunters are active in Serbia's territory. These are people who do not only from hobby but also have a significant impact on the maintenance of ecosystems in Serbia, the protection of animal health, not only of the wild but also of the domestic ones, because often diseases can be transferred from wild to domestic animals, and, of course, participate in the protection of the hunting grounds themselves, namely the forest itself, the wetlands and all that we very often like to call nature reserves or natural goods, which have special significance for us and for us, in a global sense, nature conservation. The new solutions in this law are, above all, that the law is in line with the international obligations arising from ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, and in particular the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife, flora and fauna, natural habitats and the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Animals. Secondly, this law provides reliable instruments of protection, controlled use, promotion, rational management of game as a renewable good. Third, this law regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the state as legislator and owner of citizens of state institutions, bodies, businesses and other legal entities and almost all activities in the activities of the Republic of Serbia. Fourthly, the application of the principle of using the principle of pay users, creates material financial assumptions for the protection and promotion of wildlife and its habitats through the establishment of a hunting development fund from which the financing of the jobs set out in these laws will be ensured. The fifth, on the surfaces of national parks and on areas with the majority participation of national forests and forest land, provides for the establishment of a hunting ground for special purposes, in order to implement specific measures of land management, conservation and direction of the development of wildlife populations and its habitats. It is important to mention that in order to rationally carry out sustainable management operations to the game population, the uniformly sustainable development of hunting and the implementation of a single policy in the management of all hunting grounds, this law provides for the establishment of hunting areas, which represent a spatially optimally rounded natural continent with the intention of long-term, rational management of populations of certain species of game. I would also like to mention that the application of uniform management measures to game populations and indirect protection measures is ensured by the creation and adoption of a hunting development programme, which provides financial support from the Hunting Development Fund. In addition, the law on game and hunting provides for the establishment of the Hunting Chamber, as a professional organisation, to achieve and protect the rights and interests of hunters and to promote hunting, in line with the sustainable management of the game population. The paper is also the creation of a Central Database and Catastra hunting ground, with which continuous monitoring will be carried out, to establish a functional living database of importance for game and hunting in general. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the population of savages must be permanently promoted and used. If you hunt more than savages have savages, there will be less and less for our children and we will leave our natural ecosystems in worse shape than we have from our parents. If we do not protect endangered species with our activities, they will disappear. For this reason, hunting can be a weapon in the hands of the wise and in the hands of those who are not wise enough to protect our natural beauty, our speciality. This law shows that we are able to rationally manage natural resources, protect them, edit them and thus protect them. For that reason, I urge you to vote in favour of the adoption of this law. First of all, think about all the citizens of Serbia who want to go into nature and see natural beauty as long as there are, think about all the members of hunting associations, about 75,000 people whose first most important secondary thing in life, and be guided by the fact that the hunting alliances that work in the territory of the Republic of Serbia gave a positive opinion on this law. And, of course, if you have any objections to the law, the Ministry of Agriculture will, as always, consider and be very, very ready to make this law, in accordance with your amendments, even better and more lively in practice. In any case, in the debate in particular, we will be closer to touching certain provisions of the law. For that reason, I wouldn't want any further debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35963	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Ilic, Mr. Zoran Nikolic and Mr. Liliæ have reached out. What's the base of the call? All right, all right. Do the representatives of the committees in charge want a word: the Committee on Agriculture, MP Željko Brestovac, member of the Committee, the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, or the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs Momir Markovic, Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljević, who gave an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration on the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and People's MPs Zoran Nikolic, Zoran Mašić and Milorad Krstin, who gave an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture? Mr. Zoran Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35964	Thank you. In what paradoxical atmosphere is this debate going on and your sentence, which gave the President of the Committee on European Integration the right to declare this law, and to the committee responsible under the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly, which is the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, has neither held a sitting nor given him the right to plead on this law. So it's not good when the debate on this law starts with this many violations of the Rules of Procedure. I must conclude in the beginning that the greatest responsibility, if not the only responsibility, is yours, Madam President of the Serbian Parliament, because, indeed, by creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, you have allowed this debate not to begin in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the way this law should be treated and deserved. Speaking of hunting, I was taking the subject of the Hunting, I think, in 1988 at the, unfortunately, late Professor Lavadinovic. The people of the profession, and I guess those who wrote this law know who Professor Lavadinović was, and I'm really proud that I had the right to take that exam with him. The first question, out of 50 of us on the subject of Hunting, was the socialist and self-government view of the hunt. This was a very important issue in which the following thing was identified – that before the introduction of the socialist system, hunting was the privilege of exclusively privileged and rich categories of society at the time, and that by introducing socialism, and especially self-government socialism, it became not a privilege, but the right of the widest layer of the population. If you weren't ready to confirm it on the exam, you'd be dropping on that exam. It is this law that goes in the direction that hunting becomes once again the privilege of those rich, and that what is based on, I say, and the tradition of Serbian hunting, that a large number of people are involved, especially in the rural population, therefore, something that is passed down from knee to knee, this law that they are left without the possibility and the right to participate in hunting in the way they did it. I do not dispute the right, but I support the right and obligation of the state to establish this area, to find this delicate relationship between the country of an ancient one, which has both the right and the obligation to regulate this area, but also the hunting associations, or the hunting alliance of Serbia, as a roof organisation, and to manage hunting associations and, above all, to organise this area from the point of view. I'm saying that's a delicate question, because it's always a delicate question when the state enters the vaults that are exclusively professional and based on science, but also on inherited practice. I don't think this law has found the best balance and I voted against it on the Agriculture Committee. We will see that at the end of the debate, we will vote as a parliamentary group, depending on and on the will to adopt certain amendments, which the DSS Parliamentary Group has also proposed, as well as other political parties sitting in this parliament, and on this, we will also make a final decision on how we will plead on this law. Why did I vote against the Agriculture Committee? I would also like to say here to inform the public, because on the Committee on Agriculture, where this law has not been supported, there has been an unusual scandal and, Madam President, you are responsible for this scandal. Now I'll tell you why. The committee was also attended by the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, Professor Zoran Popovic, who informed the Committee that, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, he worked on this law and was satisfied, I say, with the result achieved, but that there is a need for certain amendments to be made in some members and that he has made amendments to correct the law. When asked to whom he handed over his remarks, or amendments, we received the next answer. I asked that question because I know it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35965	It's been five minutes, but you're done. I won't interrupt your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35966	It's about your responsibility, so allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35967	That's why I won't interrupt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35968	The scandal consists of Mr Zoran Popovic, president of the Hunting Union of Serbia, submitted the amendment only to parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition and to you personally, but you did not forward it to opposition groups and there is your responsibility, which is the best possible way to talk about the relationship between the competent ministry and the hunting union of Serbia. For good pay, and here I inform the public that the President of the Hunting Union has paid more than 200,000 dinars, for his function and good wages, the Hunting Union of Serbia did not defend the interests of hunters and hunting associations in Serbia, but was very willing to give in to all the demands proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35969	Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have singled out my opinion and since it was logical that the Committee on Agriculture did not adopt this law, that the law should be withdrawn, and since logic, this is evidence, is not the strong side of this Parliament, then we will discuss this law. In this law, you found a way to sell hunting grounds. Hunting remains literally something that will cross from the hands of hunting associations into the hands of tycoon, etc., remains with this Serbia and these Serbs, you have not yet managed to sell it, so that owners, various tycoons, mostly foreign to us, and various Sarics, those who are called Chume, who are named Cane- Frog, who is the last name Miki Kostic, who have already bought the land and on that land will be able to form hunting sites, determine how long, when and how, possibly, we will be able to go out into the hunting ground. I'm not a hunter, I don't do this job, but I have friends of hunters who are lovers of hunting, of game, of nature, and that means a lot to them. I'll remind you of the famous ministerial hunts of some ministers from the Bulldozer Revolution, when they went to tractor trailers, with strong lights, with three or four rifles and killed anything they sat on a fly, or at gunpoint. I remind you that criminal charges were filed against them, so it couldn't, because he was a minister of agriculture, I think, and then he stopped being a minister of agriculture, but the criminal application wasn't activated. It did not come to life to argue. How could he have the right to kill at night, on a farthest couch? You've just been told. In 68 and 69, they allow you to continue to form these insanely diplomatic, non-diplomatic, hunting, semi-political hunts, and to remind you of the show, and to have the right to take their friends out hunting. What he's going to kill, whether he's going to kill, and how much he's going to kill, it doesn't matter at all. If, by any chance, you forgot the name of this minister, to remind you, Mr. Minister, to remind Minister Ivica Dacic, his name is Dragan Vesenov. With four rifles, two tractors, I don't know how many killed deer, in the middle of the hunting grounds they caught him in the middle of the night! Let me move on to these two members, Article 68. "I hunt protected game is allowed to fire at a time when hunting is prohibited, in order to prevent the occurrence, prevent the spread and control of infectious animal diseases, in accordance with regulations," etc. Given what Branko Ćopić said, that I know you, I'm sure you'll find the opportunity to declare, possibly, part of the hunting grounds or even the hunting grounds infected, and then you go with the hunting rifles to shoot off the game to protect the rest of the game in other hunting grounds. It happened, I don't mean you, Mr. Minister, but with those other ministers when they were sitting on the chair you're sitting on right now. You've been legalizing something that's been called poaching since there's been a hunt. Article 69. Hunting without approval, he says: "The gamer can be hunted without approval only in the event of a direct threat to the lives and health of people or a direct threat to the property of legal and natural persons. ''Then some Cole, or some Chume, or some Charic, will say, 'the rabbits multiplied, and peeled off two apples, two apples, and then you will organize along the way, of course, rabbits and deer and deer, and all that comes upon the fly. I remind you that this law did not regulate a very important question – the ice-fed bird singers were killed and exposed abroad! I'm sorry, I can see the time is running out. Let me just finish my sentence. (President: finish your sentence.) )......................................................................................................... Because the Italians wanted a pâté from the tongue of the Nightingale. Now, that's what those who sat in your seat gave them, and with these two members, you allow them. I'm asking the minister to answer me. I thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35971	The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35972	I thank you, honourable presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, by taking note of the list of amendments, unfortunately, I could not find any amendments submitted by the DSS Group, so I would just like to inform Mr Nikolic that you have not submitted any amendments. We don't know what amendments we're going to discuss and whether we're going to adopt some of the amendments that you've submitted since you haven't submitted any. As for the other findings of the honourable MP from the SRS Parliament Club, hunting grounds are not sold. The law doesn't say that hunting grounds are sold or betrayed. Hunting is based on competition and is given to certain hunting associations based on competition. It was in principle, more or less, practice and so far, by making the whole process far better and more clearly described and far stronger and higher criteria for hunting sites. The second thing, absolutely insanely or diplomatically, is not defined in law. The members you called for, in that sense, Article 68 and Article 69, say the following. The essence of Article 68 is that: ''I hunt protected game is allowed to fire at a time when hunting is prohibited, in order to prevent the occurrence, prevent the spread and control of infectious animal diseases, in accordance with the rules governing veterinary care. '"I don't know if you've ever come across an angry fox. I can tell you it's not a pleasant encounter at all. Ask every farmer what's going on in that case. Of course that man must have a chance to defend himself somehow. Also, I don't know if you've ever talked to farmers whose pack of wolves flew into the barn and just like that, partying because wolves often kill not only because they want to eat, but also because of parties, slaughtered half a flock of sheep. For this reason, there is Article 69, which says: ''The gamer can be hunted without approval only if there is a direct threat to the lives and health of people or a direct threat to the property of legal and natural persons. '"What is also very important is that in either case, the inspector must be informed. It can't happen that it's done so arbitraryly by someone and someone's pleasure. I think it's important to mention that a sanitary gunshot can only perform a person who has an official license to do so, and that's a hunter. It's very hard for a poacher to be some of the prominent or unreputable businessmen, and to do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35973	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35974	Replica, he misread me. Then, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister, I didn't come across an angry fox. I said don't go into hunting grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35975	Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35976	Article 104 and Article 27, etc. I didn't run into an angry fox, but I was running into angry ministers, I was running into angry politicians, since these crazy diplomatic hunts I mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35977	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so you can't go any further. Mr. Minister, please proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35978	We found only one amendment to the DSS, so I apologize to the DSS MPs' club.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35979	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35980	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I'm surprised, Mr. Minister, that you use such expressions. You say wolves often attack sheep or other animals and do it for fun. I'd really like you to explain to the MPs how wolves do it for fun? I believe they're working on instinct, but maybe you know more, so I'd like you to give an explanation. As far as the party's concerned... (President: Mr. Todorovic, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The topics you have, please, you can take a break with the minister. )......................................................................................................... It really doesn't make sense what you're doing. Why don't you let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35981	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35982	Thank you, Madam President. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted exactly 13 amendments and all 13 have been seduced at the same time. If you've dealt with these amendments seriously, you've had to see them. What you said first, that you didn't see any of them, and then one, shows how serious you were about this. For the sake of the public, 13 amendments were submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35983	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35984	MPs have given amendments, not parliamentary groups. I apologize on behalf of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35985	Mr. Zoran Mašić has a word, in his own opinion. Isn't that right, Mr. Machine? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35986	At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, I held an opinion within the framework of the principle debate on the draft law on game and hunting. The first, essentially, reason is, above all, certain principled objections that I made in the context of the debate being conducted. They primarily referred to the definition of general interests within this bill, then, hunting organisations, again, as proposed, the importance and way of setting up the Hunting Chamber, its tasks, and in particular I had objections to the planning documents that are foreseen by the adoption of this bill, above all, as regards the hunting development strategy, the hunting development programme and the hunting base, but certainly also to the transitional and final provisions that are defined as they are. I will certainly elaborate these concrete remarks in the context of a further plenary debate, so I simply don't have enough time. But this was a few remarks of the essential nature that were presented in the context of the debate. What also motivated me to set aside my opinion, to give me an opportunity as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for many years, and in this assembly session, it is a desire that, even though I have already said so today, I should remind the MPs, members of the Committee on Agriculture, that they regularly come to meetings. Unfortunately, several members of the Committee have not appeared for a long time, and it is particularly regrettable that they are representatives of the ruling coalition, and that, above all, interferes with the work of the Committee on Agriculture. I am trying very hard, personally, to make the most of the decisions by consensus, to discuss well, and above all for the interest of agriculture, which is, I say, one of the most important economic branches in our country, that we have unique views, but here, in some situations, there is still an understanding of opinion, which just confirms this bill, which is essentially well-conceived. Most of the provisions that are regulated or that will be regulated by this new law are good and quality. It will advance both hunting economy and game and anything else that is tied or regulated by this law, but simply there are certain objections. However, the ruling coalition cannot expect MPs, oppositions, aprioriers to support just what is proposed, so my warning is to take care of the regular arrival at the sessions in the future. The other thing I want to say here, too, is, at the same time, I pray first of all to you, the President of the Assembly, but also to all others, the relationship of the media to the work of the Committee on Agriculture. I regret to say that yesterday there was no media representative, except for the Service of Informing the National Assembly. Yesterday, in addition to discussing the draft law on hunting and game, we also discussed issues related to anti-urban protection. I ask media representatives – would they show up if, God forbid, he hit the city and did enormous damage, and the debate was in the sense of pre-warning certain problems that exist in the Hydrometeorological Institute and that should be resolved in the next period. Generally, the public service journalists, they haven't appeared at the Committee on Agriculture for years, and I don't think that's good for our public, that's what the Committee said yesterday. I gave myself the right, just today, to put it out as president of the Committee and to warn everyone, because the situation in our country's agriculture is very difficult. Farmers are rebelling in many places, protesting against state policy... Mr. Machine, time. Finish your sentence. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, but I just don't think it's right not to inform them, and there are people in this house who want to discuss agriculture, because they want its progress and prosperity. Thank you. I'm sorry about the overrun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35987	Thank you. Do any of the other MPs on the committees want their opinion? Yeah. Mr. Myalyevich, please. Thank you. Do any of the other MPs who've singled out on committees want a word? Yeah. Mr. Myalyevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35989	On the Committee on European Integration, I have issued an opinion on this law, I believe that it is not well-defined and that there are some illogicalities. Given that yesterday afternoon the home Committee of Agriculture did not accept this law, it means that there is a very serious professional reasoning, professional reflection, and that some things should be fixed, and then, with a complete bill of law, come before the National Assembly. This is, let me say, a slightly more brutal form of pushing the law into congregation procedure. We are bothered by certain items, such as the formation of the Chamber. The chamber is just another name for another agency. We think it's "insinuation" and that it's hiring some new personnel, so they don't lose their jobs, to new jobs. Of course, you make a very serious and lucrative business out of some tradition and similar hobby-variants, because 95% or 90% of those 75,000 hunters deal with this hobby, and most likely in the future because of the acquisition of this hobby, they will not be able to deal with the hobby, but only rich people will do it. There are also some termological innovations that you cannot give up, which is that, for example, you gave up – in the work of creative workshops dedicated to hunting policy and hunting legislation, you and you participated. What kind of workshops are these? Are these metallurgy, carpentry workshops, psychological, psychiatric workshops? Aren't there working meetings, professional meetings, symposiums on professional topics? What kind of workshops? It's really incomprehensible. What does this mean? "Anger Fox" or "Hungry Wolf", "Fun Do" do what they do, that's already explained by Mr. Todorovic. I don't just know if there are any dirty rabbits running into fruit trees, so they gnaw the bark out of those trees?- I'm sorry. I want to ask, when such vermin appear, what should we do? That farmer who's at risk, does he have to call and wait for a commission to come out, figure out how many foxes are more or less pissed off, then come a hunter or to organize a hack to get the fox killed, or does the farmer have the right to protect himself in a slightly more direct way? What really affects me as a very serious man, of course, and as a politician, but above all, as a man and a citizen, and as a resident of a Serbian country, is that in several members, as well as in the explanation of this bill, you are only counting the AP Vojvodina, and when it comes to autonomous provinces, you speak only in unity. I found nowhere to speak in plural, and I found no mention of Kosovo. What's that supposed to mean? That the Serbian government has given up Kosovo and Metohija and that in a direct, subtle manner, it tries through its ministries and proposed legal solutions to let us know that it has given up Kosovo and Metohija, and that we will worry only about what is on the territory of Vojvodina?- I'm sorry. Be kind, speak in the plural, count Kosovo as our territory, and when we really get back there, in the fullness of your statehood, about that then. Don't give up Kosovo and Metohija in such a subtle way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35990	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35991	Thank you. I'll start from your last finding, not the first. As you can see, nowhere in any member is there when it comes to the autonomous province, the AP Vojvodina or Kosovo say. The fact that you pulled out, that you're just talking about the AP Vojvodina, is probably your point of view which autonomous province is in Serbia and which is not. In my view, both are here and in the Constitution, the preamble defines both autonomous provinces as the constituent parts of our Republic of Serbia. Legally speaking, when it comes to the right of the province, you're always talking in unity. As far as the workshops are concerned, seeing as you're not inclined to visit anyone, I can tell you that it's a workshop organised by the experts of the FAO, who came here to do it, to help us prepare the law. As for the findings of the angry foxes, of course no commission should appear to determine whether the fox is angry. I don't suppose you've ever met an angry fox, I've had many times, I can tell you, and if you know anything, you and the honourable MP who previously discussed the behavior of wolves will know that wolves, just like I said, are partying, they do. Just like it happens when a hunting dog escapes your boxing, parties go into a henhouse, doesn't eat any chickens, but strangles them all. That's what wolves do. It's their instinct and they do it for fun. What's also very important to mention again is that this law has the consent of all hunting alliances, the written consent, that's the law that I said couldn't be found before the government until it got the explicit written consent of all the hunting alliances, because we worked very, very closely together on the adoption of this law. This is a very important law. As far as the Committee is concerned, I absolutely agree with the MP, Mr. Masic, the responsibility for those who did not appear that day, and if you look at the way it was voted, you will see that four MPs were abstained, one was against it and the five were in favour. In doing so, there was no question at any time about the expertise of writing this law, but the question of principles was raised, in which way MPs should refer to the resolution committee dealing with agriculture here in the Assembly. And it's also very important to say, and this is that this law is really done so that 75,000 hunters, who are currently engaged in this sport, hobby or whatever you want to call it, are satisfied and that they could continue to do it in an adequate way and in line with the nature of diversity, the protection of ecosystems, human health and animals being done in the right way, and this is according to the latest and most advanced norms that apply to us and in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35992	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Myaljevic, there is no basis for replication, only it was clear, no offense whatsoever. Mr. Christin has a word... Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35993	I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I urge you, Madam President, to warn the minister that he is in parliament and that his relationship with the MPs is appropriate in the way he should communicate. As for Mr. Minister, whether wolves or other animals are doing anything fun or not, I would ask you to consult experts on this matter. I hear you've had a lot of encounters with angry foxes. Looks like some of you got bit, and that's obviously a problem, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35994	Mr. Todorovic, I'm warning you. You can't insult the minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35995	I accept your warning. Mr. Minister, you need to know one thing, parties only kill people, animals don't. They have instincts. That's what you should have learned, and unfortunately you didn't. One of those people was your predecessor, Dragan Vesenov, who was caught several times or ten times in perjury. He hasn't been processed to this day. Because it belonged to DOS, because you're allowed to do anything, you can do anything and remain unpunished. Unfortunately, there's this unfortunate accident that he's connected to the vehicle he's been in, and he's talking about you the best. You have, I have noticed, the manner in which you try to misprove them in your address to MPs, and unfortunately you have not shown any knowledge and other qualities that would give you the right. The very fact that you have gone beyond that, although the Committee has rejected the bill in principle, you are discussing it, speaks enough about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35996	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35997	I'm truly sorry if I hurt you in any way. As far as I'm concerned, I agree that there are even people who do it for fun, but fortunately, we live in the country that these people who, for fun, do kill, usually find themselves in prisons what we do, and by some, of course, they are abroad in prisons for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35998	Mr. Milorad Krstin. I apologize, Mr. Krstin. Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević has the advantage of advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u35999	Article 104 - dignity. Mr. Minister, I think you've got the debate on this bill in the wrong direction. Really, we didn't mean to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36000	Mr. Myaljevic, the Rules of Procedure can hurt me, not Mr. Minister. Please, you can't speak any further if you have no arguments for breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I've made some mistakes in the procedure somewhere, and you're advertising it, and it's the only violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Christin has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I have issued an opinion on the draft law on game and hunting... (National MP Dragan Todorovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36002	Mr. Krstin, you already got the word before Mr. Todorovic answered. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36003	So, on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs, I have issued an opinion on the proposal for a law on game and hunting, but I would have to present some facts, that the citizens of Serbia know. How's the Agriculture Committee doing? Of course I'll say why I've singled out my opinion. Madam President, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, it is evident, and here I am in more terms in this building and more mandates and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I have not noticed that so many other media are ignoring any committee, as the Committee on Agriculture ignores RTS. I can't understand that the ruling majority is unable to secure the quorum, but I do have one finding, one conclusion, which is why I'm convinced I'm right. You must make one survey among those four MPs from the ruling majority who are not coming. Whether they do not come because they do not want to come or are busy or not because Masic, who has betrayed the built-in Serbia, is now a member of the SNS. Let us ask ourselves whether this is the main reason why we do not have the media and the "public service of Serbia" and why these MPs do not come from that majority. All right, let me get to the point where I've given my opinion. Mr. Minister, I've issued an opinion starting with a member of the 9th and that's the Hunting Chamber, all the way to Article 15. You know, over a number of laws, most have decided to form an agency with each ministry. Here, we've learned that the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia has 200, 250 thousand salaries. So will that future director of the agency. Now this is where the Hunting Chamber is formed, and you as a ministry, and as a minister, you have great authority over this law. There is no need, for the sake of saving, although it is stated here: "For the establishment and beginning of work, the Chamber of Funds is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. '"To begin with, but I'm afraid it will continue, look here who is doing all this chamber and what is the number of people. The Chamber has a assembly, a board of directors, a supervisory board, a chamber body that decides on the issue and withdrawal of a licence, an Ethics Committee and a president – it is a massive apparatus, who will finance it all. It is further said: ''The Chamber shall obtain funds for the work of membership fees, registration fees, fees for the issue of licences, fees for the issue of copies of records, gifts, legacy, donations and other sources, in accordance with the law. ''My remark, that's why I singled out my opinion, is because of these few members referring to the Hunting Chamber, for a simple reason, because it's working everywhere to cut expenditure from the Republic of Serbia's budget, expenditure from citizens' pockets, so unfortunately this time I don't agree that this hunting chamber must exist. Because for the establishment of the chamber, Mr. Minister, conditions have not yet been met. The Republic of Serbia has not passed regulations determining the establishment of professional chambers. If you bring it in, the government proposes through the Secretary-General, I agree that there are chambers. Now someone else is gonna build, I don't know, a tourist chamber, it's not gonna be an agency. I understand, and I would like you to explain this to me, but I am telling you, as far as I know, the Republic of Serbia has not passed a regulation laying down the establishment of professional chambers. Whether it suits someone now or not, but that's the way it is. I will continue my presentation, when we speak in principle, in front of my SRS MP group and I will say a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36004	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36005	Thank you, Mr. Kristin, for always a constructive debate. What's important is to say that there's been a tourist chamber for five years, as far as I can see, so it's already been established. The hunting chamber is a professional association, not an agency. It is normal that only for her to start working, and that is defined by law, funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The chamber is not a body with the government, in the administration. All revenues and expenditures are independent of the government after the establishment. They are provided, as you yourself have said, from membership fees, licensing, etc. The chamber has a structure defined by international norms. That's why it looks like it. It's a body that deals with hunters, hunting associations and has nothing to do with the state, except that the state passed this law and defined by the law that they should establish that chamber. We will, of course, help them, in the interest of 75,000 hunters who are working and engaged in this sport, hobby on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your question, because it was very important to define this to know that the Hunting Chamber will not have any expense in the Republic of Serbia's budget after its establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36006	Mr. Todorovic, I apologize, between Mr. Krstin's parliamentary curiosity and your need to advertise all along the Rules of Procedure, I have indeed made a mistake and given the word to Mr. Minister. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36007	Madam President, you're re-tripping some subject and some conjecture when it comes to me. You've made some wishes before, now my needs. I'd like to ask you to put that area aside, because if I tell you everything who knows what's going to happen. Take care. First of all, between what you will do, whether on the basis of a need or something else, you will do only one thing – stick to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure specifically says that when an MP asks for a word by the Rules of Procedure to be given the word immediately. I would have had so much to tell you when it comes to your relationship with the Rules of Procedure, MPs and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you were taking care of the Rules of Procedure, you wouldn't say what you just said. Article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accurately define and say: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly shall apply to all other participants in the sitting, in addition to the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. ''So, Mrs Dejanovic, refers to both the minister and anyone else who participates in the work of this assembly, so it is not true what you said that only you can violate the Rules of Procedure. You most often violate it, it is true, but it can be violated by MPs and other participants in the work of the session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. When it comes to you, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you best to find better advisors, because you have advisors who are unable to provide you with information that the MP's group has given you as many amendments to the bill. And, one more thing, there are different laws between humans and animals. For animals, it applies, among other things, this, and for people from criminal, criminal to all other laws. It seems that someone and that difference should explain to you, because you're using certain things and expressions that are only suitable for humans, and they're not animals. Let me remind you that some of the animals are due to the traits they exhibited... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They were getting awards just like the people... (President: Can you limit yourself? )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, well, I'm trying to educate a little minister, it won't hurt him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36008	You don't have a word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36009	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make suggestions from the Members of Parliaments of the SVM on the proposed laws relating to agriculture. We also have some questions about agriculture, so I'd like to bring some of our suggestions on the work carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. To move forward, as far as the Law on game and hunting is concerned, we all know that the basic reason for adopting this law is the need to address certain problems and shortcomings identified in the present application of the Hunting Law and to improve its solutions. An important reason to pass this law is the unsatisfactory state of the game population, as well as the general interest in the Republic of Serbia. The current situation, among other things, is the result of the inconsistent and incomplete determination of the state by matters of property over game, property and legal problems, arising from the rights of game owners and property rights in the areas where game breeds and breeds. In our opinion, the population of savages must be permanently improved and used, i.e. to manage them in accordance with the overall national, development policy and priorities, national developments, objectives in line with the level of socio-economic development. This law, compared to the current solutions, clearly shows its own form over game, state, and the head of state property over game property is the Ministry responsible for hunting activities. The application, often and inapplicable plans, highlighted the need to find suitable solutions for game and habitats, and thus more appropriate management of game populations. We believe these important issues are resolved by this law. And what we consider to be very good and important is that the writing of this law was attended by representatives of the Hunting Union of Vojvodina and Serbia and representatives of the province government. We consider that practice good and we will vote in favour of this law. Now let me move on to specific questions. What we are not satisfied with and what we consider to be excessive and unnecessary is a disposal fee. The exorcism fee is a kind of tax that's existed a long time ago. It is governed by the Water Act in the Republic of Serbia. Contributions are being transferred to the province, i.e. the state has asked the Duke of Vojvodina to raise funds and invest them for agricultural purposes in Vojvodina. Unfortunately, in these difficult times, this tax is very difficult for agricultural producers, and therefore we find it interesting to follow the consumption of the collected funds. It is important for us to spend these funds in the most functional way in favour of the manufacturer. The importance of irrigation in Vojvodina, we all know well, is caused by the future of the survival of agriculture. It's very difficult in a crisis where we find ourselves making up for what we've missed in the last 20 years. We know that the citizens of the Vojvodina pay taxes regularly, and this should be taken into account in the redistribution of funds. According to current laws, farmers do not have any opportunity to pay these compensations and to cancel their irrigation fees. So I ask you, what can this country do at a time of crisis in such specific cases? We have professionalized agriculture during the global economic crisis. It's all paid. Every year we have new regulations, a renewal of registration, prices going up. The agricultural producer pays for the catastra solution, disposal salary, PIO salaries, health care, various taxes. He's the only one who's still not paying for air that's breathing. I ask – what can the state do in concrete cases? How can the Ministry of Agriculture, in times like this, make life easier for farmers? Also, we're dissatisfied with the position of anti-building protection. In fact, we know that at the Hydrometeorological Institute of Serbia, rationalisation is being prepared, which strikes the sector most against the city. For 2010, not enough anti-urban missiles have been ordered, so I'm interested in what the Ministry of Agriculture intends to do about it and whether it wants to help in this case at all? I know that we need to work to ensure that the producers secure agricultural land against natural disasters, but, however, I think that there is a need to preserve the anti-urban protection system, because if there is an accident, the compensation for the damage of the agricultural producer will be obtained, but there will be no products for sale, for export, there will be no State benefit from it either. As a third problem, we raise the problem of health insurance. The average agricultural land has a holding of agricultural land, the payer of the PIO and health care, and then gets a health book by 2010, so the whole family gets on the basis of the payment. Since 2010, some family members have not received a health book, i.e. They are not secured, for example, if they have agricultural land in their name, at least one morning. In the Ministry of Health, there is an instruction on the health insurance of agricultural producers. Knowing that there is an extremely good co-operation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, I urge you to take certain steps in this matter and address this problem together. Finally, I would like to say that SVM MPs will support the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, and not only these laws, but also those that are in some way related to Agriculture, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State measure of catastras, which is essentially one technical law, and the Law on Geographical Origin Marks. We consider these laws good and beneficial for our country and for our farmers. SVM MPs support these laws and will vote in favour of the proposals, and I also expect your answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36010	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36011	I thank you, Mr. National MP, for asking questions. First of all, I have to say that, as you know, and once and for all, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but directly corresponds to the Secretariat of the Government. As far as anti-urban protection is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture has so much jurisdiction to subsidise with 40% of the insurance premium against the city. It is an extremely good way to help farmers, in fact, to almost double the cost of insurance for this expenditure. As for the other issues related to compensation, in this case compensation for this disposal, I can tell you the entire genealogy of problems in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but above all to tell you that the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia for 2010 reduced the fees by 23% in the territory for which we are responsible. As for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, I know, since I was present, that the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina has received the Association of Farmers and has advocated the solution to the problem. The Management Board of the "Voda Vojvodina", which is responsible in this regard, proposed to extend the payment period by the end of 2010. In fact, the whole problem is essentially due to inadequate billing, in fact, one year has not been calculated, and then the accounts arrived at the same time for both 2008 and 2009. Suddenly he arrived to the farmers an account that was very large. If it is known that 2009 was the year in which the prices of agricultural products were really very low, then it is a big problem for farmers to pay. A compromise solution has been found and the process is currently under way, to allow farmers to pay for 2009 by the end of 2010 and to allow them not to pay heavy interest during that time. That's it. As far as the other questions are concerned, I couldn't talk about those things that aren't in our jurisdiction, but I can tell you that as a condition for obtaining subsidies, there's no mention of health insurance anywhere, never at all. So, only PIO and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36012	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36013	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid this law, which is now on the agenda, the law on game and hunting, does not create any problems again, that an organization that may have worked best in the state, the Hunting Association, does not destroy or destabilise. That's very important to us. After this situation in the military, I think it's the most organized and powerful armed formation. Therefore, I am afraid after this law that we will not make any problems, as recently there have been stories when we discussed 15 laws in the principle debate, and then, and agriculture, it has been said that this agriculture will rise to a European level, last year, that we will have a large production, which will contribute to being large exporters. However, it completely destroyed and destroyed agriculture. And now we're neither big producers nor big exporters. Let's just think of the milk manufacturer. I remember when I was in the government the price of milk was 34 dinars a liter. In the meantime, only last year did oil collect 36 dinars per litre. The artificial fertilizer and everything else is more expensive, and the ransom price is now in my neighborhood 15 dinars. It's completely destroyed the stock fund. We'll have to take the kids on a field trip to see the cow. There are no more cows in each village. We don't have any domestic animals. Now this is a chance for wild animals. Let's just take the city of Kursumli, 17 villages in the municipality of Kursumli have no more inhabitants. So it's an extraordinary opportunity for wild animals. Just look at eastern Serbia. We've all been listening here to debates about Negotin where some battles are being fought, stories in the campaign who's going to win. That eastern Serbia has been completely destroyed. It's a big agricultural area. They no longer have a single Easter lamb to slaughter. And that's about to be banned from these new laws of yours. Therefore, I am extremely afraid that this law will be a prelude to something. Since we have a lot of unemployed people, we have a lot of people who don't get paid, it's gonna be old folk. Teach him how to hunt, so let him fight to survive. I think that our peasant in such conditions as are now in agricultural production, especially in meat production, when imported, we have now imported pork from Hungary, chicken from Brazil, meat from Argentina completely destroyed Serbian meat production, will have the chance to survive only if it deals with hunting, as our ancestors once did in a long time ago. Hunting will be the only way to survive the rural population, and indeed those from cities are increasingly coming to go hunting, etc. You've seen the situation in certain areas. The whole area is devastated, destroyed. Let's take the Lazarets area where the coal was exploited, believe me, there's now a toad, a completely devastated area. It's an ideal opportunity, maybe the crocodiles could work there or something. Not to talk about eastern Serbia now. Let's take the Bor, the pine area, the Minister of Ecology collects some bottles, as we can see, and knocks down some objects. And about what was the main theme - environmentalism, healthy environment, healthy food, nobody touches it. Let's take areas where we no longer have the population. From the caves, the people move, from the plains of Goliah, the Zlatar. Look, Prijbo is completely empty, southern Serbia is empty. Take only in southern Serbia the largest producer of fruits and vegetables, famously down agricultural well, has completely destroyed 500 hectares, no one has harvested. Now we'll turn the whole of Serbia's maltene into a hunting ground. Why? Oil's expensive. Peasants don't make fruit growers. In my neighborhood there's an extremely large fruit production. They're all ruined. To the production of cherry – disaster! Production of plums — A disaster! Malin — A disaster! Not to mention apples, never came back, never! So there were some stories that there would be some public warehouses, that there would be processing, a ransom. The processor's not even there. There's no way "The Buddha" can work, "Serbian." The PIC "Such" gave up the production of vodka, the processing of potatoes. The best potato factory in Serbia, in Cačka, was destroyed in privatisation. Data is to the man who's been arrested, and the factory's closed, it's not working. It was the biggest exporter in the area. We don't have a potato manufacturer, we don't have manufacturers, we don't have production now, we don't have a stable ransom price. By importing Mišković's powdered milk, we completely destroyed and destroyed milk producers. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we are left with the hunt. Don't let us spoil that. I see you've come in complete composition, and indeed it's an honor, because the subject is serious, as far as hunting is concerned, savages, minors, the entire ministry has come, which is not the case with the other ministers. No one here from the Ministry of Economy comes or sends a minister of faith to represent them or anyone else. So, it's an honor to have you here, but I'd like to ask you not to ruin something here that works so well and that went well. The hunt was said to have been a privilege of the rich. I think now the poor girl will be in a situation where she'll have to hunt, if she catches something to eat, that she'll have to go hunting for Easter holidays, because she doesn't, if she catches something by accident. And fishing, we're getting more and more trouble because of these accidents, the stream of rivers, we're going to have this opportunity to make these natural lakes, which are going to be created... I see that nothing in Serbia is happening in the area of the protection of the defence dikes. It's a shame in the 21st century, not to talk about anti-urban protection, it doesn't even have to talk anymore, it's a funny story to say hundreds of villages "killed" town. There is no such thing in the world today. See for yourself what's going on. The rabbit swims underwater. The mayor runs a campaign in Negotin and promises the Negotins – perhaps to cause some major floods in the area?- I'm sorry. I see he's inseparable with Dinkic, making some regional centres, etc. It's nowhere in the world. There's no responsibility anywhere, Mr. Minister. Will someone answer for the destruction of thousands of hectares and forests and agricultural land every year in Vlasotinc? And do a lot of damage? In the 21st century, we can't get the rivers under control. There's a lot of snow melting. All right, let's settle this. No one solves, money is spent in various campaigns, various promises, etc. So, as far as these topics are concerned today, you will pass those laws. Here, the Committee on Agriculture is against it, but most of it will vote, people will raise their hands, vote everything in the package when the day of the vote is up, and it will all pass. Again, I fear that something that has worked well in Serbia, well organized, I believe that hunters have been extremely organized, so I fear that they will not be disturbed by their rhythm and that we will not ruin it. Because everything you've brought from the law was at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. The laws were expected to make you feel better. Here, I'm looking, we don't have a quorum on the Traffic and Communications Committee yesterday. Do you believe, we treat Kosovo as a third country, automatically recognise its independence, because we ask that we have licenses like with the French, with the English, with the Germans, etc. So, there are a number of things here in the country that are unexplained, and now we're dealing with the game subject, and I'm afraid these wild animals don't escape from these areas of our own, disappear, and we don't get into a situation like we did domestically. Remember how much we had to make chicken meat? Once thousands of private farms, and social farms, today it's in the nettles, it's healed and no one's coming there. Thousands of cargo yards. I remember this big company called "Stochar" from Chuck who had thousands of cooperatives. It's all empty, it's empty, there's no living soul anywhere to see it, there's no way around it. That's why I'm afraid, even here, we don't disrupt something that's good and we don't spoil something that was in line with one of Serbia's traditions. Because Serbia is well organized, it has had centuries in the tradition of good hunting associations and as soon as the state is involved, as soon as we interfere to pass some European laws... I'm in favour of the EU, but we can't accept all this ad hoc, it'd be like having a kid from primary school right away at college. We need some time. You see, we bring here the mass of law, hundreds of laws. Let's boast we've passed 300 laws. I remember perfectly well when, as a member of the government, I was once in Brussels with the prime minister and other members of the government, and then it was said that by 2014 we would safely join the EU. And here's a statement yesterday from an Englishman, who is our superior, who tells us – before 2017 there's nothing. That means we've gone back three years in these few years, and why, when we've passed so many hundreds of European laws. How is it possible when we have passed so many hundreds of European laws that we have moved away from the EU? Why did we get away? Because agriculture is destroyed, the village is destroyed, people are fired from work, almost a million unemployed who don't get paid, 500,000 people's kitchens, another 500,000 are announced that they may be, because individual ministers about the cost of the state from the budget, make their campaigns, make their own party, register membership, bring in. It's been advertised these days. Thousands and thousands of millions of dinars go to some commercials that we're doing at the Public Service and other media that promote the ministry. Just take how much we give for these promotions and push into the pockets of the tycoons sitting in this power, we talked about it more than once. Because natural resources like hunting sites, we might want to give it to someone, like we did the other day to get a "optic cable" through Serbia. I got a letter yesterday that it's in accordance with the law, because it can do without a tender to give, and whoever calls to get through Corridor 10. Well, if one tycoon has passed, no one's crazy enough to go through the same trance, and that's all done and done at a small door! How is it possible that a 25m-euro investment, which brings income to only one piece of 45,000 euros a year, can be awarded without a tender, while using a law that was once voted for municipalities, that municipalities can use it for their infrastructure, with some tax, some compensation, etc., not international transit, and that some Slovenian buys it, so that it sells to our Telecom or telecommunications, etc., and that we completely destroy these natural resources. I'm afraid that's not the case with hunting grounds, so that someone through them doesn't buy a Serbian country into depravity, which has been burned and unworked, because of an extremely poor state in agriculture that is now in the government and that someone on the side does not become the owner of thousands and thousands of hectares in Serbia, as has already been done in certain parts of Serbia, and especially in Vojvodina, where some tycoons have bought thousands of acres of the most fertile country and turned the parlogus, no one is processing it, waiting for people at the price! There are therefore far more important problems in agriculture, which should have been addressed. I expected you, Mr. Minister, to do more. You're about to have no government support. That's what you can tell from the investment itself. There's talk of subsidies to the village. Wherever I go to a village and ask – people, who got subsidies? Nobody! I haven't heard from anyone yet. If you have an address, I'd like to find out who gets these subsidies from the right agricultural producers, who gets the coolers, who gets those loans from the Development Fund. A lot of people win, but you know what the basic secret is? You get a loan from the Development Fund and you can't fight back. That's good. She's been given "The Buddha" recently, but when you come to get a guarantee from the bank, then someone from the NBS, like the governor or the very important people, surrounds who can get a guarantee. People at the Development Fund say -- don't, for nothing, waste time. And you know why? Because you're not on the list to get a guarantee from the bank. So, the village collapsed, agriculture failed. Not to mention the situation in the woods and where this unfortunate savage is going to get away. All of this is sold in the gulf, in vain, is primarily exported to Italy and other countries, bought as much as they can, sold as they can and as they can, to save and extend power for another day, a few months. There are various deals being made, arrangements to do it. You've seen these famous hunting sites, where there used to be a lot of hunters, now they've built some ski resorts, you can't count them. When you go there now, it's all grown into some nettles, some lawn, some woods, all of a sudden you see the most modern ski-lifts, and nowhere live souls. There's no snow there, though. But it's important that someone with good commissions brought the company from Austria. Take the Old Mountain, how many ski dogs did he sell this year? Take Divchibar, how many ski dogs have been sold? Take Golia, take other places, Tornik, there's nothing of it. Because there is not one organization in this government to do something, to move forward, to set up a healthy foundation, to solve macro-economics in one correct way, as it is done in the world. Nobody deals with macro-economics here, no problem is solved here. We're the only ones left with this hunt, if God will, for survival. Now, don't ruin it with this law! That's why it might be better to withdraw this law and leave something that works well in the country. I'm not for it, and New Serbia can't support a law that's on the agenda, for a number of reasons. It can be concluded from my presentation that we have a fear that this is pulling us all on a journey and not getting into new problems, where we haven't had them before. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36014	Here you go, Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36015	Thank you, Mr. Ilic, for an extraordinary constructive discussion. What is our view is that any MP who votes for the law on game and hunting will join the request of 75,000 hunters in our country to pass a modern law, which will give meaning to this extremely important area of agriculture, forestry and water industry. It is very important for us to have each of those 75,000 hunters know their place in this system, that something that has been destroyed for years is getting back on track, that the system of sustainable hunting development is formed in Serbia and that we no longer have those problems that we have faced, and we have heard what has happened in the past, from illegal exports of savages, poachers, abuses in the area of hunting. As for the results over the past year, we have indeed tried to find the greatest number of legislative proposals in front of the MPs. Since this administration has been working, which is, somewhere since 2008, through the government, 28 laws have passed in the area of agriculture, 15 laws have been passed in this esteemed home. All these laws have found this application. The public storage system began to operate only two months after the law was passed, which is a record throughout Europe. I can say, as far as the results are concerned, we've taken over the Ministry of Agriculture with, like, 12.5 billion minus in the register and we've succeeded, through rebalancing and the efforts of the entire government, to settle all our obligations to farmers by the end of the year, and that no subsidy per hectare passes in 2009. In 2009, subsidies in agriculture, which were increased by 2,000 dinars, were paid in record time. So, in September of the month, we paid off all the subsidies. This year we received a budget that is 25% higher than last year and for this reason we believe that with this year's increase, again by 2,000, so in a year and a half, it's an increase of 4,000 dinars, from 10,000 to 14,000 per hectare, we will honor the deadlines and in the same way go out to meet agricultural producers. As for the past year, it has been extremely difficult in terms of the price of agricultural products. Because of the economic situation in the world, the prices of agricultural products on the world market were extremely low. However, I am pleased to say that last year agriculture was one of the few areas that recorded growth in Serbia – 2%. So, despite the economic crisis, agriculture grew 2% last year, which is extremely significant when it comes to the situation. Also, we recorded a record surplus in the exchange of agricultural products with abroad. With the EU alone, he was about $500 million. The total foreign exchange surplus was over 700 million dollars, which has never happened before. I can tell you that last year we also recorded a record export of corn and re-entered the world's 10 largest countries after exporting this agricultural culture. The Ministry of Agriculture knows how difficult the situation in agriculture has been, and for this reason, every dinar has ruled out a poster according to the registered agricultural producer, so, land, Serbian hosts who spend all day or in the barn or in the field and no one else. We don't grant subsidies to businesses. We simply abolished it, because we think subsidies should go to those who need them most, and they are farmers themselves. And so in the future, while we're doing this job, we're going to treat it that way. I listened carefully, and I can't help but notice, I wasn't a member of the government back then, but the time when the company collapse that you mentioned happened about six years ago, and if I'm not mistaken, I think you were then a member of the government and you know how it all happened. We're trying to help restore this production. As for imports of certain agricultural products, I don't know if you know it, but the SFRY still banned imports of chicken from Brazil, so it's not imported, what's being illegally transferred across the border, this year the General Inspectorate of the Ministry of Agriculture has, on several occasions, decided to stop, discover the quantities, connect all the people who did it, and together we've been in a coordinated action with the Ministry of Agriculture all of them. Also, we try to increase that exports in livestock. Last year, thanks to the very Food Safety Act, we were given the opportunity to export pigmeat processing, which we were unable to export to the EU for 18 years. Four slaughterhouses got a license for that. In addition, a veterinary inspection for ponds has just been completed and we expect that the report will be positive and that in a very short time we will be able to export processing and fresh fish to the EU. We also expect inspection for chicken fresh meat, and we have just completed inspection for pasteurized milk. As for the potato manufacturer, on March 12th, according to our information, we will be getting the free export of potatoes to the EU again. That's the way we work. We may not be loud enough, but by systematic approach, by raising standards, we allow that export to be supported. I'd like to touch on another topic, which is, in what way we should treat businessmen, farmers who represent our export base, to allow them to get permission to do so in as short a time as possible. During the past summer, there was an inadequate campaign in the media related to the export of certain fruit products to Russia. The demands did not come from our side in the analyses, but from the Russian side, it took us two months to get a delay in some of the regulations applicable to all other countries, as regards the export of fruit to Russia. And we managed to get it. This year, already now, we have completed the discussions on the subject and it will go uninterrupted and without a problem. As for the development of fruit growing, the Ministry of Agriculture gives each year for each certified seedling that the manufacturer stabs into the country, up to 5 hectares, not more than 5 hectares, because our target group is exclusively this small agricultural producer, 100 percent of the funds, and this year we will also introduce the possibility of getting fruit screens. We are really trying to meet, first of all, agricultural producers, in our power and with the budget available to us. That's how we're gonna do it from now on, just like we've done it so far. So every dinar must end up in the pocket of peasants, not large systems. Some of the things that happened in the previous period, when, for example, free imports of milk powder that led to a drastic decline in milk prices, are, indeed, things that farmers will not experience from this ministry, as they will not experience even to ban the export of wheat at the moment when it is most useful to farmers. I thank you for your constructive discussion. We'll try to do the best we can in the future, and if we can get any more information to give it to me, it'll be my pleasure to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36016	Mr. Ilic, on what grounds did you answer? I don't think there's any basis for replicating, it's pretty clear, there's no offense. You'll have to go with the minister outside the session. I really don't have the basis to give you my word. The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36017	Thank you, President. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Minister, I will explain in front of the SPS Group – JS. As far as these two laws are concerned, I will focus on the law on game and hunting, while my colleagues will talk more about the law confirming the international convention and protecting new plants. As regards the constitutional definition that natural goods and goods in public use determine the status of goods of general interest, it undertakes to adopt regulations governing their protection, preservation and use. From the definition that game is well of general interest and enjoys special protection as such, a certain law also gives rise to the right and obligation of the legislator to prescribe the measures that this interest will constantly provide and protect. The natural legal instrument of general interest enables the reconciliation of a number of intertwined and related specific interests of individuals, legal entities and a number of other activities and activities. The current situation in the area of hunting is, among other things, the result of the inconspicuous and incomplete determination of the state in matters of property over game, property and legal problems arising from the rights of gamekeeping and property rights over the areas where game breeds and breeds, as well as the inadequate definition of hunting as economic activity and hunting to meet the personal needs of individuals or groups. In order to look at the existing situation and set targets for development in the area of hunting, comparison is necessary with countries where hunting is highly developed. We have an example of Austria in which hunting management has an exceptional tradition, and the area, the population, the number of hunters, somewhat and natural conditions, imposes itself as an appropriate choice for the company. Number of deer states, i.e. The common deer is 15 times, and the deer is seven and a half times bigger in the hunting grounds of Austria than in the hunting grounds of Serbia, while the same species of game in Austrian hunting grounds are shot away by a number of conditions in our hunting grounds six and a half times, or three times. The situation is similar in Germany, Bulgaria, Hungary. For the sake of some comparison, I will, since I have already stated that by the surface and by the number of hunters Serbia and Austria are about the same, I can only give an example that the number of the population of the throat, i.e. ordinary deer in Serbia is 3.748, while in Austria the population of the population is 90,000, shot at 600, and shot at more than 38,000 in Austria. As for the deer, the population in Serbia is 93,000, and the shooting was 7,500, and in Austria the population was 600,000, and 220.000 was shot. So, these facts themselves, and based on these data, it can certainly be claimed that many of the wildlife in Serbia's hunting grounds is far from optimal. The value of the total planned shooting of all game species does not reach 8m euros at the same time. As a good part of it is not charged, financial indicators related to the hunting area in the Republic of Serbia often come down to estimates, so they, I say, more optimisticly cite revenue of 4m euros. According to central Austrian hunting associations, the total revenues from hunting in Austria exceed 500m euros. It should be pointed out that habitat conditions in our hunting grounds because of their diversity are suitable for the cultivation of numerous species of large and tiny game, and that most of the natural habitats are well preserved, so that they represent a large and stable resort for the development of hunting in our country. This law provides reliable instruments, such as the instrument of protection, controlled use, promotion, rational management and appropriate wildlife as a renewable good, regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the state as legislators and owners, therefore, the construction of state institutions, bodies, businesses and other legal entities and almost all activities and activities in the Republic. Therefore, the primary objective in the field of hunting must be to achieve the biological and ecological balance of natural habitats and the number of savages that such habitats allow. The solutions proposed by this law are an expression of compliance with the international obligations that our country has and result from ratified international agreements and areas of protection of biodiversity, and in particular the Convention on the Conservation of European Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, which was brought to Bern and the Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species of Wild Animals, which was brought to Bon. To achieve this goal, the law envisaged appropriate instruments. The basic means of managing renewable natural goods of general interest is professional, timely, realistic and realistic planning, with the security of consistent application of plans, indicating the need to find more suitable solutions for game and habitats, and thus more appropriate management of game populations than previously applied. The solution that provides quality and continuity in the adoption and consistency of the implementation of the planning documents is to issue licences for the production of hunting planning documents and professional activities for the protection of breeding and use of game in the hunting grounds. Starting with the definition, the proposer made his own form of savagery a state, and the head of state of property over savagery is the resolution authority responsible for hunting. This law in relation to the current solutions foresees that the country i.e. the holder of State property over gamers shall give a general and individual right to hunt, with the application of the principle of sustainability and the principle of the pay user. The user of natural values, resources and goods is obliged to pay compensation for their use. Applying the "payer" principle creates material-financed assumptions for the protection and promotion of game and habitats, through the establishment of the Hunting Development Fund, from which the financing of the jobs set out in this law is provided. This law, respecting both the general and national interest in game and its habitat, is in line with the generally accepted basic principles of management of the game population, sustainable management and sustainable development – extends the right of use to land owners with acceptable restrictions, in accordance with constitutional provisions. At the same time, on the surfaces of national parks and on areas with the majority participation of national forests and forest land, it is envisaged to establish a hunting ground for special purposes, in order to implement specific measures of land management, conservation and guidance of the development of the game population and their habitats. In order to make it more rational for the operation of sustainable management activities for game populations, the uniformly sustainable development of hunting and the implementation of a single policy in land in all hunting grounds, the law provides for the establishment of hunting areas, which represent spatially optimal areas and round up natural continents with a view to long-term rational management of populations of certain species of game and the taking of appropriate measures in hunting grounds. The implementation of uniform management measures for game populations and specific protection measures shall be ensured by the creation and adoption of the Hunting Area Development Programme, providing financial support from the Hunting Development Fund. Sustainable management of wildlife populations and sustainable hunting development are central pillars for all solutions offered by this law, on which it is based to regulate relations with game and its habitats. At the very end, I would say that it is obvious from all of this that there are two basic reasons for the adoption of this law. As I have already said, the SPS-JS Group will vote for this law in principle. Two basic reasons for the adoption of this law are: under one, the unsatisfactory state of the game population, caused by the absence of measures to maintain and improve the state of the game population and its habitats and, under two, the need to comply with the set of laws in the field of environmental protection and other regulations governing the sustainable use of natural resources and goods, as well as the planning and editing of space. So much for this principle debate, and when there's a debate in particular, I'm going to get involved with pleasure in the debate. I appeal to the minister that, possibly, with some changes, which will not essentially change the law, which, as I have already said, is excellent, to come to some compromise, when it comes to amendments, if there are some parts that can be used and changed. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36018	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36019	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected a lot of newspapers in this law on game and hunting, that it would solve some problems and that there would be a promotion of this hobby or sport, as they call it. Unfortunately, some of the solutions I read in the law convinced me of completely opposite things. I must say, Mr. Minister, I also expected you at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which is said to be the committee responsible for this law, but the current Rules of Procedure, which we have, is nowhere to be claimed. I expected the environment minister, Mr Oliver Dulic, to show up. These are two ministries that need to work closely together to pass a valid law. Unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture, the legislator of this law, we didn't see it on the Committee yesterday. We could have exchanged opinions, solved some dilemmas and come up with some compromise. I guess the minister had other important things to do. I also didn't see it in this debate, and you'll see how important it is, given how important this law is. But there was a problem yesterday. The proposal for this law has not been supported by the committee responsible. Mr. Minister, do you, as a legislator of this law, have a problem when the committee in charge does not give support to this law, is it any signal that the bill is okay or is it something else entirely? We are once again entering a procedure, however, provided by such rules of procedure, which in some cases is applied very strictly, and in some cases it is interpreted very creatively, when it comes to position and power, but this is the state of the spirit in Serbia. For me, this is a key question, Mr. Minister – do you, as a legislator, have a problem if you do not get the support of the Committee? I'd like you to answer that question. On the other hand, at yesterday's session of the Committee on Agriculture, the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia also appeared at the invitation of the Committee President, which I thank Mr Mašić for, but I think we have received a kind of answer to the question of what has been cooked back these few months and around the Hunting Union and about the appearance of such a bill. The DSS MP was asked – did the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia or the Hunting Union have certain objections to the law? The president of the Hunting Union of Serbia responded that there were certain dilemmas and that the Hunting Union of Serbia, or the president, had referred the amendments to different addresses. The next question was, who are these amendments to? Strangely, none of these amendments to the Hunting Union of Serbia have reached the hands of opposition parliamentary groups. It's a very interesting thing. And why is that?- I'm sorry. I don't have an answer right now, but I can tell. Mr. Minister, you have specified the objective of passing the law. I don't doubt your good intentions, but for the purpose of this law and the projection of this law, I see a few things. The first thing I'm going to talk about, which you well know, is that the Hunting Union of Serbia has a tradition of over a hundred years, exactly 114 years and that King Milan has set it up. With this law, I no longer see the role of the Hunting Union of Serbia in the law of hunting and savagery, I see its protocol role. It doesn't exist! So, proof, let's do what existed over the centuries to end it, to destroy it, that it doesn't exist. When such a thing is with a roof hunting organization, then the question is, what about hunting associations, especially in one section of the law regarding tendering, or leaseing a hunting ground. You know very well, Mr. Minister, that this law of the hunting society in no way as current owners are put in an equal position with other participants in that tender. You even give certain kinds of clarifications about what's going to happen to hunting societies. What's going to happen to the property of these hunting companies. They'll be able to be compensated for that unamortized part. Who's going to judge that? What is an unamortized part of hunting homes, hunting facilities? On the pier again, there's a very rough way to kidnap something that's been acquired for decades. Who knows how many people have invested their personal work, personal resources, and now someone who has more money, because that's the aim of the law, of running a hunting ground, of having these facilities, and of paying for the unamortized part that someone is going to estimate what it is. Is that gonna be one dollar? Maybe 50 bucks? You know, maybe she'll go for five euros as a sugar cane?- I'm sorry. I'll stop here, I won't use my time until the end, as an authorised representative. It seems to me that the aim of this law is to get as much money as possible from the state, to have a professional organization destroy, to derail, to have hunters sell out their weapons nicely, to give it to the solvents, to have some new people who have more money than hunting societies -- to buy a hunting ground, to empty it out, to bring it back. Well, then your hunters will have an exclusive opportunity, Mr. Minister, I apologize for that, apparently, to hunt mosquitoes and ticks.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36020	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36021	Thank you. Once again, this is the minutes of a meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture, where the views of the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Agriculture, as well as representatives of the hunting alliances are in line with the law we are adopting today. I agree that you have your opinions on this, but here we represent, first of all, those people who are interested in this law, which is 75,000 hunters who hunt in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That law was written to support them. If you compare the current law and the law that we are making here today, you can see that all the provisions of the law are such that they greatly strengthen the criteria for obtaining hunting grounds, norms, security and all that is important for raising this sector. For that reason, don't mind, but I don't think you're right about what you're saying from my point of view. I think that this law is very well balanced and regulated, and that it is in line with the latest European norms in this area, and that in no way favours anyone who has money, but someone who will professionally and adequately manage hunting grounds. That's exactly what the Hunting Union wanted. I don't know why you converse with the views of hunting alliances, but the hunting alliances agreed that this law goes this way to the Assembly. As for the Committee on Agriculture, you know, Professor Masic said the same thing, I agree, it's not that there was a problem with the law, but that there were not enough MPs on the Committee, which I don't think is right, and they were all supposed to be there. For that reason, there were five "for" and one "against" and four "maintained" as I recall on the Committee itself. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you, anyway, for your amendments. Right now we're looking at what the amendments are. If you can take a break, we'll be happy to go through them and see if any of them can help make the law better, of course we'll accept it. We don't mind. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36022	Thank you. What's the base of the call, Mr. Dimitrievich? In the time frame you want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36023	Mr. Minister, I think we understand each other very well, but we speak different languages of this law. You know, I gotta tell you one thing, I've been a hunter for 40 years. Someone who has crossed Serbia from the north to the south, from the east to the west and vice versa. In contact with who knows how many hunting associations, I've never heard a word of praise about this law in any hunting association. It is possible that the leaders of the Hunting Union of Serbia have passed on such information to you, but that information is not correct. Hunters, members of the Hunting Association, are embittered by certain provisions of this law. You will see what this law will lead to. It will lead the hunters to fight, to fight, and to have a miracle in the Serbia area.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36024	I've taken this as a replica, and this second part, you'll finally have the opportunity to use it. Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36025	Thank you. I just want to mention again that this law is written in the interest of 75,000 hunters who are in Serbia's territory. It has the consent of all hunting associations, and if I know it well, then the members of the Hunting Union, or the presidents of the hunting alliances, are elected by hunting associations. So I guess their presidents had a mandate to agree with this law. I also told my associates that the law does not go to the government and the Assembly until the hunters say that the law is good for them. We waited for it to be so, only then did we give him directions. There's nothing to argue about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36026	Thank you. People's ambassador Zoran Mashim has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36027	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers and co-workers of the ministry, honourable MPs, allow me to present our view of this bill in front of the Serbian-Serbian Progressive Party Parliamentary Group, and I would like to most honestly say that the majority of the legal solutions and provisions offered here are acceptable, and the aspect of hunting organisations and the protection of that national goods. Certainly, like every law and this one has either certain indeterminations or perhaps opportunities for better formulation. In that regard, I also discussed at the Committee's session, but I would like to rely on this opinion debate, first of all, of the Hunting Union of Serbia. I have no doubt absolutely that they were actively involved and that they contributed in some way to this proposal, but you must understand, it is my personal assessment, but in relation to the initiatives they had also made to the Committee on Agriculture and by delivering these amendments that they most likely reternised in some of their agreed consents and some of the promises they made in the phase and public debates and concepts of this proposal. But I don't blame you from the Ministry and the people who worked on it, if they had previously given consent, then they had to assess for themselves how much of an interest it is for this organization that exists for 110 years in this country that it has given, we will agree, no doubt, to improve the hunting economy, to grow savages and everything this country has on that plan. For the sake of truth, certain dissatisfactions exist in the hunting alliance itself, both Serbia and Vojvodina. In the same way, I was addressed by men of the Duke's Hunting Union. However, they reportedly co-conceived the set of amendments through amendments, which they again gave to some parliamentary groups to propose, and in the end, the debate on amendments will be given to see what amendments to the Hunting Union of Serbia, which have been proposed by individual MPs and parliamentary groups. I would, however, go back to the bill itself and say something about the proposal itself and, I say, certain shortcomings that might, in the end, have been regulated differently. What I would certainly like to say in this opening part is that Serbia's game represents an absolute national wealth and must be preserved and improved to meet the environmental, economic, social needs of society. So it's versatile. The importance of plants cannot only be measured through money, because it also has irreplaceable ecological and social functions at national and global level. Certainly, staying in nature and how it affects the ecological environment helps to prevent the spread of certain vectors that it uses for its diet and, in any case, it is a significant factor in environmental protection. And, in that sense, certainly, game should be nurtured and promoted or maintained in the orderly ecosystems by the size that is present. What I also want to point out here is the assessment and vision of the legislators of this law, that he also points out that the reason for the adoption of this law is an unsatisfactory state of the game population, as well as good for the general interest in the Republic of Serbia. The current situation is, among other things, due to the inconsistencies and incomplete determination of the state in matters of property on game, property and legal problems arising from the right to land on game and property rights in areas where gamer breeds and breeds, as well as inadequate definition of hunting as economic activity and hunting to meet the personal needs of individuals or groups. Given the unsatisfactory state of the existing game funds, a very pronounced absence of measures to maintain and improve the status of wildlife populations and its habitats, the modest possibilities of the Republic of Serbia's budget to help seriously increase game funds, solutions in this law are more insisting on establishing commitments and creating financial, organisation and personnel support for measures to protect and maintain existing game funds. I think that some of these definitions in that sense are absolutely fine and something that we absolutely support. I would like to say in this opening part, according to data I was able to obtain online, it is now established in Serbia about 323 hunting sites covering a total area of about 8 million 828 thousand hectares, that 89 of which is located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, with some two million 152 thousand hectares, and in the territory of the central part of Serbia there are 199 hunting grounds, with an area of 5 million 5,83 thousand. Unfortunately, on the part of our territory that we are currently not in control, it is AP KiM, there are 33 hunting grounds, with an area of millions and 92 thousand hectares. The hunting grounds have been placed on the owner's behalf by ad or directly to the hunting alliance of Serbia – 193, JP "Serbishum" and JP "Vojvodinasume" – 67, national parks – four, the military of former Serbia-Montenegro, and I assume it is now Serbia's military -- only three hunting sites, ponds – 16 and some other owners around five. It is estimated that the numerous conditions of the main species of game in these hunting grounds are approximately: that there is a European deer about 3,800, a deer about 93,000, wild boars about 12,500, a giant about 600, a deer shovel about 1000, a muflon about 900, a rabbit about 600,000 and a Polish goat about 330,000. I couldn't find data for the pheasant game, specifically, the pheasant, but ultimately, it doesn't matter. These are the numbered main species in most of our hunting grounds. Certainly, compared to natural conditions, compared to our capacities and capabilities, we could grow a much larger number of savages or ensure that they are raised. This law that we are discussing today, and which will be passed, should contribute in the coming period to better manage hunting sites first and foremost, and then, more significantly increase the number of major species in hunting grounds. What we have certain objections to certain solutions given in this proposal, I will also, in some short time, expose. First of all, in the part relating to the general interest, it is in Article 3, where it is defined within 10 points what will be the basis, in some way, of this law, although the basis is given at 1) point, that is, by adopting a Strategy for the Development of the Hunting of the Republic of Serbia. I'll talk about this document later, we have serious objections in the way you propose to bring in the Strategy, what it should contain, and on what time period should it be brought in. Furthermore, also in point 5) providing funds for the establishment and maintenance of the information system on game populations and their habitats. I absolutely don't argue that there should be an information system, but I think that you from the Ministry should avoid any law where there should be an information system to include additional funds. However, the information system is multi-functional, so it involves computers and memory, not to be for every law, for every monitoring, always a new information system. I agree, we need a program, so let's not make it any special funding now, though, not big, but it's just in a situation like this when we're supposed to be saving at all levels, we need to figure out a way through these definitions not to spend too much money. Also, research and development work in the field of hunting, point 7). I would be very happy, however, as a man of profession and science that the Ministry of Agriculture, not only in the field of hunting but also in many other areas, has enough resources for research and promotion and research and professional work. We are witnessing, unfortunately, that, first of all, that the ministry and the government's resolute trustee who primarily manages with research funds, that is the Ministry of Science, has no close-up money to fund research. Then I think this is pretentious to be within the general interest and something that will be realized by this law as a starting point. I don't argue that it should stand, just the slow reality of the means and the reality of some research through this law. Furthermore, I would like to point to the Hunting Organization and Article 5. "The Ministry responsible for hunting affairs (hereinafter referred to as "the Ministry") is responsible for hunting in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. ''And the 2nd position reads: ''Autonomous province is responsible for the work of hunting of the province's importance in the territory of the autonomous province. ''I must say, with regret, even, that this is the first law that now makes clear the distinction between what is in the Republic, and the Republic is what we call the central part of the Republic, and the province has in fact all jurisdiction and jurisdiction under this law. Literally, as far as savages are concerned, everything that is in Vojvodina is duchy, which is in Serbia – whether it is only the central part of Serbia or has the right to do so and Vojvodina, you have now failed to determine it here more decidently. If you look at Article 6 where you determine the individual affairs of the AP Vojvodina, then it literally turns out that there's all their, complete organization and funding and everything. So precise for the Republic is not defined. Yesterday, as part of the principle debate, I asked about inspection and inspection, Mr Pajtic answered – he will be fully supervised, some, province inspectors, although all agricultural inspection is, therefore, all that is in the ministry of agriculture and all the inspectors, they are at a republican level, and now only by transferring some of the responsibilities of those people who will be hunting inspectors should be employed in the province. Tomorrow there'll be cattle inspectors, veterinary inspectors, most likely in some future period. I don't think that's going well, and I hope it doesn't. But if a hunting inspector or hunting and hunting inspectors are in charge of the AP Vojvodina area, they will conduct their entire inspection supervision by reporting to the Secretary-General for Agriculture, the AP Vojvodina, and overseeing that part of the job. And, we have the territory of Vojvodina, which, I say, is in the central part of Serbia, that's exactly where I come from. Let's say, there from, I don't know, the villages of Night Salash or Zasavica if the savage moves to Radenkovic or Ban's field, or some other villages, who will now control it and how. It's just, I'm afraid to go back to the period 1974 when we had these problems in inspection and control of jurisdiction at all, so it doesn't start with this law, so tomorrow with some changes or some other laws... I would be happier if it were resolved so that inspectors in the autonomous province work – yes, they do, but they are under the authority of the General Inspectorate and must fully provide all information to the Republic Ministry of Agriculture and the General Inspectorate. Unfortunately, it wasn't confirmed on the board yesterday. As for the Chamber to be established, I do not dispute that it should be established and that it is a professional organisation, but I do not think that the state should be the founder and should not be involved in the organs of the Chamber. This law stipulates that in certain bodies the Chamber should be representatives of the ministry; so in the Veterinary Chamber, the Health Chamber, it is in some other chambers. If these are professional organisations, they must have professional bodies, past political interference. As suggested here, it is suspected that again in a significant number of decisions the Chamber will have the influence of the state and through its representatives in the bodies. What I would especially like to point out are Mountain documents – hunting development strategy. Article 45 provides and says: "The basic document of the management and protection of game is a strategy brought by the Government for a period of 20 years. '"I ask you, why such a suggestion? How do you really judge yourself? Do you really think for 20 years this government will be so well-conceived and that such a document that has been passed by the government for 20 years will be valid, or should it have been seen more realistically? There are more important things to define through the Strategy. The hunting area development programme, in Article 46, paragraph 1, says: "The implementation of the objectives and measures for the development of hunting and the improvement of the status of game populations in hunting areas is based on the programme of development of the hunting area, which brings the Ministry, for a period of 20 years", also. And Section 3 says: ''The hunting area development programme contains especially: the name of the hunting area, the area and the border of the hunting area, the natural and other conditions for game cultivation, the nature of the game species, the nature of the protected and permanently protected species... "and so on, I'm not reading because of the weather. I think it's pretentious and that yesterday, in the principle debate, it should have been accepted, namely, I suggested that it be reduced this year, and I think that the Committee on Agriculture should have proposed an amendment, which would have meant a reduction in this period. It is the same hunting ground that is brought for a period of 10 years, too, as a strategic document. And finally, in relation to the opinion of the Hunting Union of Serbia and the need to adopt significant number of sublegal acts, which is that, let's say, the establishment of the Hunting Chamber will follow for a year, the adoption of legislation will also be passed in a year, since our opinion might be that we should postpone the application of this law from the beginning of January next year, as well as resolve unresolved issues between the Hunting Union and the Proposer, i.e. The ministries, which will now take the lead. In the end, it is also a proposal from the Hunting Union of Serbia. So I ask the minister and his associates, who worked on this, to think again about these proposals and, possibly, to make adjustments through the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36028	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Hunters, this law is necessary to Serbia, but this necessity has followed in a very strange way. How strange? Today’s comments and discussions we heard, and yesterday’s comments on the Committee on Agriculture, indicated that this law did not come in a very good way into this congregation. Both last and this year, the Hunting Union of Serbia had to and had an obligation to prepare this law on game and hunting, organise and notify the hunting public in time and time, which, and what changes and additions this law would bring to the hunters. He was unable to do so after strange things happened in the Hunting Union of Serbia. The money and capital he held the Hunting Union has disappeared and in such a state, the Hunting Union of Serbia did not welcome and organise the law on game and hunting. We believe that we who are engaged in hunting, protecting, promoting and growing game, and there are in Serbia, by some estimates, 96,000, that is an army of citizens who have different concepts of their hobby and economic activity. First, the forest law was to be passed. Why the forest law? Because the woods are a habitat and a place of refuge for savages, which is what we're making the law about today. Then, the agricultural and other land law, which will be in line with the new concept of this law. The minister says this law is in line with European conventions, with European directives, with regulations, which when the user of this law is well analysed, is not satisfied. All the countries in the environment, including the former SFRY, have not in a noble and quality way resolved this legal issue. Europe is wandering, and we are to pass a law that will not be applied in accordance with the tradition of our people, with the tradition of hunting in the former Yugoslavia, the current Serbia. With this proposed law, the definition of game status is not in line with the Constitution. No definitions of individual terms are given, or material errors have been made that can, of course, be corrected. In the opening part, the rules of writing and the systems of law were violated. There is no basis for declaring hunting activity of general interest because it is not a legal condition that it is a matter of strategic importance for the Republic. The status was not granted to her by any of the strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. In the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Work of Hunting, there is no status of activity given of strategic importance. The creation of the Strategy is set in this domain as sectoral objectives, and the proposal for a law on game and hunting is prematurely giving hunting that status. Before strategic examination and without a basis, there is no basis in Articles 86 and 87. The Constitution (equality of all forms of property; state property) because it is about dispositive norms which leave the law free to settle this issue. This provision may only aim at obtaining privileged status to a public or other undertaking entrusted with carrying out a business of general interest or to direct budgetary resources to that activity, i.e. providing a monopoly position. In Article 3 that regulates the general interests, we have proposed the amendment to read: 'The savage is the natural wealth and property of the Republic of Serbia, which is used under conditions and in the way provided for by this law. ''The legal basis for those amendments is related to the Constitution, Articles 86 and 87 of Chapters 1 and 3, the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest – Article 2(2), the National Sustainable Development Strategy, Chapters V and III, the impact of economic sectors on the environment – Chapter III and V of forestry, hunting, fisheries. I'll look back on chapter III. which is regulated by the Hunting Chambers, those are members from 9th to 19th. All my colleagues who have commented today about this chamber, mostly, do not all have a positive view of this chamber. The establishment of a hunting chamber is at this point merely the creation of unnecessary costs to the state and to citizens employed in hunting. It is as in all the ministries in Serbia today, you are set up administrations and agencies, which do not know the number, which in financial terms represent the ballast and burden of Serbia's budget. These chambers have the same goal and intention to impose higher costs on hunters and hunters, thus weaken the economic, already weakened, power of the hunting union of Serbia and the hunters themselves. The only meaningful activity that the Chamber would perform is the professional licensing of hunting personnel, and this can be carried out by the ministry responsible for hunting operations, as is the case in other ministries. Otherwise, poor hunters in hunting, with well-known low incomes, except for this gentleman who in the Hunting Union has provided herself with high incomes, has provided herself with untouchableness and thus closed up transparency and has allowed the public known personalities to obtain large material resources, will be forced to pay membership fees, and the Chamber has been given through the law the opportunity to constantly fund their expenses to survive and once it takes hold of it, it will no longer stop, and the hunt will slowly lose its meaning until now. It shall be empowered to double the work in the jurisdiction of the hunting inspection to certain segments. In the law we have apostrophe of the following chapters: Basic provisions, hunting area and hunting grounds, hunting and game management, members 38 and 40. The bill does not express or respect the folk tradition and hunting practices of the Serb people in hunting. The hunting alliance of Serbia was founded in 1896. The Duke's Hunting Union was founded in 1922. It gathers 227 hunting associations with 96,000 hunters. Here this number of 96,000, 75,000 or 86,000, is probably a figure that is not in line either at the ministry level or at the level of the Hunting Union of Serbia. The hunting tradition is rural, baroque and city hunting societies. It is believed that the oldest was founded in 1873, and over a hundred years there are dozens of hunting companies. The hunting sites are traditionally formed around rural, Varoque and urban communities within their catastrian municipalities. Our people preserve and cultivate the tradition of local hunting societies and cultivation, protection and hunting savages around their place of life. In the village are hunters most often those who process fields in hunting grounds, they will lose the most with this law. Hunting, hunting and hunting practices are part of social life, and in families traditions carried from knee to knee. Many communities are bound by the existence of hunting grounds and the right to hunt for the history of their place. All societies have immovable property in the city and in the hunting grounds. Since their founding, they have all managed the same hunting grounds around their place and they will lose the most by passing this new law, unless these amendments are adopted which we want to improve this law. The European Union recommends its members to arrange hunting in accordance with their historical and cultural traditions. The proposal for a new law not only supports or ignores that tradition, but also seeks to destroy it. This is clearly seen through favouring the public enterprise, other hunting users, through the way the hunting grounds are formed, by taking away the intelligence of hunting organisations, by making them turn into companies, although they are NGOs as well as by avoiding mentioning traditions. We're erasing tradition from all segments of society to enter this globalist society, and that globalist society, for example, you've had a chance to hear what's going on in Afghanistan these days. When these NATO people kill 35-40 innocent people there, they apologize to these people, and, let's move on. Hunting for special purposes shall be called hunting grounds established on state land and on state forests managed by public undertakings. We believe, otherwise I come from a public enterprise called 'Fruška Gora', that there must have been a treatment of monastery hunting sites, or hunting sites with which the Serbian Orthodox Church will run. And that's one topic on which there is nothing in this law, which should have been. In particular, there will likely be about 9,000 or 10,000 hectares of forest owned by the Serbian Orthodox Church in Fruška Gora. In the bill, compensation for these hunting grounds is 50% lower than other hunting grounds. These hunting grounds, unlike the others, are put on a run without a public ad and on a longer term, i.e. for 20 years. And while all hunting users are banned from renting some of the hunting grounds to third parties, the users of the hunting grounds in the state property are allowed to continue to rent them out. That's very disputable. In this way, state property becomes available for use in a completely non-transparent and arbitrary manner, is assigned to use according to the Minister's opinion and with an arbitrary fee, and the user has the right to make use of and make use of third parties at his discretion. The question is why the state property is cheaper and can be reached via the minister past the public's insights, so we always suggest, as the SRS, that the minister has less jurisdiction than the ministry, and whoever gets it is allowed to treat it according to his intent by renting it to others. What is the objective of such legal provisions? Why it is necessary to hide, under the name of the hunting grounds, national hunting grounds that use public enterprises and which in this way get the possibility to continue to house in parts, revirancies and similar leases. The next question is, is this how you purposely create the possibility of state hunting grounds being issued to third parties, companies and others, without public insight at a lower price and arbitrary conditions? It also raises the question whether in this way it wants to avoid or hide the fact that it avoids the application of the Law on concessions and the award of concessions for the use of hunting in state property through a public tender with a concession fee in order to enable the renting of parts of the hunting grounds in the state property, reviras, direct contract and without public participation. These provisions in the law are inadmissible and we suggest that they be deleted, that's what we're asking for amendments. Over 80 amendments have been submitted to this law. We ask that our amendments be accepted. They will only partially mitigate the negative consequences of this law. We think that NGOs have affected this law to lose the authenticity of hunting. The ruling coalition has not submitted any amendments to the law on game and hunting. Here, you can see now that there are no representatives of the ruling coalition in the Maltena Hall, or no fellow MPs. So, they don't care about this law. They, the ruling coalition, have actually not submitted any amendments, so that they can repair this situation. There are some colleagues who have submitted quality amendments to this law, but have withdrawn these amendments from the procedure. I don't know for what reasons or whose insistence. They withdrew a number of amendments, I think there were 10 or 12 amendments that some colleagues withdrew. The law wants the hunting service to comply with the country's democratic and quality standards. But it's not like that. Hunters in Serbia are the weakest paid workers and they live on the edge of poverty, and they are asked to protect that noble savage of ours. How do we solve this, the law doesn't give an answer. In particular, how can a hunter react when an unknown person comes to him, better armed, organized, have more helpers? He, with the help of these funds and with the possibility that the law allows him, is unable to do anything. What about hunting-technical facilities? That's all the questions we need to get an answer to. What about the homes? What's it going to be, I think one of his colleagues mentioned, with raucous hunting grounds, or hunting sites that will be used and returned? What about future empty hunting grounds? What shall we leave to our generations and young generations? If there are 96,000 hunters in Serbia, mainly small-legged hunting, these young people who are now 10 to 15 years old are also engaged, and this is an army, if not 96, then there should be about 50,000 young people who will be potential hunters, or who are now interning with existing hunters. Hunting's kind of a trade. You have to learn how to walk, how to act, etc. What's going to happen to these people? Does the law provide profiles in the profession? I don't think that law was allowed to comment, even though it could also make certain comments in one or two members. In Serbia, we have the only Forest School in the Kingdom that schools certain hunting-related profiles and the Faculty of Forestry, which is here in Belgrade, which also provides certain hunting-related profiles. I don't want to underestimate the Faculty of Agriculture and so on. but we believe that this should have been regulated legally or otherwise, in order to get quality professional personnel who will be able to handle and rule this matter tomorrow, which is hunting, which is not naive. In this law, I think the deadlines for a sublegal act that will take place, all the norms and obligations that need to be followed by this law, are not up to the point of commentary. There are variations that this year still apply the old law, and 2011 starts to apply this law. Will the Hunting Union, the Chamber, the Ministry succeed in providing and preparing all these sublaws so that this one can work? Someone has been commenting on the two-level inspectors, the Republic, the provinces, etc., how it's going to work, it's just in principle divided, but I think there's a lot of problems here. Hunters have never been party-colored and they, as such, should cultivate and cultivate the tradition of our hunting in Serbia. I think so, and I think most hunters think so, too, that this tradition should be preserved and that this traditional way of hunting in Serbia should be raised to a higher level. Just as the foresters want to turn the low forests into high forests, so we hunters want to be more quality future young hunters who are supposed to represent that group. I would have another comment, perhaps two, about reintroduced or returning species to Serbia's areas, and it's legal here, perhaps some sublegal acts will be arranged to return certain species to the space that is now very interesting in Serbia. I think some colleagues have also said that where there is no intensive agricultural production, there is a bonitation through automation, that is, the creation of these hunting areas where gamers need to be nursed, bossed with it, and that is to be better quality. I will mention that the return of the deer to Fruska Gora. It's a positive reaction from the ministry that helped bring that deer back, and I think that the ministry's action should continue, not only to return the deer, but to return other species that have been destroyed in certain habitats and in certain areas. This law has been used to comment here and catastre. The cataster should ensure, when it is in its sublegal acts, that some tampon or peaceful oasis are created which will be the refuge of savages on both sides of a particular hunting ground, so that the gamer can peacefully perform reproduction, that is, to remove that rejuvenation. I think those buffer zones should be 500 to 1,000 meters. It means that between one association or another association...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36030	Time of 20 minutes has been used, which is available to you as an authorised representative. Thank you. For today, we finish our morning work. Before I set a break, on the basis of Article 85, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working after 1800 hours by discussing the point that at that moment is the subject of our work and until its completion. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled and uniform search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the Prosperity Group of Serbia, the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, the SRS Parliamentary Group. These are MPs' groups who applied for a word on behalf of their MPs, so we move on to part of the debate, and by order of the MPs, according to the application for the word. The first registered speaker is MP Zoran Bortic, followed by Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36032	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, in addition to the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on game and hunting, which is contained in Article 97 point 9, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and secures sustainable development, the system of protection and promotion of the environment, as well as the protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, there are also more specific reasons for the adoption of this law, as well as a series of objectives that will be achieved by its adoption. One of the basic reasons why it is necessary to pass a law on game and hunting is the need to address the obvious problems and shortcomings that occurred during the application of the present Hunting Law. In addition, new legal solutions need to improve the normative regulation of this area, remove the weaknesses that have arisen, and to integrate certain widely accepted international standards and provisions of ratified international conventions in the area of hunting into our legal system. As I have already said, it is necessary to bring the legal text that regulates this area in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is generally known that the situation in the area of hunting in our country is unsatisfactory and that the consequence, among other things, of the inconsistencies and incomplete determination of the state by matters of property over game, property and legal issues arising from the right of mastery over game and property rights over areas where gamer breeds and breeds, as well as the inadequate definition of hunting as business branches and hunting to meet the personal needs of individuals or groups. This law must also respect the general interest in game and its habitat to the extent that it limits the rights of use to land, forest and water in an acceptable manner, in accordance with the generally accepted basic principles of management of wildlife populations, sustainable management and sustainable development. In essence, it can be claimed that there is no restriction on the right to use, but that it is the measures that provide for its permanent existence. Given the unsatisfactory state of existing game funds, the lack of adequate measures to maintain and improve the status of wildlife populations and its habitats, as the fact that the Republic of Serbia's budget has modest opportunities to help increase wild game funds more seriously, this legal solution insists on establishing commitments and creating financial, organisational and staff support for measures to protect and maintain existing game funds. The very concept of this law has found its foothold in the legal instrument – general interest, seeking to find a solution to the most important problems of the game population. Unreal, unbiased and unprofessional display of the real qualitative and quantitative state of game in the hunting grounds, as well as the mastery of the hunting grounds itself, have resulted in poor professionally designed plans that have been brought into discontinuity and have often been inapplicable or inconsistencies. All this pointed to the need to find more suitable solutions for game and habitats and to organize the management of wildlife populations. That is why this law, compared with the solutions so far, makes it more clear that its own relationship with savages is state-owned, and that the head of state-shaped property over savages is the ministry responsible for hunting affairs. With a total of 11 chapters and 115 members, the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting regulates hunting, hunting chamber, game protection, hunting area and hunting grounds, hunting and game management, financing, damages and damages, surveillance and criminal provisions. This law stems from the fact that the general national interest in game and its habitats is doubtless for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and that the unsatisfactory state of the game population, as a good of general interest, has imposed the need to regulate this area normably, in line with the legal standards reached. The matter governed by this area cannot be established without the existence of a legal act which provides the basis for the adoption of regulations governing the protection, conservation and sustainable use of game and the conservation of biodiversity of game. We believe that this law will have a positive impact on the users of the hunting grounds, because it regulates their rights and obligations, defines the content of the planning documents, measures to manage the populations of savages and their protection and determines the fees for using game and its purposes. The law will also have a positive impact on the work of competent authorities, as it determines the conditions in the process of planning and using resources, restricts and prohibits the fire of strictly protected wild species and lays down procedures for carrying out activities in the management of the game population. The law lays down and distinguishes the competences of the Republic and of the Autonomous Province, which relate to the establishment of hunting areas and hunting grounds, the granting of rights to the management of the hunting grounds, as well as the establishment and distribution of compensation for the use of poaching protected species of game and hunting tickets. It should be noted that in the preparation of this law, alongside the working group, a large number of other interested entities participated, from environmental, veterinary, hunting users to international consultants engaged in the FAO project, to the development of the forestry sector in Serbia. More than 200 stakeholders participated in this way, including the largest contribution from the Hunting Union of Serbia. Many suggestions and remarks have entered the final version of the Bill on Wildlife and Hunting, so it is right to say that the proposed solutions in this law are the result of continued and constructive co-operation of several entities, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministries, to the Faculty of Forestry and the Hunting Union. Therefore, the SPS-JS Group considers that this law is prepared in a thorough manner to regulate the area of game and hunting, and in the voting day, we will support the proposed text of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law confirming the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, which was submitted for discussion for this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a very important step in the path that the Republic of Serbia needs to take to become a member of the International Organisation for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. It is known that this international organisation provides for the application of the system of protection of plant breeders' rights. As a result, it would largely encourage investment needed for the processing of plant varieties and for the production of seed and fruit material. Membership in this organisation would open up prospects for Serbia to establish interstate co-operation in the area of the processing of plant varieties and to benefit from benefits from the joint experience of the member states of the International Organisation for the Protection of New Plant Varieties. It is particularly important to point out that membership in this organisation will make available to our agricultural producers new protected varieties of plants and new cultivation technologies, creating realistic assumptions that they become more competitive on the domestic and world market. In addition to the reasons mentioned, it should also be pointed out that by adopting this law, the Republic of Serbia meets one of the conditions for membership in the World Trade Organisation. It is known that all members of the World Trade Organisation must ensure the protection of intellectual rights for plant varieties, so by accepting international standards in this area, we create normative assumptions that are fully acceptable to the World Trade Organisation. By defining the right of intellectual property, which protects new plant varieties, as well as the essential form of intellectual property, and as such is particularly adapted to the processing of plants, i.e. creating or detecting and developing new varieties of plants. The adoption of this law and the confirmation of the Convention will allow for the protection of the rights of processors in accordance with international standards, a prerequisite for the free exchange of reproductive material, as well as products created by the use of protected varieties between our country and other members of this international organisation. Agricultural producers will be able to access a large number of protected varieties which are now inaccessible to them, which are characterised by better production and technology properties, higher yields, disease resistance and pests. They will be given more economic production and reduced investment. The membership of the Republic of Serbia in this organisation will allow domestic producers and plant breeders to protect their rights in other countries, under the same conditions as in our country. And vice versa, that these rights of protection in our country by the highest standards, which apply to the member states of this organization. I would like to remind myself that the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties was brought to Paris on 2 December 1961 and changed to Geneva on 10 November 1972, on 23 October 1978 and on 19 March 1991, when its original version was adopted in English, French and German. The adoption of the law confirming this Convention has ensured that the text of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties is shown in the original English and translated into Serbian, thus ensuring the authenticity of this significant document. The firm determination of our parliamentary majority, and I would say to most citizens of Serbia, is that in our country we are developing and applying values and standards that have become practice and part of the national rights of most European countries. In achieving such a goal, we are also tasked with adopting already established international legal norms and conventions that regulate very different areas of social life. Among such tasks is the adoption of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties, which we should verify in this Parliament by adopting the law we are discussing today. It is another significant step in Serbia's path to become an equal partner in the international community. This is also the assumption that our citizens best show their creative and working abilities, to protect and verify their skills and to operate profitablely. For this reason, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group supports the bill's proposal and will vote on both of these laws in the voting day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36033	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Babic, after which Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36034	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the adoption of a new law on game and hunting was necessary because hunting has its rooted place in all categories of population, in all social classes in Serbia. The association of hunters with hunting organisations is based on equality and friendship and has a long tradition in Serbia dating back to 1887, when the first association of hunters called the Hunting Club was founded in Kragujevac. What I would particularly like to point out is that, if the social composition of membership is taken into account, it is free to say that rare social organisations are where such diversity of membership and equality in decision-making exist. In this proposal, there is also a positive shift in the law on game and hunting, which is to give the profession the opportunity to manage hunting grounds evenly with hunting societies, because the public undertakings referred to in Article 7(1) of this Act will issue hunting tickets for hunting grounds for special purposes, as well as hunting societies, which have only been issued so far. However, what this draft law should also enable is the conclusion of an agreement, i.e. the conclusion of a contract between the hunting grounds of special purposes and the hunting societies, by seizing funds from the membershipship of hunting societies and, of course, where both parties are interested. There have been such contracts before between national parks and the Serbs, on the one hand, and hunting companies, on the other hand. This would prevent the cleavage of hunting companies, and the income from hunting licences would be poured over to one part and to a hunting ground for a special purpose. The areas of today's hunting grounds in Serbia are small and fragmented, reaching the border deep in the territory, and it is known that for better and more successful hunting grounds, hunting sites should be built up. In Serbia, the largest number of hunting grounds has an area of 5,000 hectares and upwards. However, the bill stipulates that hunting grounds can be 2,000 hectares of land, and this sedation brings nothing good. Because if it is known that the radius of the movement of high savages exceeds the surface of 5,000 hectares, let alone 2,000 hectares, as this law provides, in practice, that is, by applying this law, it will happen that the same individuals of savages are recorded twice by adjacent hunting sites, so the plans for the shooting are thus multiplied by one and the same number of savages. Article 9, of this bill, you have provided for the establishment and operation of the Hunting Chamber. However, I do not agree with Article 4, which stipulates that funds are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the establishment and start of the work of the Chamber. The attack on the budget has many, there is an alliance, there are companies, now the Chamber is supposed to finance itself from the Republic of Serbia's budget for at least a year, which in my opinion is unacceptable. The confirmation of my interpretation is in article 14, of this bill, which defined the incomes of the Chamber. These revenues are indeed huge, which is why it is at the very least impertinent to demand additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget in addition to such revenues. Article 20 defines the status of game protection. I believe that such a legal solution is unscheduled, because in the Annex to the law it was meant to indicate what kind of savages have status of protection. It is also interesting that in the Bill of Wildlife and Hunting, where the writer of the law had no concrete solutions, he declared you, Mr. Minister, to be neither guilty nor debtor, to be competent. These trusted jobs are mostly of a professional nature, which should be solved through the Chamber, hunting alliances, scientific institutions, institutions and the like. If you had already predicted the establishment of the Chamber and if you wanted to justify the existence of the Chamber, then you should have given it certain powers. The bill also defines the notion of a permanent protected species of game as strictly protected species of game. However, in addition to the dry definition, it was necessary to specify, in addition to the application or addition of the law, which types or, at least, in which document or regulation are to be indicated or already listed on another legal basis. In the previous law, if I'm not mistaken, it was regulated by Article 4. In Article 30, you have defined that the hunting grounds may move persons armed with hunting weapons or equipped with other means of hunting, if they have a hunting ticket and a hunting permit. But if the legislator wanted to fully regulate this area, then, in addition to these conditions, he had to prescribe the obligation of a person in the hunting grounds to have a license to carry a hunting weapon, because otherwise, to avoid a situation if the person in the hunting grounds had one neat hunting card and a hunting license, and because of a certain excess, his license for carrying a weapon was taken away. It is unclear whether the status of such a person in a hunting ground would be legal or not. In Article 40(4), you also provided that the advantage of granting rights to the management of hunting grounds is to have a legal person who has the highest planned value of investment in hunting grounds in the investment programme. This raises the basic question – how is it being checked if the legal person can fulfill what he planned, promised, what did he commit? You did not define this legal solution that the property of a legal person or of a bank guarantee is a proof of the seriousness that the obligations undertaken will be fulfilled, because in this way you want to transfer the worst experiences from the privatisation of social enterprises. It was important to you that the state charged funds from the allocation of rights to the hunting grounds, and what happens after that with the hunting grounds doesn't matter. I'm afraid the hunting grounds will reach the same fate as most privatized social firms. This is how defined members 53, 54, 61, 64, 71, 74 and 89 devising the existence of the Chamber, because I believe that the work on the management of the cadastre of the hunting grounds, the central database, the publication of the annual report on the state of game and hunting, the identification of the number of hunting cards to be distributed, as well as the manner of training and the use of hunting dogs and the measures to prevent the damage to game, these are areas where the crucial word must have a profession, so these jobs should be entrusted to the Chamber, and not to how you define this bill. Because of all the outstanding remarks on the proposal for a law on hunting and savages, you cannot get the support of the Prosperity Group, Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36035	Seven minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Before we continue the work, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to inform you of confirming the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I would suggest that I confirm the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to allow his participation in the work of the National Assembly session. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Vladimir Ilic, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia-Boris Tadic. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Vladimir Ilic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to enter the O.R. We're going back to work. The word has a National MP Miroslav Marinkovic, after him Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36036	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda today, among other things, the law on game and hunting. The subject of my interest is especially this law, because it regulates the matter that is defined by it, the provision of sustainable management to the populations of savages and their habitats in a way and in a way that permanently mimics the preservation of certain species of game and their natural habitat and defined habitat. What is crucial to this law, that is, I noticed in previous debates, that it confuses hunters, and I am a member of a hunting organization, is that this law, or the subject of this law, is not the order of a hunting organization, but the organized management of hunting and resources that they mean. The aim of this law is thus fulfilled, because it is left to define its organisation in the way it suits it by the statute of the hunting organization. The general interest, and I would single out two interests that are particularly important, which is the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of the Hunting of the Republic of Serbia, which is crucial and most important in this whole situation, because one resource can be managed for the first time in an organised and long-term way, so it does not represent the political will, as presented in previous discussions, already represents a serious policy of hunting and resource management. In addition, for me it is an extremely important general interest to provide funds for the formation and maintenance of the information system on the population of savages and their habitats. This would lead to full knowledge of the number, species of game and their deployment on our country's territory, and thus by implementing this law, we could apply adequate measures to protect and preserve this population. Among other things, many projects and programmes implemented in countries in the environment and in the EU are immunisation against the rabies of certain animal species found in these hunting sites. In this way other services that are of general interest in the country are directly involved and are, in the extreme line, being preserved... Let's say hello to the MP first, so that... (Applause sent to the newly elected MP who enters the hall. )......................................................................................................... and the health status and number of savages on a particular field. It is also very important that what this law adopts is that we have two-stage, conservation of governance, or the operation of hunting inspection in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which is directly responsible to the legislator in the second degree, or the Minister of Agriculture in charge of the implementation of this law. What I particularly want to point out, because I think this is an extremely good law, is that the adoption of this strategy and the change of organisation, or the adoption of the law itself, does not require additional resources, and the appropriate situation in which we are, therefore, will not burden the country's budget financially and the adoption of this law does not mean the establishment of new organisations, as in some situations it has been the case. I believe that this law is extremely good, that it represents a civilizational approach to European legislation and I would like to express my personal gratitude to the Ministry of Agriculture, which, from the previous 15, 16 laws, which have already been adopted, has continued the trend of harmonising legislation with European legislation, which is a fundamental assumption of the good and efficient business of our economy, and thus the export of agricultural products to the European market. I pray that all MPs, as I have concluded in the previous debate and on the Committee on Agriculture, did not have a fundamental disagreement with the law, but rather some objections, amendments improve the quality of this law and that in the day of the vote we all plead for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36037	Five minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk MP Milan Veselinovic, followed by Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have on the agenda another legislative project on which they have objections not only to the opposition's MPs, but also to the committee responsible for regulating this legal matter. I will focus my discussion on some issues that did not allow this law to be on the agenda today and, in general, in the congregation procedure. Namely, from the scrupulous presentation of the minister, who seems to me never to have dealt with matter, and the question is how much his advisors know matter, it can be seen that this law is decisive at speed, perhaps with consultation only with the president of the Hunting Union of Serbia and several people around it, who have well-inhabited, have good salaries and have probably given support. As an older hunter, let me say from the age of 15 to 16, a man who deals with this sport and hobby, and I was also a member of many shooting clubs, this is still a sport, until now has been so defined, and now they want to turn it into a business society, and my lack of exposure and objections wants to convince the legislator, or those who have proposed this law, that they should have pulled him out of this procedure. In fact, the very fact that there are 75,000 to 100,000 hunters in Serbia today is saying that they are mostly very serious people, who in some way stand out from others in terms of getting firearms, and we know what the procedure is that one citizen today may have hunting-sports weapons. People deployed by the Hunting Union of Serbia through hunting associations, down to some sections covering Serbia's terrain, will today be damaged, above all, in their rights, both in social and economic terms and in sports terms, to continue to play sports. Not everyone may be at risk, but the good part will, because we know that this number of 75,000, to which the ministry's barata, is to be added by about 30% of citizens who didn't have to pay an annual hunting ticket, which costs 100 euros and up, and lovers are this sport and hunting. If we consider that in this one of the most massive sports in our country, people of reputation, hosts, and if we consider that their property, which hunting associations have acquired in the last 50 years, will be compromised, I believe that the Ministry and the legislator had reason to come much more seriously to this matter. Much, much more serious. Now, to conduct a Serbian-level survey on this law, I'm not sure this law would get 10% past, but, well, everyone has their own claim, and we who do it directly, we know it best. It's been said here that this law has been being prepared for five years. Oh, God, this law has been really preparing for five months. Why no consultations have been carried out with the model hunting associations that Serbia has, especially in the Vojvodina area, so that, based on these opinions, a law that would be acceptable to all. Another reason why this law should not have been found in the assembly procedure is the lack of laws following this law, which is the law on forests, the water industry of Serbia, agricultural land, to say that hunters also use the land of religious communities, private land, travel land, etc. It's all unregulated. This law, as a warner, will surely not be experienced, as they say – the sun of the day, nor will it be applied in practice. One of my colleagues said that perhaps after the disintegration of the army, which you have destroyed in the last ten years, this is an army of armed men. The fact is, it's serious matter, serious people. If one hunter can also possess several types of weapons, hunting, normal, but also types of weapons, such as carabin, where the range of grains and missiles exceeds five thousand meters, and if we multiply it by this number, it is one mass of weapons that people possess, so some provisions of this bill and the Arms and Ammunition Act were to be aligned. Now, on the basis of several factors, the authorities of the Hunting Union of Serbia, which had until now had a period of good work, were jeperiods when money was manipulated there by hunters mostly for the annual map or the monthly, or the daily map, therefore, these assets are taken away from the Hunting Union, and hunting associations are forced to become business associations, some companies, and neither are regulated property nor the status of these hunting associations that so far had the character of sport associations. It is neither explicitly defined nor mentioned. I believe that this law, as it is, cannot meet the needs of hunters, and if you adopt it quickly, it will experience its changes and additions, but I would like to say that anyone who deals with this problem, or wants to deal with this problem, needs much deeper into the essence of the problems that hunters in Serbia have. If we're talking hunting master, there are special problems. We have in the territory of Serbia, where the owners of the large part of the "Serbishum" hunting grounds are part of the water industry, then, private land, road land, we have land of religious communities, and if now that chamber you plan to organise as an agency, or I don't know, some body, as you professionally call it, I think there will be major disputes, because, first of all, no property-legal relations are resolved. If we're going to betray the Park of Nature to someone, and it's probably gonna be some tycoon or some stranger, they're going to have trouble with those peasants who have property there, where both the highways and the local roads pass through those hunting grounds, so they're going to have problems with all those who have their property there and own it. Now the Hunting Association will seek a hunting card, go hunting in that space that someone has leased, while passing through the space where someone else owns it, whether private persons, natural persons or any other legal person, and now here you create confusion among hunters, among associations, about the protection and the cultivation of savages themselves, and about territory. There will be a conflict between hunters and that, normally, with some hunter or forest guard, must be resolved by the police, and then by the judicial authorities. These confusions will follow safely in this year or next, when all this comes into effect, and then the epilogue of all of this will be a fight, hatred, judgment, confiscation of weapons, etc. In view of the hunting service itself and the intelligence and hunting services, this law is more like military law than it is about some sports associations or lovers of hunting and people whose hobby is hunting. You gave such instructions to the hunting inspector, and then to the hunter, that the police didn't have them either. If you read what authority the hunter has, you'll see that he's also able to stop the police who are going through that territory. It states that he should disarm the hunters and bring them to the organ, imagine. I don't know what the power of a hunter to bring in maybe 10 or 20 hunters to a competent authority, which is Serbia's MUP. Instead of keeping previous positions where these powers are transferred to the owner of the hunting grounds, or to the association to which this hunting ground belongs, they own their board of directors, they have their own commissions, even, the disciplinary commissions, so that they take their own steps, normally, after taking legal measures, in terms of criminal and judicial measures. This is how you bring the police, the MUP, and the associations, into an unenviable position, and that's where those unwanted things and problems happen. In the end, there are also my colleagues who have said a lot about this, told the truth, I want to call the minister, and I should have listened to the Committee that did not give consent to this law, to listen to both the position and the opposition, that this legal project should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, that it should be done, that it should be served primarily by those who use this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36039	It has been used since the time of the parliamentary group of twelve minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36040	Dear People's MP, Mr. Veselinovic, don't mind me not getting up after writing, I followed your presentation carefully, so I'd just like some things to be determined. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your suggestions. I think any good suggestion can improve the law, and through the form of an amendment, when they are adopted. I'd just like to ask you for a few things about your suggestions. We have consulted, of course, with hunting alliances, and you said we should consult, alongside hunting alliances, and with model hunting societies. If you could just a little bit closer to explaining to me how we're going to make the criteria for determining which hunting societies are exemplary and which aren't exemplary, so we can do that eventually. The second thing, could you specifically define the members of the law that you have objections to and say, what would it be good to change, just to make it easier for us? I understand some discussion, but I'd like to ask you, when we consider the law in particular, to deal with it. I wanted to ask you a few more things. As far as intelligence is concerned, you are generally against the fact that a hunter can stop and disarm a person who is in illegal hunting, or poaching. Right? That's right. In other words, I don't know if you understand, that's how you advocate that a man who hunts illegally in a hunting grounds is older than a hunter. In other words, you're fighting for the rights of poachers, not for the man who's here to protect the savage and the law. I don't know if you know this, but poachers are very often dangerous people. These weapons are very often pointed not only at the game but also at the hunter. I think we should let a poacher do his job and disarm these people, because that weapon is used in an act that is not legal and, of course, to bring this man in so that this man can answer for what he's been doing. I'd like to ask two more questions, just out of my curiosity. You say you're a 15-year-old hunter. How could you carry a weapon when you were 15? As far as I know, it's not legal. The second thing, regarding the laws to be passed, we have a list of laws that will be passed, there are some 13 laws waiting in the Assembly for adoption, but I couldn't find anywhere in the list the law on forests, the water industry of Serbia, which you mentioned, so if you can explain that to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36041	National MP Milan Veselinovic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36042	I only have two minutes. It would take me two hours to explain everything, because it's about a man who doesn't know this matter, really. Mr. Secretary misunderstood or deliberately spoke of everything I've commented on. I'll tell Mr. Minister that we've written the amendments, I think there are 51, and from these amendments you can see what we want and where we have objections. I haven't worn a gun since I was 15 years old, I went with my cousins, and I had the right to go without a gun, I was a hell of a man, I got a gun. Secondly, what you're asking about hunting, I wanted to apostrophee to stand there – right away, police are being notified, this one is being notified, the one being notified. I'm saying, because of unresolved property-legal relations, in terms of hunting grounds, that these incidents and conflicts can occur, which we have today, but there are hunting associations that have their own board of directors, they have their own disciplinary committees. First they report it, then they move on, the police are the last thing, if the life of a hunter is at stake. I mean, what you want to centralize all things and what you want when some stranger gets there in my Golia to hunt for the hunter to be the one who can take out everyone else. Whether it's a peasant who owns land in that area or the forest, that's what's bothering us, and that's what you're going to do right away next year through the tender, and especially with the public enterprises that run those hunting grounds. In that sense, I wanted to talk, I don't know how much you understood me. Now, if you want me to say it openly, Mr. Minister, not only this law, but all the laws that you bring to a shortcut like this, across your knees, they can't get in practice application. I know you don't know this matter. Here, come to a hunting association that's been running for 50 years with some hunting space, you'll see how intertwined that property is. So far, the hunter could have gone over someone's land outside, and now it's 200 meters, as we said. Now, let's see, now that we've produced this land, who's going to and how it's going to come up with a hunting ground that's been issued to some legal or physical person. I'm saying that before that matter had to be solved legally, not only in terms of "Serbishuma," which I was saying, maybe you misunderstood me, but there are a lot of billing that should have been dealt with in advance, in order to get this law that regulates this matter. This is how we're all confused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36043	The word has a folk MP Miletic Mihajlovic, followed by Otto Kišmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36044	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, co-workers at the Ministry of Agriculture, respected MPs, this law that is before us is certainly very important and in its content and concept is one step forward and one greater quality in regulating this sphere, this activity. Certainly, the SPS-JS will actually support this law. The law is comprehensive and it is certainly appropriate to what standards and achievements are in this area, in the international community, respects new attitudes and new views of what this area is, and within one broader area and topic, and that is ecology, and all laws dealing with this issue. The reasons for the adoption of this law, in addition to bringing it into line with international conventions and developments in this area in the international area, is that it is also a comparison of this law to a set of environmental laws and it cannot be seen separately. Of course, the law that has been in force so far has shown some weaknesses and conditioned that there are a number of problems that new legal provisions should take away from practice. We have an unsatisfactory state, as you yourself have said, in what resources in this area, above all, the situation in the game population, and in fact, many of the outdated ways of regulating this matter could not provide an adequate response in preventing even the devastion of certain natural resources, which are present in hunting and in nature. We have a 1993 Law called the Hunting Law, and now we have a law on game and hunting. We think the name is already talking about something that's important to the difference and the essence and concept of the law, where the gamer is first mentioned and then hunting, as something that can be used based on what's in nature. This speaks of one concept that in this law we have a general interest that is above any action, and that interest is equated with national interest, which takes care of natural resources and which should not be used only today and tomorrow, but should also be taken into account in the future, or put to use future generations. The law shows that these are issues that are not only regulated on the basis of some relationships in some associations or some associations, but that is also a question of science. It is very important that science and these achievements are used to regulate this matter, because laymanically, for example, inserting some types of alochtons where nature has said that they do not belong to them can cause a series of disorders in what is a biological balance and affecting biodiversity negatively. All we can think of is an example of Australia, what happened to the Dingo dog who was tasked with protecting farmers from rabbits, and then he went wild and caused various food chain disorders, and in the end, the man had severe consequences again. Of course, it's important that we can't treat hunting as an economic branch that will exploit certain resources for some profit, it can't be primary, it can only be secondary, in accordance with natural law and with what's in the ultimate line and this law that takes care of all that. In law, I'd say, it's not about primary hunters or hunting associations or any other subject. They are important if they are part of this system that regulates one matter in an appropriate and adequate way to preserve what is natural wealth, diversity and resources and not just for today but for tomorrow. Once again, I will say that the SPS-JS, in fact, the MPs of this parliamentary group will certainly support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36045	Six minutes have been used 10 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been sent to Otto Kishmarton, followed by Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36046	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, the law on game and hunting is certainly necessary. Of course, it certainly is necessary to bring our laws in line with EU laws to an extent that corresponds to our country and to the citizens of Serbia. That's okay. The law on game and hunting needs to be modernised, brought closer to European laws, and that's fine. We bear in mind that so far we have adopted many European laws, but in practice these European laws could not be fully applicable, because it is easier to change the laws than our habits, customs, traditions and other values. While in economically developed countries rich people, such as sports, recreation or sign, are engaged in hunting and fishing for people of different economic strengths. We have poor people who do hunting and fishing, and families, by tradition and grandfathers and fathers and sons. It's one of the most important forms of survival. We also have economically stronger citizens engaged in hunting and fishing for sport, pleasure or prestige. This group of citizens is less interested in this law, because they will hunt with both this law and without this law in the country and abroad. In developed countries hunting and fishing is expensive sport and not everyone can deal with this sport. We cannot fully implement European laws with us without this resulting in consequences that will not suit the citizens of Serbia. This law certainly has good intentions in order to preserve game, nature, as well as the arrangements of hunting grounds in general, but I am afraid that this law will create a condition that hunting associations and hunting grounds will move to managing those who can afford more money to rent hunting grounds, including associations. These are our new rich men who will be able to use hunting grounds by law and for their own purposes. This law can lead to hunters running out of hunting ground, which wouldn't be good. We certainly need hunters, fishermen in as many numbers as possible, because they not only hunt game but feed them, guard them, control their numbers, and at the same time keep game from poachers and fish from fish thieves, but also play a very important role in nature conservation. The ministry must also make sure that it enables all those who meet the legal requirements to be able to deal with the hunt in the future. Of course, anything that isn't right needs to be changed in law, and what works doesn't need to be touched. Dear Minister, I believe we have the same goal, which is to improve the hunting grounds and preserve nature. The only difference is in the way that we want to achieve that goal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36047	It's been used for three minutes and 15 seconds. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36048	I just want to thank Mr. Otto Kishmarton for the discussion. Our goal is the same. As far as hunting grounds are concerned, the criteria are very important. What is particularly important is how much will be invested in the hunting grounds themselves and thus the preservation of flora and fauna is done and for this reason such law and such a proposal is in the law. As far as the amendments are concerned, I absolutely agree that some amendments will contribute to the better quality of the law, and I have already agreed with the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture in the break that some amendments will be accepted, in the debate in particular we will see. The ministry will indeed try to make every amendment that contributes to better quality of the law come into contact and be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36049	The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz, followed by Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36050	Dear Ministers, Madam Chairman, as SPO MP on the list for Europe's Serbia, I will try to focus on two basic topics which are subject to this legislative regulation. The object is savage, but the work of hunting. Of course, in the changing of each law, and when a fixed regime is changed that there are various interests, of those interests that the existing state of affairs is changing, and it seems to me that no one today has told me that the existing situation in hunting is satisfactory, everyone agrees that it is overcome, there are stakeholders who want that the existing state of change, and there are certainly interests that change this situation better. We have accepted these basic EU recommendations on hunting and hunting, but the EU's hunting system is very diverse, even within one of the same EU Member States there are different hunting systems, such as Switzerland, Italy, France, etc. In Switzerland, this depends on cantons to cantons, and Italy and France follow the traditions of certain areas, given the historical, cultural and traditional forms of behavior of hunters and organizations of hunters themselves and of game breeding and care, they fully and in the most modern legal solutions respect that tradition. Since I am an MP representing, in any case, the interests of the list for European Serbia and the SP, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the citizens who voted for our list, I think it is nice to remind ourselves that it is right around Kragujevac, in the village of Brzan, 1896, in the then state hunting ground of King Milan Obrenovic, which was called "Kosuta", there today we have a motel "Kosuta", established hunting alliance and hunting association as the first organization of hunters. Before that, savages in Serbia were abundant. Knez Milos Obrenović and Mihajlo Obrenović, when they estimated that certain species of game were particularly endangered, made special orders, for example, for the ban on hunting for deer, koshut, deer, etc., but today hunting, primarily, binds to the category of city population and elite. I agree with the previous speaker, hunting is the work that all social strata and people of different educational structures are dealing with, and thus the public's interest in this law is quite large. The first hunters in Serbia were farmers. For two reasons. They carried the most common weapons with them, protected their crops, and the savages were abundant, but they often protected their lives. The hunt in Serbia has its golden period from 1896 to 1903, when the game was first introduced into the hunting grounds and lived. They were, if I'm not mistaken, rabbits and goats. The hunting system in Serbia has been constantly improved. We today seem to have, in relation to all previous solutions, the best proposal for how offices should apply in that sphere of social life that the state is interested in. There are also systems in which game is free. The state doesn't consider itself a game owner. This is where the state took over the regulatory role, Malten, to regulate the basic postulates of hunting, as a roof law. What was expected by hunting associations, which was not regulated by this law, is that this law also regulates what should have been regulated by the statutes of the association, and even the fees for membership, distribution of profits, etc. It's not the job of this law, and that's why all kinds of criticisms of this kind are, I think, completely unfounded. On the other hand, there have been complaints about renting a hunting ground with fear that this will alienate the property of people who have mostly made hunting homes with their means and a number of objects that are related to the farming and protection of savages. That is simply not going to happen, and in this regard was the amendment to the Hunting Union of Serbia, when the Association Act was adopted. This law does not regulate property-legal relations. We think that in the tender, when it's called for the boss of a particular hunting area, whoever previously bossed and who gave the best conditions will certainly have the opportunity to continue to run this area. However, remarks are also made that if a rich man takes it, that hunting area will be left without savages, that the state will do nothing in that sense and that, according to one mosquito, hunters will be able to hunt mosquitoes afterwards. That's just not true. There's inspection surveillance, there's surveillance of hunters, there's a supervision of experts, as no objection has been established in the sense that some of their policies, as far as hunting is concerned, will be led by inspectors on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We think it's a good thing that inspection surveillance, as far as hunting grounds in Vojvodina are concerned, is being carried out by inspectors from Vojvodina, but in a second-degree procedure, it's again overseeing the Ministry. In any case, if you hear only these statements, and you have no idea whether the state, the Ministry, etc., are fully controlling the situation in hunting, then indeed, someone who is uninformed or not understanding matter enough can say that these are bad solutions. The SPO believes that all the solutions in the law are good, that they fully respect what exists today as a state of affairs in Serbia and that in a year we will see the good consequences of this law. In just one more sentence, I will use the presence of the minister and his cabinet and ask them in front of the SPO, given the situation in agriculture, it is what it is, and it is bad, the situation of our peasants is extremely bad, and the situation of peasants in the EU is difficult in both the world's most developed countries and where there are much greater subsidies and reliefs that the state gives them, in the coming year when the budget is adopted, is committed to making the agricultural budget significantly higher, and in that sense they will have full support from the SPP MPs. In the end, I will say that, as the right hand side of the list of ZES, in the voting day, for many reasons, we will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36051	Eight minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin has the word, and after him Srdjan Milivojević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on game and hunting. Given that we had a bit of an awkward situation on the Committee on Agriculture, here is how the Committee’s argument on why this law should be passed. That would say about how much I managed to write it down. He says -- "A new law on game and hunting is necessary in the Republic of Serbia, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, widely accepted international standards, confirmed international conventions, the Nature Protection Act, laws in the veterinary field and other laws with which the hunting area has common points. "If we look at it, it would be absolutely fine, but only for the SRS is wrong because we are working on international standards first, and when we say international standards, the EU means. Unfortunately, we will have to pass many more, many, many laws by that year 2017, as they tell us about when we will enter the EU, you will vote them, and Serbia will probably be in the EU. I'd like to take a look at that previous law called the 1993 Hunting Law. What is it that doesn't make him so good now – because he can't meet all these international standards, international conventions, about protecting nature, not to list what I've already said in the opening part. For comparison, I'm going to do an analysis of this 1993 law, unfortunately, I don't have much time, but I'm going to try to be concise and in accordance with my story on this law, let's say, in this old law, it's the law of the Hunting Union of Serbia to run a hunting ground through a hunting association that must be... etc. to manage hunting grounds. It's like some negative thing back then. Furthermore, he says -- a hunting ticket for a tiny gamer betrays Serbia's Hunting Union. Negative, like, for then. Then, he says, hunting game for hunters from hunting associations who are members of the Hunting Union at privileged prices, 20% of the market value for small gamers, and 30% of the market value for large game at the price of the Hunting Union of Serbia. It's as if that savage is the property of a hunting alliance. There is no provision for a fee for the use of natural wealth. There is no enforceable procedure for sanctioning the bad business of hunting users, for example, in the event of a reduction in game funds, no financial compensation is provided for the confiscation of hunting grounds or some other measure. In this old law, professional and hunting services are subordinated to people who are not professionally engaged in hunting, and the number of persons in the professional and hunting service is not foreseen by a sublegal act, so that the users of the hunting ground are then, on the basis of the 1993 law, employed by a minimum of employees who are not sufficient for quality management of the land, resulting in hunting grounds of over 50,000 hectares on which jobs are carried out by only one professional person and one hunter, and we have hunting grounds whose surface exceeds 120 thousand hectares. The 1993 Hunting Law did not define the security of the implementation of certain provisions, such as the provision that a hunting area could be established. It was written there – a hunting area can be established, while you are now, in this law, putting on one sentence – 'hunting areas'. I want to prove that some things won't make sense. They did not provide deadlines for the implementation of certain provisions, such as the example of the catch catastra, the signing of a contract on the allocation of hunting grounds, the adoption of sublegal acts, which have never been implemented or were with a dramaticly large delay which left unconvincing and negative consequences for hunting in the Republic. But let's start with what this new law is covered or expelled, and in fact I think it's completely done and done. It says – game is now state property, because it is good of general interest and natural wealth, which means it is under the protection of the state. So, in that 1993 law, we have a completely different story. Then, a Strategy for the Development of the Hunting of the Republic of Serbia is being adopted. A budget fund is now being introduced for the development of the Republic of Serbia's hunting and the budgetary fund for the development of the hunting of autonomous provinces. I'd have to stop there, but, unfortunately, some have already talked about it. We will bring the law here, and someone will draw from this law and subdue what is in the interest of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. That's my thinking. To continue, a budget fund is being introduced for the development of hunting for the Republic of Serbia and a budgetary fund for the development of the hunting of autonomous province, which is financed from revenue generated from fees for the use of poaching protected species of game and hunting ticket compensation, which is in line with this new law, and whose funds are used to improve hunting development. Next, by declaring the hunting of protected species of game, the duration of the hunting season for poaching protected species of gamers is being established in hunting areas. This law will be passed, most will vote, but I fear, as I live in the AP Vojvodina, in northern Serbia, that they will do something else entirely. I'll give you an example that they did something else. It states exactly what hunting grounds mean and where and how hunting sites are established. It is said – by natural means, which are rivers and forests, and even mention highways, etc., if you can't find your way to the establishment in some other way. But if you look at just an example of Bob village, a populated place on the Tisa River, we have 2,000 acres of land on the Backside, that popular skeleton that serves as a "little Hollywood" and it's through Churug. These 2,000 acres were taken from us and given to the "Eck's Fishing Land", which is 70 kilometers away from us by air. On the farm land, potatoes, or just vegetable crops, are mostly sown. So, where does the deer feed? Then where's last year's food? Where does the pheasant feed? Where does that rabbit feed? They come from Eck's Fishing Land, and they've been using it so far, I don't know, I think something's used by the Toads Community, Churug, etc. It shows what the border really represents, because Tisa once didn't go there, that flow is fixed, there's still fertile land used for two cultures over the year, and that's adorned by this Taras that's known for the production of potatoes and cabbage. To move on, hunting sites of special purpose are being established, the Catastre of the hunting grounds and the Central Database are being established, but it is evident that you will also have to hire people in this basic cadastre. Someone's gonna have to get into that part. Then, the Hunting Chamber is formed. You heard my opinion. I'm afraid that chamber has both the assembly and the supervisory authority, etc., it's one company, and if one company has a board of directors, then this would literally be an assembly in this company that even has a board of directors. That state will participate financially, for God's sake, only until the Chamber is formed and when it leaves will it be financed from other sources. I'd like it to be so, it doesn't come out of the pockets of Serbian citizens. Licensing is being introduced. This is where the question arises – who is in charge? You gave an explanation here, but we're still skeptical about it. It also states that the state is the bearer of the general law for hunting that is subject to the conditions laid down by law, with the compensation for the use of poaching protected species of game, transferred to the users of the hunting grounds. The definition of individual hunting rights, as well as the marking of caught game, is being introduced. I really don't want to comment, but it's known that a certain savage is coming to some people's houses who shouldn't be doing it. Then, the planning documents for hunting sites, under the conditions laid down by the State, produce a legal person registered for the performance of these operations, with a licensed person. Furthermore, more clearly defining the damage caused by game and game damage, setting deadlines for the implementation of certain provisions and mechanisms, provisions which determine that hunting chambers, sublaws and similar acts must be formed in the established hunting areas, and all such acts must be carried out in accordance with the law. I've got a little time left. I'd like to tell you, Mr. Minister, something that doesn't make sense to me. I said, around those limits. I must tell you one more thing, bans – Article 22, says: "It is forbidden: 1) to endanger the survival of savages in nature and its habitats. "You have a shipyard 15km from Zrenjanin, which works and works, privately. It's by the old stream of the Begei River and it's right next to the Tsar Bar. I'm asking you, is there going to be a lot of these indigenous species of game left, when we know what kind of noise a shipyard makes? What's a little funny to me, Minister, is said in Article 22 point ''7) to harvest and mow agricultural machines that do not have built-in exorcision devices, i.e. fearing savages. '"Mr. Minister, if that van needs one, next to that engine and that noise, something more that we have to ring, then I don't know what we should do? It is evident that last year he suffered from wheat, especially in the case of the Lucerca, also the pheasant and the rabbits, especially if they are small hunting sites, etc. I can't understand what I'm supposed to do. Should we, like our ancestors, take that bell, well, go ahead and ring the bell? I really don't know. I don't know what you thought, I'd like you to answer what it is that a farmer should do when he sits in a work machine further next to that noise to do so that he might eventually drive out the deer, flax, rabbit, pheasant, etc. Since I'm out of time, I'm sorry, I'm finishing up so that my colleagues can discuss and make some of their contributions to this proposal for a law on game and hunting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36053	It was used 13 minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36054	I would like to thank Mr. Krstin for going very carefully through the justification for the adoption of the law on game and hunting, with special reference to the negativity of the applicable law. As for suggestions, absolutely all suggestions that will contribute to a better law will be accepted. As far as savage scarecrows are concerned, these are devices that exist and in all laws in neighbouring countries, the provision is also in place. Devices exist and can be obtained. They're not expensive, and that's not a big deal. They serve to raise the game so it doesn't stay under the combine, let's say, as you know, it happens very often already. The rule will be defined, which, of course, is the suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36055	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojević has the word after him, Radiš Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36056	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, when we pass a law in Serbia very often, the opposition's criticisms are unargued that we are passing the law to defend ourselves in power, in order to meet some expectations and requirements I don't know who from everything. Let me tell you right now, when this government, in which it has the greatest responsibility of the DS, is passing the law, because of the Republic of Serbia, all its resources, not to be a dead letter on paper, but to be applicable and to be enforceable in practice, because by law we strengthen the institutions of this country and skip two steps on the way to Europe, and that road is not easy at all. If you are bored, if you do not like listening to what we say to you, I will remind you of a famous saying. Blessed is he who has something to say, and woe to him who has something to say and has no one. That's why I speak to people from the government and citizens of Serbia. I had one fundamental objection to this law. Here, when I read the law, in Article 9, it is said – it is formed the Hunting Chamber, it is very good. I'll remind you that I'm a graduate farm engineer for livestock, that I've had the subject of hunting, fishing. at the Faculty of Agriculture, but, I believe, I consulted people, just before my friend, a student from Cačka, says – why is the headquarters of the Chamber in Belgrade, why is it not the headquarters of the chamber in Kruševec or in Cačka? If we are in favour of decentralisation of Serbia, it would be good to carry out this decentralisation essentially through the removal of certain institutions in the Republic of Serbia. As a Kruševljan, I would be very proud to have the headquarters of the Chamber in Kruševec, Chačka or the King, but above all, Kruševec. On the other hand, the law is very well done and represents one basis to protect our resources. I think very well-defined criminal provisions are in this law. I think it's a very well-defined way of bossing these bosses, that the law is professionally prepared, but about the expertise of preparing this law I'm not talking about from the point of view of the profession, that's what my colleagues from the opposition who are attacking on the subject that we, or I don't know who in this country, hunting areas or hunting grounds are going to sell to who. The hunting resources of the Republic of Serbia remain the hunting resources of the Republic of Serbia! I may be given to managing someone, but it will never be sold to anyone I don't know who here under what conditions a dark savage and our nature destroys and what God has given us. We shall preserve this law first and foremost, for the criminal provisions of this law are provided for both hunters and hunters. Penalties aren't small at all, penalties aren't naive. Penalty prevention in Serbia is sometimes a good prevention, because we are a country where everyone condemned that dragon traffic safety law. Go to the streets of Belgrade. Belgrade is today a city that lights, not bright cities, primarily lighted by drivers who lit their lamps so as not to pay the fine. They've all tied their seat belts. When this law is passed, it will also apply to the Kruševac hunters and to the Leskovci hunters and to the New Sad hunters and to those who come from abroad to hunt, but also to those who manage these hunting grounds. I think a lot of things have already been said about this law, that a lot of good provisions have been implemented in it and I think it's good for the opposition to understand the value of this law, to vote for this law, to ennoble it with amendments. I expect these amendments to be handed over, not only to be critical of the law, according to the Ministry, to be present in public, in order to please the voters. It's good to have constructive criticism... (Employees comment, from the bench, in the O.R. Well, Mr. Nikolic, you've been an MP for a long time, you know how to submit the amendments. If you haven't learned that in 19 years, then it's time to retire. I think the law is very good and that the law is applicable and that the law is one of Serbia's good indications towards Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36057	Four minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36058	I just asked Mr. Milivojevic how he suggested that we submit amendments to the bill after an open debate. I didn't mean to offend him. I think he's insulting our mind. And as for that pension, in time you DS suggest it, let me leave, at least, after Micunovic. Your political boss is 100 years old, and you're forcing me into 58. [[Laughter and applause.]] It doesn't make sense. And who would beat you if I retired?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36059	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic, followed by Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on game and hunting, which, for a wonderful miracle, is being considered not because of some European Union directives and the conclusions of the European Commission, but because, as the Proposer puts it, respecting the general national interest in game and its habitats. Since we have already arranged the Army, the economy, local self-government, education, culture, the Statute of Vojvodina, it remains that the Government shows national pride and dignity through this law on game and hunting and clearly tells citizens that no one will order and prescribe how many and how we will hunt rabbits, pheasants, quails and so on. Reading your explanation, and this is the last paragraph, gives the impression that some incompetent, unprofessional people in this area worked before this bill, where everything was destroyed and destroyed, but I don't think everything is that black. In this way, a huge army of our citizens, lovers of hunting, enthusiasts who ran hunting associations, raised hunting grounds, protected game, managed hunting grounds, whether it was hunting societies or employees of the Public Business of the Serbian Republic. I'm just going to quote what the government is saying in an explanation that describes the situation in the hunt so far. "The unreal, unbiased and unprofessional display of the real qualitative and quantitative state of game in the hunting grounds, as well as of the hunting grounds themselves, and thus the professionally poorly designed plans made in discontinuity, as well as inconsistencies in application, and often inapplicable plans pointed to the need to find more suitable solutions for game and its habitats, and thus more appropriate management of wildlife populations." Hunters could hear firsthand what the government of the Republic of Serbia thought of them. If we now return to the law and to the analysis of individual members, although the SRS MPs have submitted certain amendments, in order to essentially improve this bill. What first fell into my eyes, and probably to the other MPs who read this bill, is an absolute division of jurisdiction, not to say territory. If we remember all those comments when adopting the Statute of Vojvodina, now that story makes some sense and slowly through all these laws and some future laws realize what we were afraid of. It is similar with the proposal for a forest law, which we recently received from the government. I have written down only some parallel powers mentioned by this law, and where they appear, maltenes, as equal partners of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as you stated in the law. Where do we have that? For example, the way in which hunting areas and hunting grounds are set up, Article 34; in the regulation of the grant of rights to fisheries management contracts, Article 41; in the regulation of leases, Article 43; hunting area development programme, Article 46; hunting cards, Article 61; hunting rights acts, Article 65; budgetary funds for hunting development, parallel, Article 78; damage compensation, Article 88, etc. This is only part of the annualally selected cases of a collision between the Ministry and the provincial authority, but here, probably, because of the peace in the house, everyone will turn their heads and not discuss it. In Article 4, which refers to the meaning of the term, there is a lot of vague and ambiguous interpretation of these very terms that can cause major problems and people who are the owner of hunting and users of their services, as well as judicial authorities. For example, let's take point 34) in Article 4 which defines the term "areas outside the hunting grounds", where it is said that these are areas of "the narrow areas of cities in the Republic of Serbia, without suburban settlements and highways". This is a clear example of how someone can be led astray. If we interpret this in the language of the law, it turns out that this applies only to administrative units – cities, alongside Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, these are now Kruševac, Vranje, Šabac, Valjevo, Čačak, Zaječar, Jagodina etc. Now it turns out that they are being treated completely separately, let's say, Jagodina, which is a city and Paracino, which is a municipality, which has less than 20,000 inhabitants compared to the entire city area of Jagodina. There are many such examples in Serbia, and therefore SRS MPs have proposed an amendment that defines areas outside the hunting grounds as areas of populated areas covered by regulations in the area of urbanism, as well as highways. The promoter has given a special place in this bill to a new organisation in the hunting system, which is the Hunting Chamber. In the SRS' view, it is another ballast for the state as well as for all legal and physical entities involved in the activities concerning the management and use of hunting grounds, as well as control of the compliance of this law. Additional expenditure, expenses, new membership fees to get another hunting organization, is really unnecessary at this point. Article 8 refers to the affairs of the hunting alliance, which lists only three categories of jobs, namely: the education of the Committee for the Review of Wildlife Tropics, the care of large-value game trophies and the education of the National Commission for Exhibitions and Tropics. However, whether or not they have been accidentally or intentionally taken into account some of the jobs that we in the SRS believe must be done by the Hunting Union, which is also a member of the International Hunting Council, which are, above all, the collection and processing of hunting data on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the education of the hunting examination committee, the issuing of a conviction on the hunting test and the distribution of hunting tickets for hunting grounds in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that so far, there have been responsible experts working in the Hunting Union of Serbia who have fulfilled everything the law has imposed, as well as government regulations. That is why by adding these several new commitments, according to the SRS, wants to complete their work, as well as a general demonstration of the real situation on the ground. Hunting is, in fact, one very important activity, from the point of view of general security and security. Each of us knows well that every hunter needs a firearm or other weapon, like, a crossbow, used in hunting. Given that in recent years the Government has passed a series of laws concerning, above all, the security of citizens, as well as certain amendments to the Criminal Law, relating to the use of firearms, should certainly take into account the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs as a new member of 63a, as regards the right to pass a hunting test and thus the rights to carry and use hunting weapons. Therefore, the SRS suggests that a hunting trial cannot be passed, I shall state what is in our amendment: "1) which, in the last 5 years, has been sentenced to a sentence of imprisonment for a period of one year; 2) which has been convicted in the last 10 years of a criminal conviction; 4) which has been prosecuted for the unauthorized use of weapons and violent conduct; 5) which, in the last 5 years, has been convicted of criminal acts of violence; 6) which, in the last 10 years, has been convicted of violent conduct for a prison sentence of more than one year. "I will state only one example that is well known to you, which is a tragedy that took place a few years ago in the Nectine village of Jabukovac, where the face, precisely thanks to the fact that it owned a hunting rifle, committed a terrible crime by killing nine of its locals and neighbours. We understand that this will not completely stop the use of hunting weapons, but it will certainly contribute to the reduction of the crimes of this species. Article 29. The bill refers to the protection of game from dogs and cats without owners or without the control of owners. It's a bit of an odd archaic suggestion that he cares about animals in this law, but that he cares about the same animal welfare act. I will quote Article 29, paragraph 1, which says: "Dogs and cats without owner or without control of owners who are in the hunting grounds without the permission of the hunting user and represent a direct threat to game may be removed from the hunting grounds without special authorisation under the prescribed conditions". So, when it comes to the protection of savages, everything is allowed. It would be funny if anyone could think that someone in the forest space was going to chase stray dogs with dog equipment, when those same dogs couldn't catch them in urban environments, around schools, where they were threatened, first of all, children. That is why the government and the Committee rejected my amendment last year to the Animal Wellbeing Law, which gave the possibility of depriveing the life of a particular animal if human life is directly at stake. It turns out that some gamer's life is worth more than human life, because then, as a reason for not accepting my amendment, you cited the possibility of abuse of citizens by such a formulation. Of course, as usual, you predicted that in this article the minister prescribes conditions and ways of removing dogs and cats from the hunting grounds, and in order to make it look on the ground, we can only imagine. For the sake of time, I would like to conclude my presentation by commenting on Article 115, which refers to the application of the law. This law was proposed by many newspapers, which require time for this law to be properly applied. New entities are reported in the entire management and use system, which cannot take over their role overnight, and we have therefore submitted on behalf of the SRS an amendment proposing to postpone the application of the law for 1 January 2011. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36061	The word has a minister, Dr. Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36062	I thank the People's MP for the discussion. I'd just like to comment on one thing, and you'll get the rest in writing. Generally, carrying guns is defined by the Arms and Ammunition Act. There is no need to mention this in this law, when it is very adequately explained in the second law. Your demands are absolutely in line with what the Arms and Ammunition Act says, so it is not in practice to define something by law, so that it is further confirmed by some other law, if there is already one law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36063	Thank you. Radisa Ilic, what's your emergency? (Radisa Ilic, from the site: Replica. He can't, he doesn't have a basis for replication. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36064	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that I have just spoken to the Minister and his associates who have worked on making this proposal, the draft has received agreement and a promise that some of the suggestions and remarks that I made today in the principle debate, that there is an opportunity to correct them through the Committee on Agriculture. I hope that most of the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Themes will also agree to make some adjustments. I'd like to express my gratitude to the minister and his associates for their understanding. Given that I spoke today as an authorised representative for 20 minutes and if I had said less – I would say more what I meant to say, which is important from the point of view of the Serbian Progressive Party, on the issue of this bill, I would no longer speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36065	Thank you. National MP Milan Avramovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36066	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in addition to all these criticisms and well-intentioned suggestions that should be an integral part of this bill's proposal, must also be mentioned in the prehistory of the adoption of this law. This law is kind of being made for five years. He was challenged twice by the competent institutions, twice by the task force, twice by their own decisions, twice by the joint draft text of this law, with other participants in the work, with hunting associations, and twice by the Ministry's website, the version of the ministry itself, not the version that was made. Either way, our goal is not to challenge what is good for our country, but to detect those irregularities that can be misused. I think MPs' comments are too high, especially because they didn't comment on anything about the law. Those basic floscules that are problematic in this bill can be reduced to four wholes. These overalls include only some members, who could make this law totally acceptable to the correct amendments. I will go through the members in a row, to focus on those basic things, which are really needed for a better position and for the Hunters' Association itself, and for those who participated in making this law, because they failed through the task force to filter out everything they wanted and thus their weight is weakened by this law. Article 4 of point 34 states that the existing text of the law should be amended because areas outside the hunting grounds and areas of inhabited areas are covered by regulations in the areas of urbanism and highways. As my colleague Ilic said, the proposal is in line with the applicable regulations, as only part of the settlements in the Republic of Serbia are defined as a city, for example, for Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, and there are other large urbanized settlements, such as Paracin, Kanjiza, Topola, which are certainly not areas in the hunting grounds. This Article 4(1) point (34) should therefore be amended. What is important are the roles of the hunting alliances in Article 8, which are challenged by this existing bill, because, in addition to being a member of the hunting alliance of the International Council for the Hunting and Protection of Wildlife (hereinafter referred to as the CIC) for the performance of those tasks, there is a lack of data collection and processing for hunting sites in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are headed to the Catastre of hunting sites and the Central Database, except for hunting sites for special purposes. In this bill, it's not usually defined what hunting grounds are for special purposes, or maybe I didn't get it right, but there's a minister to give us an answer. Either way, there is also a disputed distribution of hunting tickets to hunting sites in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, except for hunting sites for special purposes. The Hunting Union educates the Commission to pass the hunting exam and issue assurances about the hunting test, as well as those other items referred to in the law itself, Article 8 and point ''2) takes care of game trophies whose value is expressed in CIC points greater than the national champion's trophy value. ''Articles 7 and 8 have not realised the recommendations of the international FAO consultant. These recommendations have been widely recognised since the debate that was held in March 2006, which in its report of the mission of international hunting policy consultants and the needs of Serbia's hunting legislation found that the role of the Hunting Union of Serbia should be to represent hunters in the country and abroad, to conduct research planned by the state service, agencies and scientific institutions, universities, institutes, the issue of hunting identification cards according to the hunting test of hunters, education training organisations, including hunting exams and tests for hunters and examinations for the assessment of trophies, the issue of hunting magazines and other hunting literature, care for certifications on breeding and training of hunting dogs, the issue of an official trophy pricer. We recommend that the Hunting Union of Serbia in some way has no responsibility as a contractor on behalf of the hunting users, which is not provided for by this law and no longer has the authority to charge small game fires, no public authority to run the official database and savages. In a report by the mission of the international legal consultant for the development of hunting legislation in Serbia, as of March and April 2006, which quoted you, I think, and on the site, Chapter II point 15, said – it was important to reconsider the current powers of the hunting union of Serbia which so far played a dominant role in the sector and if the need to revise them, as well as the Alliance and its members have experience and abilities that cannot be found elsewhere. That should not be challenged and considered. What's definitely wrong with this bill is Article 38, and the decision that in the value of the beginner of the funds I hunt protected species of savages should be calculated at the prescribed level of compensation. This is something that should be left out of this bill, because the acquisition of the right to master the hunting grounds should first be offered to the current beneficiary of the hunting ground which successfully manages or its legal follower at the part of the hunting ground, provided that more hunting grounds are established under the law on the surface of the previously established hunting ground. Therefore, in order to avoid confusion, all these criteria must meet the conditions of the previous position, with the definition of the conditions of the offer. The terms of the offer are catastrophic, so it would be good to delete this proposal in Article 38(2). I would add that if the current hunting user does not accept the conditions offered to give the hunting grounds to the owner, then a public ad under the same conditions will only be announced. So, in a way, it would be an equal position for hunting grounds. The draft law of Article 44 proposed or found that the minister prescribed a way to determine the level of the relevant guarantees, so that is another reason why there is no need for the existence of Article 38(2). Article 47(3), instead of the point in which this member ends, should be added that there must be a unique form prescribed by the minister. The form is primarily required from one basis for monitoring populations, as well as for the delivery of laws, prescribed data, so it is necessary to establish a unique form of the annual plan. The annual plan must contain all necessary parameters for compliance with the hunting base. The annual plan is something that can be precise or not, but this pattern would put an end to that misunderstanding. Article 63 – A license for game hunting on a prescribed form shall be issued by a person who carries out professional work with the hunting user, by the master of the hunting grounds. The individual hunting permit is in the name of the hunter, and the group is in the name of the group leader. Individual permits and group permits can only be issued for small game hunting, so that should be specified. It must be determined which of the hunting users issue a license for game hunting, so as not to have a dilemma. To determine that the hunting user is obliged to issue a hunting licence can create many problems for the hunting users, because they will not be able to obtain a hunting licence from that formulation. That's what's clear. This law does not define anywhere which game is large, which is small, and everything regarding hunting permits has been found to be prescribed by the minister himself. Article 80(2) post 5% should delete the words "for special purpose hunting sites and 10% for other hunting grounds". This is what the previous MPs discussed, because there is no constitutional basis that the beneficiaries of the catcher's fee are discriminated against against the users of the hunting grounds, by paying a higher amount of compensation, since they are the same all other conditions for obtaining the catcher's land. If these conditions changed, maybe this would be a concrete solution, but since they didn't, then the proposed text, this one, is absolutely in effect. The question of the amount of compensation should certainly also be considered in light of the recommendations of the international FAO consultant. I've already read that, and you have a recommendation saying that the compensation system should be based on inputs, revenues, and amputations, whatever you want, costs. As has already been said, the giving of the hunting grounds to the boss, including the fees for using game as a natural resource, should be known in advance. It's about that annual plan, which I asked to include a form to be prescribed by the minister. Incomes are the market value of game meat and the market value of trophies. Costs are the work of hunters in the hunting grounds, maintenance of pastures, game fields, game remises, planting and cultivation of game orchards, as well as sparks, costs for materials to work on the prevention of game damage. When calculating – income minus costs, at least 10% of total income from trophies and meat should be paid as a fee and in case the result is negative. In that case, compensation shall be paid from private sources of hunters who manage the hunting grounds. If the result is positive, compensation should be paid in the range of 10% to 50% of total meat income and game trophies. I think this is a definition that would help everyone and if income distribution is such, then it should be as it is shown, 50% of the fees go to the budget, to a special account at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Forest Administration for the implementation of activities related to the protection of game and sustainable hunting, to be used in accordance with the relevant National Programme. Article 88 says, for the damage to gamers on the vehicle caused by the collision of wild gamers for a vehicle on the move, the driver of the vehicle shall be responsible if it is established that he did not drive in accordance with the regulation; the catcher's user, if it is established that the damage has been caused by the shop and the users, and the user for the damage to the game and the driver for the damage on the vehicle if they both have done all the needs to avoid damage. This change particularly addresses the issue of wildlife damage in traffic, which is increasingly pronounced, and creates increasing costs for hunting users, thus ensuring fair treatment and is authentic in the decision of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting of the Republic of Slovenia. Our amendment to Article 99 proposed harmonising the provisions of this article with the provisions of Article 96(3) of the Law proposal, which states that Article 99(1) "did not comply with the implementation" is replaced by the words "not implementing the provision". Basic remarks, because I don't have enough time, we're going to present in the debate in particular, but it is certainly necessary to put this all in the interest of those who, even with the recommendation of the international FAO consultant, have received some predisposition and advantage as an institution that has so far had confidence. I think she should still have confidence, and this bill only regulates certain areas, such as giving hunting grounds to some large capitalists who can compete for that area or the square that is intended for them. They repeat once again, in the debate in particular, I will try to convince you to accept some of the amendments, or all of the amendments to the SRS in order for this bill to get our support as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36067	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36068	Thank you. Just tell me how much time I have left, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36069	Seventeen minutes and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36070	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, I will talk about the draft law on game and hunting. I'm talking about the code of ethics and national culture, first of all. We must realise that the state must stand behind the interests of its hunting grounds, its hunters. That's what I wanted to say at first. It is common knowledge that two models of game management and hunting are present in Europe today. First, where the state owns the game and the right to hunt. Second, where hunting is organized under the right of ownership over the earth. The subject of disputes in many countries is exactly the way of governance, even, for example, this case and the dispute, for example, in organised Slovenia, following a series of disputes, conflicts and opinions, ended in front of the International Court in Strasbourg. When we mention Slovenia, it should be pointed out that this law has been prepared for five years, that it has been returned twice after bile debates and was finally adopted in mid-2004. Also, it should be pointed out and for comparisons, Montenegro, which has quickly, without debate, passed this law in about 11 minutes, has passed it, but it has not been applied for five years. Why am I pointing this out? Just so we can be careful when we vote for this law, whether we accept it or not. He, in any case, wants to improve hunting conditions. Our bill, it seems, if adopted, will not go much better than Montenegrin, due to some ambiguities, not all, the complete law, but that is where we are trying to improve the law with our amendments. You said in your statement that you received support from the Hunting Union of Serbia, most of the votes, and that's true. The event was held, spelling Masses, at the Veterinary Faculty at the end of December of last year. Of the 197 that should have been present: 134 attended and 104 voted for this law and that is the support, I would say, not by an absolute majority. It took that session, by absolute majority, to say to the two-thirds majority, to support this law. However, there has been a conflict there, and we know that the Hunting Union of Serbia is not good relations, perhaps because the director has a large salary, over 200,000 dinars, and the other members or associations live on the edge of the existence. It seems to me, with more attention to approach this subject, that a detailed analysis should be made based on discussions gathered from various discussions, to take note of objections and proposals, etc., and only then to approach the adoption of this law. So some of them have left that meeting, it's this one group that doesn't agree with all the members of this bill. When we talk about hunting itself, we must not forget that hunting companionship comes from the past centuries, when these various associations were created. If the social composition of membership is taken into account, it is freely said that there are rare social organisations in which there were and there is a diversity of membership, where among others who sit equally, as someone said, and lunches, and judges and workers, and doctors and civil servants, and officers and merchants, and priests and lawyers, and farmers and ministers and presidents of the states. Hunting associations did not engage in politics, nor did they belong to any political elite as an organisation. By causing revolt, you will do damage to yourself, as Minister, and to the Ministry itself you belong to and which you lead, because there are over 75 000 hunters in Serbia, as you said, and you will agree that this is not a negligible number that can easily be manipulated by very legal provisions. It seems to me that this law can only be supported by those privileged, i.e. The rich, which means another decomposition in our already troubled society. This law will create conditions where the minister will decide on his own on certain matters, we have made observations and proposed amendments to change, that the minister cannot decide for himself. The minister will have the authority to sign some things on his own in certain situations, and it is well-founded that these rich will have full freedom with the support of one man. Someone will suffer in a sea of regulations, which are poor hunters, and others will continue to enjoy the benefits of hunting and poaching, only because they are close to the ruling majority and authorities. The chamber is another agency for hiring unsettled personnel. That's what we in the SRS keep saying and we don't approve. It's going to be another imposition for the citizens, because someone needs to finance it, too. If the Hunting Union of Serbia has so many members, and the director and those around it probably have large incomes, we ask ourselves, in itself – how many incomes will the Director of the Chamber have and employees in it? That question is imposed by itself, as well as by concern. Moreover, there is no Kosovo and Metohija in the bill, we said, and it had to be pointed out loudly both Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. Why hide it?- I'm sorry. The government's position towards Kosovo and Metohija is inconclusive. The remarks we received came from the field of those who work professionally in hunting, i.e. In hunting tourism, as an economic branch, this law has little to do with this subject, all in two or three members. Do you think, at the Ministry, that as an economic branch, hunting can contribute to a significant inflow of funds into the budget? Less and fewer foreign hunters respond to hunting in Serbia's field. Once an annual inflow of hunting tourism was tens of millions of dollars, only in Vojvodina were over five or six thousand foreign hunters. There is no defined export of game or game meat, which is the basic reason for the failure of foreign hunters. Some countries in the environment, which are located in the EU, have precisely and clearly defined this view on the subject and therefore many EU hunters go right there, not to Serbia, to many countries where the theme of hunting tourism and these branches are defined. Before this law was passed, according to me and by us from the SRS, and by many, as I have understood today in this discussion, the law on forests and the law on agricultural land that would be closer to defining some attitudes, and thus this law, which we are discussing today, would have full meaning. You will form something in the view of the Chamber, that something is reportedly improving, and the Chamber will also be representatives of the ministry. It is simply impossible for this new chamber to know and know hunting better than alliances or societies. The chamber will be financed from the budget, at least from the beginning, as you said, if I understood correctly. If not because of something else, then we're going into another funding problem that will be the most out-of-work hunters who are so poor in all sorts of ways. The chamber will live, as I understand it, in about a year. Until then, we should think carefully about the organization itself. When we talk about this law, and we pointed out, when the law on forests is passed, in which it is likely to be defined and the role of the Institute of Forestry, as the professional planning and supervisory institutions of the state administration in the field of hunting, this is already causing a duress of the work of the professional public that they believe will not be competent for this job. When we talk about concessions and concessionaries, and also about concessions, I think there's a lot of uncertainty. I didn't quite understand many things, and that's important in this law. It will be interesting to see how hunting organisations, as concessionaries, will solve the problem of paying off concessions under this law. Is it possible to charge an annual fee based on the annual plan of income from game and annual plan of expenditure from gamers, who will determine the income from the sale of meat from game and other income jobs and expenditures? I may not have understood that correctly, but I don't think it's defined by this law. On the other hand, we must conclude that the price of meat, as well as the cost of various expenditures over the year, meliorations or other costs, determines the market itself, if charged on an annual basis, there will be a shift, especially in the time in which we live, where we cannot determine fixed prices or services and neither the goods themselves. I think that these ambiguities have to be defined in order to win the law, because every law that is passed, and when it is passed, even if it is bad, it has to be respected until some better and better-quality law is passed. So when we have a debate in particular, we will talk about the amendments that we have submitted, and it concerns what my colleagues and I have been talking about, and we will try to help you, and you will reassure us if we are in some dilemmas, to professionally improve this law, because we are now and in eight days it takes effect. As a result, many associations and many hunters will go to education and have to act according to this law. That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36071	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36072	If, honourable MP, read Article 4 point 15) you will see that, by definition, there are three hunting alliances in Serbia's territory under this bill. One is the Hunting Union of Serbia, one is the Hunting Union of Kosovo and one is the Hunting Union of Vojvodina. So it's absolutely not true, as I once said, maybe you didn't listen very carefully, that here you're just talking about the hunting alliance of the province. I don't know if there's any place where the Hunting Union of the Duke itself is mentioned, it's not mentioned anywhere. And if you think that's all it applies to him, then you need to think about how you're experiencing our country, with or without Kosovo. I know well that there are three alliances and all three are listed in the law. In addition, one really crucial question, in the discussion of your parliamentary group, it has been mentioned several times that the law is being made so that some foreigners would come here to hunt and then be expelled domestic hunters, and then, again, in your discussion, I hear it is very important to make sure that foreigners can come to hunt because it is the great income of our country. As far as we're concerned, of course foreigners should come to hunt, but according to a law that is adequate and that enables Serbian hunting to achieve significant revenues from tourism, it is one of the important aspects of tourism. As far as the law goes, I'd like to repeat once again that I can't, I have no right, I don't want to, and I don't think it's appropriate to interfere with the current situation in hunting alliances. As far as I know, every president of the hunting alliance has been democratically elected in the elections, who assumed that all hunting associations participate in these elections. If their position was that this law should be entered into the Assembly in this way, I also told the employees of the Ministry, or the Forest Administration, who deals with this law that this law cannot be found either in the Government or in the Assembly until it receives adequate support from the relevant alliances. The moment we received this support, we referred that law to both the government and the Assembly. What's especially important is that I really can't make a difference, it's not appropriate to distinguish between certain hunting associations, and what hunting associations are that are not. I think it's getting into something where I don't have jurisdiction. What I'd like to say again is that the Hunting Chamber is a structural association, like a lawyer, like a tourist. It's no agency. The government, nor the government's representatives have absolutely no jurisdiction in the governing sense or any other way, and especially not in the personneling of those people who find themselves there. They are exclusively chosen by people who are professional and who are involved in this profession. For that reason, it's important that she exists. Of course we need to help make it work, because this chamber is someone who, like the Bar Association or some other chamber, needs to bring order to this area, to allow hunting grounds in Serbia to be adequately managed, with sufficient understanding for the needs of hunters, for the purposes of those who deal with environmentalism, forestry, and for those who, whether they wanted to or not, are involved in this area in some way, involved, involved and need their opinion heard. I'm not in the view that apart from what the law provides, so help in setting up, that any money from the Republic budget is later going to this purpose and I think we absolutely agree. Anyway, I think this is a law that brings a lot of newspapers and that goes for the better. I think that all the amendments that have been heard today mainly relate to the promotion of this legislative proposal. In the next week, we will, together with you, adopt as many amendments that make sense as possible, which are to be found in the legislative proposal. And, as you have always worked with the Ministry of Agriculture, or in my previous mandate to the Ministry of Ecology, every meaningful amendment, regardless of whose parliamentary groups it comes from, must be accepted, because here we are not working for the sake of our parties, but for the sake of the interests of Serbian citizens, in this case 75,000, how many registered hunters there are currently in the Republic of Serbia. So much for the end. I am very grateful to all the MPs who participated in the promotion of this area during the debate today. I especially thank all the MPs who took part in the debate, as well as those who listened carefully to what we are doing today. I also have to thank the Committee on Agriculture, who, as always, is doing my job well, and I would really like to join Professor Masic's application, the chairman of the Committee, that, on the next committee, all the Members of the Committee who are members of the Committee take part in his work so that this legislative proposal, or someone else in turn from the field of agriculture, would be discussed in an adequate manner and adopted as it should be. Thanks again and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36073	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I find that Mr Milan Dimitrijevic wants to exercise his right under Article 93. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36074	Thank you, Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a dilemma as to whether this law can be corrected by amendments. After a full-day discussion, definitely my conclusion is no. This law, Mr. Minister, does not improve hunting conditions. On the contrary, he has created error in the fullest sense of that word. He doesn't explain the concepts, he mystifies them, giving them the possibility of different interpretations. The law has a sense of violent enforcement, which seems to me to be just copied from somewhere. And at the same time, it makes sense to suppress those values that have been in these spaces for decades created that's the essence of this story. Mr. Minister, the purpose of the law is not to change the revolution in the area of the protection of the situation of savages, habitats, but to step up the way and methods to optimal solutions. This law should not be a mere copying of certain regulations, but a flexible impotence, both economic and cultural, as we are. In the end, a very important issue opened, a relationship between game owners and land owners. That's a very important question. It's a question of a couple of excellencies. You can't just solve one issue this way, by one regulation of the minister. In addition, every third, fourth, fifth member will be regulated by a regulation by the minister. So that shows the essence and intention of passing this law. It shows what will happen to an organization that has functioned in these areas for more than a century. It's the law's intention to bring this organization down, to make it disappear, to achieve the market principle. Hunting isn't money. It is money, but mostly not money. By your decisions and regulations, which you do not have, which you promise, you will regulate or try to regulate a series of things. If you have carefully read individual members, you have seen how contrary they are to sound logic. You're predicting, and I'm going to point out only one example, give authority to the guard, the authority of the police. Did the songwriter even read the Police Act? Is it possible that a hunter is bringing someone in? Could that have been regulated in another way by law? We've been passing laws on community police, now we've got hunters playing cops, well, people, if we go like that with such laws, I think we need another, at least, 30 laws. Do you intend to just arrest him?- I'm sorry. You're just going to commit coercion?- I'm sorry. All you intend to do is kidnap, alienate, sell?- I'm sorry. Now, that's the purpose of this law. So, the law was passed without real debate, with huge lobbying, to break up Serbia's Hunting Union, to destroy hunting societies. I was absolutely right when I said today, in the afternoon of the debate, that Serbian hunters, in view of the earlier activities of Mr. Minister, while he was the environmental minister, would remain to hunt ticks and mosquitoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-04-0.u36075	Thank you. I am concluding a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties. Dear People's MPs, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., and on 8 March, Monday, we will not have a session. Thank you.
