ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Vlatko Ratkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice and Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of the Interior, I invited the sittings to attend both Jovan Ćosic and Zlatko Petrovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Justice, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Zorica Loncar Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. You were presented the minutes of the 2010 session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 30 September 2010. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 September 2010. Of the 128 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 30 September 2010. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for the merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2010, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel documents, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2010, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Vesna Marjanović, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Codes of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Amendments and a Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the visa waiver of diplomatic and official passports, the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on visa waiver for their nationals and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil on the visa waiver of visas for holders of diplomatic or official passports. Does MP Vesna Marjanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 134 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. National MP Milos Aligrudic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the proposed agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Does Mr. Aligrudic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45387	Madam President, first of all, I don't think it's right that when you have two proposals that don't have exactly the same content, and they refer to the merger point, previously (it's a matter of unwritten procedure, but also of elemental logic) these two proposals don't listen or ask the promoters to explain them before any vote. Because we just had a situation where one proposal was voted, and now you're asking me to explain the second proposal, which is kind of contained in part one. Since I don't know why you're doing this, it's gonna work out like this. So, I think the merger of dots, within the meaning of Article 157. Rules of Procedure, it makes sense when, as Article 157 says, it is about the laws on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or the solutions in which they are linked. I don't see how these are the first two points of the agenda mutually conditioned and the solutions in them are interrelated. The first item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the second is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. What do those two dots have to do with each other, except for one and the other, some extension? When it comes to travel documents, the validity of travel documents is extended. When it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, detention is extended. So besides that extension, I don't see any other elemental connection. When it comes to the proposal I made, we have points 2, 3, 4 and 5, which are interstate agreements that need to be confirmed, which are, in accordance with Article 170. The Rules of Procedure, in a single search, discusses each point in person, and it is possible, precisely in terms of interpreting the provision of Article 157, to search them jointly. Not that it's possible, but it's even desirable, given that it's the exact same matter in all the proposals that have been submitted. There was little vote, there were 125 for, of the 130 and some present, as identified by the identification cards. You will now put my proposal to the vote, but at the same time, since you deny me the right, not to me, but to all other MPs, to report to the Rules of Procedure at this stage... Here's clear proof that this interpretation is wrong. At this stage, it can be reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because this is an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure, and to point to it afterwards, it has no purpose whatsoever. It doesn't even make sense now. The only thing that would be possible is to cancel the vote that was just a little bit, put one and the other on the vote again after my argument, so if this goes through and after my argument, it's over, let us vote on what I suggested. That's the only way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45388	I did it by respecting the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting Mr. Aligrudic's proposal to vote. Of the 145 MPs, 17 voted for Mr Aligrudic's proposal. I find that the Assembly has not accepted his proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for the merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda, in general. Of the 142 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the draft agenda. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on mutual visa waiver, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, submitted by the Government, 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on visa waiver for their citizens, which was submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic or official passports, which was submitted by the government. We are moving to a joint review of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Rules of Procedure on Criminal Procedure and Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on Road Regulations, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 97, a joint principle search on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda has been carried out. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the basic procedure, total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I would like to inform you that, according to this agenda, MPs will be: MP Milisav Petronijevic, MP of the SPS – JS, MP Zeljko Ivanji Parliament group G17 plus, SRS - MP Petar Jojic, Milica Radovic will represent the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. That the representatives of the Proposer want a word, too? Ms. Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45389	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this principle debate, I would like to make several preliminary remarks on the law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal to consider and adopt an urgent procedure, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice. We are witnessing that in the last ten days there has been an escalation of violence by extreme cheerleading groups. Violence is seen not only in preventing public gatherings organised neatly, in accordance with the law in our country, but also in violence at sports events held outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, the problem takes on both the international character and the very damage to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia abroad, and it also interferes with our strategic interest, which is the EU's accession. It should be said that this escalation of violence is directed against the most important human rights that every democratic state is obliged to protect, which are primarily the right to life and personal security, as well as the right to gather and express views freely. Also, violence is directed against authorised police officers, whose task is to maintain public order and peace in accordance with legal powers, as well as the exercise of citizens' rights. It should also be pointed out that recent events have shown their destructive character, which is reflected in the destruction of public and private assets in greater scope, as well as in the creation of a psychoses of insecurity among citizens. The task of every democratic state is to use such phenomena uncompromisingly, but, of course, according to the procedure and the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the law. The state has taken a clear view that it will not tolerate any kind of violence and will react resolutely. With that in mind, I would remind you that in the past, the Republic of Serbia has undertaken certain normative activities to address this problem. At the end of 2009, the National Assembly changed the Criminal Code on two occasions. These changes extended the crime of violent behavior at the sports event by also referring to violent behavior at other public gatherings. In addition, the penalties previously threatened have been tightened, with the provision of a cumulation of penalties. In addition to the prison sentence from six months to five years, the basic form of this crime is cumulatively foreseen and fines are also tightened for other forms of the crime. In line with the comparative legal solutions of countries that have faced the same problems, and our Criminal Law introduces a measure of security and banning the presence of certain sports events. At the same time, the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior on Sports Obstacles has been amended, which has strengthened the liability of both sports organizers and fans and other participants. In view of the current problems in practice which have been shown in the application of those laws, and in order to combat the perpetrators of criminal offences more effectively, it is also necessary to carry out certain interventions in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The draft law today provides for the amendment of Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which prescribes conditions for determining detention. Intervention in point 5) of Article 142 shall be proposed. The Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is prescribed that detention may be imposed against persons suspected of committing a criminal offence, if a criminal offence imposed on him has been imposed on him for over five years, instead of, as has been prescribed so far, for over ten years and if this is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. In this way, for a number of crimes, whose executions are particularly difficult, under which a criminal offence has been committed and for which less than ten years of imprisonment has been prescribed, where the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings cannot be provided otherwise, provides for the possibility of determining detention. This amendment is particularly relevant for the possibility of determining detention and for the criminal act of violence in sports events when the basic form of the crime has been committed by the group, as well as for a person who has suffered serious physical injury or damaged property of greater value, which was not possible under the applicable provisions if there were no other grounds for determining the detentions prescribed by Article 142. The Code of Criminal Procedure. Also, Article 2. The draft law is proposed to amend Article 436. The Code, which refers to the possibility of determining detention in a reduced criminal procedure. This amendment shall intervene in the position of Article 236. By extending the maximum length of detention in a reduced criminal procedure from eight to 30 days. In this way, the provision of Article 436(2) shall be made. The Code agrees with the proposed amendment set out in Article 1 of the Law, since the latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure of September 2009 extended the procedure to criminal offences for which the sentence of prison was prescribed for up to five years. This amendment is necessary in order to address the current problems, given that it has been shown that a greater number of persons are involved in the execution of criminal acts with the elements of violence, so it is necessary to carry out investigations against those persons that cannot be conducted within eight days, in order to ensure their presence in criminal proceedings. I would like to point out in particular that this group of crimes includes a criminal offence against public order and peace, such as a criminal offence referred to in Articles 23, 1 and 2. The Law on Public Order and Peace, which is the obstruction of an authorised official in the pursuit of security or public order and peace. I would point out that, for all of these reasons, it is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure, in order to avoid further harmful consequences for the country's security, the work of state authorities and the exercise of citizens' rights, and that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of this legislative proposal for further and effective fight against violence at all public gatherings and sports events. I am expressing hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed law will be adopted, creating the necessary regulatory framework for the final solution to this problem. Now I'd like to brief you on the amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. The travel documents law began to apply on 9 April 2008. Article 53. The law lays down that passports should be issued before that date until the deadline set out in that amendment and for the longest period until 31 December 2010. Up to now, about 2,700,000 biometric passports have been issued, of which around 115,000 have been issued in diplomatic and consular representations. The time of their publication shall be reduced to three to 15 days from the day of application, regardless of the legal period of 30 days, if the application is submitted in the area police administration, or from 60 days if it is submitted in the diplomatic and consular representation. However, our diplomatic and consular representations are not able to accept a number of requests for the issue of biometric passports to citizens of RS who are staying abroad, since they do not have the necessary number of places for the acquisition of biometric data. That is why our citizens who apply here are waiting for months to produce biometric passports in the country and their delivery abroad. They are so relieved that when they arrive at the country in the competent police administration, their demands are resolved as urgent within 48 hours, so that passports can be taken over while they are staying in the Republic of Serbia. But the issue of issuing passports to those of our citizens who will not come to the Republic of Serbia by the end of this year, as long as their passports are valid. Taking into account the prescribed validity of passports in the old form, by the end of this year, and the almost objective inability for anyone seeking to issue biometric passports within this deadline, and so as not to produce major consequences for our citizens abroad whose passport abroad serves as an identification document, passports on the old form are proposed to remain in force until 31 December 2011. Because the passport in the old form issues visas, and the passport in that case has to be valid for at least three months, it is proposed that this law be passed by emergency procedure. The second proposal to amend this law – in addition to the possibility of issuing a travel document in emergency cases (an emergency treatment requirement abroad, a notice of death or a serious illness of family members, an urgent official pathway) or for other justified reasons, if evidence confirming the causes of urgency is accompanied, and not later than 48 hours from the time of application, is prescribed in Article 34(3). The law – refers to the introduction of a travel document by emergency procedure and other reasons not covered by the cited member and without the application of evidence of the reasons for urgency. In his work so far on issuing travel documents, the MUP has mostly met with reasons for urgency not covered by the reasons set out in Article 34. The law, but he went out to meet the citizens and issued travel documents according to an emergency procedure. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Travel is making no compensation, this amendment creates a legal basis for determining the fee for issuing the travel document under emergency procedure, at the request of the applicant. As I said, I once again hope that after debate in principle and in particular these laws will be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45390	I thank Mrs. Secretary. The honourable MPs, because of the wish of a large number of MPs to participate in various events related to Belgrade's release, and in connection with the anti-fascist fight and the October 20th marking, I hereby set a break from 10.45 to 12.00 hours. So, at that time, we won't be working. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does MP Dusan Bajatovic, deputy president of the Committee, and MP Bosko Ristic want a word? No, I don't. We'll continue our work at 12.00 hours. [[After break – 12.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Željko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45392	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I can say that after these ten days of unkind events that have taken place in Belgrade and Genoa, I can be pleased with the measures this country is taking. Last Thursday, I set out on the Security Committee the measures the state should take; I believe that the issue of sanctions in this country is not sufficiently well resolved, given that some criminal penalties are inadmissible. In any case, it is necessary to process those who have caused violence, both in Belgrade and in Genoa. In order to obtain the data necessary to expose this criminal group, the detention measure is certainly something that is necessary. What's important to say is that it's a good thing that what I also talked about on Thursday is that the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime has to take charge of these crimes. The second good thing I heard today is that the Republic of Serbia will sign an agreement with the Republic of Montenegro on the extradition of persons on the warrant in Serbia. This was one of the principles of how criminals or, we could say, hooligans worked during the previous period – when criminal proceedings are launched they are released, then they address, for example, Montenegro by seeking protection from the authorities there or by seeking citizenship to avoid prosecution in Serbia. The third thing that has to happen in the coming period, without the pretense to put pressure on the judiciary, is that the Constitutional Court makes a decision to ban those organisations that have initiated these conflicts and this violence in Belgrade, organisations that pose a threat to this society, organisations that represent ideologists who have no ideologies and which are easy to seduce, organisations that, in their programme work, have to accuse or declare who are enemies of Serbia. Among other things, one of these organisations, such as "The Face", on its site as an enemy of the Serbian people, is characterized by the Jewish people. So we have an anti-Semitism act officially published on the site of an organization that pleads to be Serbian. I remind you, for the crime of spreading racial, religious and national impatience, sanctions are scheduled for up to five years in prison. So, the neonacism that occurs in Serbia is inaccessibly low and sanctioned. When we talk about reports we have received for days, among other things on BIA reports, in the previous period as the main enemy of the Serbian people, we have been characterised by Wahhabi; we have been calling for terrorism and while we have been dealing with Kosovo's problems has burned Belgrade, but Genoa has also burned. We wanted to make visa liberalisation possible for young people to travel to the world and Europe, and we experienced organised hooligans traveling. Just because the pre-criminal procedure was ineffective, we have to admit, we need to allow faster processing of criminal acts that pose a really great social danger to this society. The dispute of the judicial authorities is inadmissible. Of all arrested offenders, only 2.4% were prosecuted and charged with criminal or criminal proceedings. As a result, I can freely say that the relatively crime, that the thugs became heroes, that justice was sought for a person who burned a police officer while doing his duty, that the hero became someone who, because of the ineffectiveness of our judicial organs, brought in a man who performed his duty in a football game to a mental dispersion. Also, a man was killed on the streets of this city only because he spoke another language. Is he an enemy of the Serbian people because he spoke in a foreign language? His parents come disappointed here. The procedure is delayed indefinitely because persons suspected of committing murder are free, free to walk the city or not respond to subpoenas or fled the country. When we talk about the dispute of the procedure itself, what about the proceedings against Jajic is the question? Terzic is reportedly in Montenegro. What about the case against Bata Kankan? What about the case against Cece? Obviously, we have a lot of mobs in football. That's what's unequivocal. So far, the mob or the hooligans at the sports events have dealt with the district prosecutors. I remember, in some earlier period, when criminal charges were filed in the "Mobtel" case, she ended up, as I got the information, in the drawer of a referent and stood there for years, until the case was taken over by the prosecution who could prosecute with full capacity this crime. As I was saying, the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime must be involved in the mob, given that the mafia is expressed at football events. Apparently, the money of the 1990s was the only one in those football transfers. It's obvious footballers were recruited by the mob. It is obvious that one of the reasons for their performance for the state's team is that their "legs are tied", given that they go out to matches under threats they hear when they're scandald by hooligans in stadiums. Obviously, it's about their racketeering. Obviously, they want to manage the transfers. It is obvious that football games in Serbia have lost every sense. Today we have a question of derby. I'm asking another question - why would anyone go to a derby and whom is this football game meant to be? Is it meant for a nice Serbian family or hooligans? Can I go to the family stadium and enjoy football, if my kid needs to hear "Kill a faggot"? How am I supposed to explain to the kid that it's possible that the whole stadium is scanning to kill someone, in one game where the main thing is to move the ball across the line between the two statues? No one's talking about football. What's unequivocal is that we have a big problem with the mob and that football has lost its meaning. That's not the case with other sports. The state must be much more efficient and clear to oppose this crime. We shouldn't ask UEFA to forgive us for what happened in Genoa. I'll remind you that Margaret Thatcher asked UEFA to ban the hooligans from going to football games and ban the team from participating in football games that are being held outside the country, just because she wanted to draw a line and deal with the mob, and that's what we need. We need to draw a line; among other things, this is one of those things we do, amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, in this set I was talking about, and it has to be followed by a ban on neo-Nazi organizations. Not to tell you what else is going on on different sites, for example. Stormfront, where you have a list of Jews in Serbia. In the 21st century, Jewish lists are being made in Serbia! Which is why I'm asking a question. We've got a warrant for that crime up to five years. So, among other things, sanctions are something that must be affected, in addition to prevention. The sanctions should be the strongest for hooligan leaders, for the mob that runs our football. For those who have been seduced and have no ideology or those who have been taken away from the family for various reasons, perhaps because that family has not dealt with them, appropriate sanctions should be measured. Why not community service? Why wouldn't someone who was motivated by an ideologist who called for neonacism be sentenced to a punishment that implies community service? Why don't you help the side patients? Why don't you help the old and the powerless? Why not weed gardens in Belgrade from weeds, which could almost become one? It's up to us to propagate that weed, root it out, and allow the real values to come first. If families have left those children on the street, it is certainly better to raise them through community service and not allow them to be brought up by correctional homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45393	Thank you. Dear Members of the National Assembly, before we continue the work, let me inform you that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly is accompanied by members of the Association of Pensioners of the City of Novi Sad, and that: Dragica Zelenbaba, Sinisa Brankov, Milka Boz, Tihomir Nikolic, Perka Marinković, Mira Filipović, Slobodan Milosavljević, Slavko Radić, Miroslav Šparović, Dr Petar Mudrinic, Branko Kaiš, Lazar Subotić, Radivoje Zorić, Milica Jović, Ferenc Musli, Milutin Vuković, Milena Žarković, Vida Sibinski, Milan Šikar, Danica Barišić, Spasa Zorinović, Milorad Mijić, Zarko Višičar, Milutin Simić, Dušan Šjanović, Milan Kozarčić, Milan Žaljić, Milan Žaljić, Milja Lja Milić and Dragažić. Let's welcome our esteemed guests. I give my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45394	Madam President, I would like first to express our great dissatisfaction with the circumstances under which the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are under discussion. We do not know what else needs to happen in this country so that those who lead it appear in parliament, so that we in parliament can talk seriously about problems that are more than serious. Of course, full and personal respect for you and your presence here, but that, Mrs. Malovic, is not enough for us. Now we see you as someone who's trying to do his own initiative jobs that no one else in the country wanted to do and is unable to do, and does not mean to take responsibility for such impotence. We asked for an extraordinary session of the Assembly. We asked for an extraordinary cabinet session. We asked for an extraordinary session of the City Assembly to be called to discuss the causes of our society’s problems there. We are now forced to conduct a debate with you on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, one of its members who lowers the limit to the measure of detention, or raises detention rates from eight days to 30 days. And you and I both know how pointless that is. The fan club of that bad actor from Genoa, because it was a tragic theater and a scenic act, with a sock on his head, in a shirt that should serve that purpose, there are 13,000 people. As far as I know, all our prisons are already full. I speak as a man who is very aware of what he himself, in a political sense, has done. I'm always for more than a clear and effective state reaction. But it bothers me when an powerless and incompetent state, first hiding behind the police cordon, and then keeping quiet with the citizens, communicates with statements as grotesque as that creature in Genoa, or falsely assures us that we are safe and safe, and in this exporter of security, eventually all comes down to the idea that the problem will be solved by raising the detention from eight days to 30. That's not true. Where do we get the right to remain silent about this? Why didn't the Council meet to fight the violence that was formed in the government, by the government's decision, after the murder of Bris Taton? It is chaired by Prime Minister Cvetkovic. What were his conclusions? Why aren't we familiar with that? The Security Committee met us in such a way that I would ask our representative to leave the board, by sending the first conclusions by SMS to most of the committee, because it is important that our conclusions go through, and then we all went home. What are the causes of all this? "Ultras bojsi" will not be "Ultras bojsi", but will be "ultras grlsi". Today, Turkey is run by a party that was banned ten years ago, so it changed its name. If we talk about violence in Serbia, then that violence has a much deeper root. It manifests in the crowd. Where the mass is greater, violence is more pronounced. That's why we're talking about football stadiums as places where it's most clearly seen today. I'm sorry, but the immobilized child was thrown out of a window at home in Alexinco. In Serbia, two-thirds of women are victims of domestic violence, 70% of children are victims of violence. How does this Parliament apply to our country? The state isn't just government, we're all state. How does this country relate to its own violent role in the past or to the idea of more severe sanctions, state-controlled violence, solving the problem we are talking about? Let's bring these things down to a level of truth, start having the kind of dialogue that needs to be conducted to make people understand what country we live in. First, someone needs to take responsibility, and you know who it is, both for the violence in sports and for the mafia in sports, Mr Ivanji – your minister, absolutely. Secondly, for the inability to protect the property of the Belgrade citizens, to protect the police. It's not the police's duty to be the target of those who stone it. Someone needs to take responsibility, someone who decides. If we as a parliament have passed the Anti- Discrimination Act, we have not only passed the law to meet some standard, administrative norm in the process of European integration, but you are obliged to apply this law. Did you apply it and enable it to be applied by taking participants to the "marts" in Belgrade? We didn't. Did we explain to people what this was about? We didn't explain it either. There is a political responsibility for us who have passed this law to react in time, when we read what Mr Ivanji said -- "death to gays" on the walls. When we hear in the stadium a message that someone is waiting in Belgrade, we need to react politically by calling this parliament, by calling the government, by calling up some assembly committee, and talking to the public and changing this society. We will not get anywhere if we continue to lie to each other about how we will actually respond effectively to violence in Serbia. That day, that violence had its own political context, more than clear to me. Not all political parties, parliamentary parties, attacked. Those parties who run a policy that doesn't like those who were on the street have been attacked. The political messages that were subsequently heard, as an interpretation of the event, are for us only evidence of the state's impotence and weakness. This is done by Saric of the jungle, tycoons who want to protect their monopolies, Russian nationalist groups who are fraternizing with our nationalist groups, and then those people with grotesque nicknames, Keke, or whatever they are called. It's pathetic for a serious country. Instead, draw lines. He was right to be my colleague when he listed all those cases by pointing to this devastating truth that it was before our eyes all the time and that we kept quiet about it. Why does the state keep quiet about it? Politicians who are in clubs are probably responsible not only for funding these clubs, but also for everything these clubs symbolize and represent in society. Do they take that role on themselves and responsibility? No, I don't. Let's go back a few steps, and see if there is even an ethical consciousness in Serbia, which we need to create, about the majority's obligation to protect the minority, about the obligation of a stronger one to protect the weak. It doesn't exist. We did not need “the Parade of Pride ” to show how lonely we are in our efforts to help those who are weaker. How did we treat refugees, cannon flesh and failed politics? They ended up in the peripheries of our municipalities and cities as citizens of second and third order. Now they're making roads, sewers; they can't work, they can't school in a normal way. That's our social solidarity. It did not exist in much more "Serbian" situations than we faced on October 10th. Our society is deformed and some deformed institutions are responsible for this. We need a government project, much more serious than the idea of changing and expressing the measure of detention. We want to be a democratic society, Mrs. Malovic. We understand your commitment and some procedural circumstances that have brought you to parliament with the idea of changing the Code of Criminal Procedure and tightening that detention sanction by raising it from eight days to 30 days, but it cannot be solved with just a pendred problem in Serbia. That's why we wrote the amendment and it depends on whether we vote. We believe that this measure should be limited to those crimes in which there are elements of violence, because we do not think that everyone in Serbia should now fear that the possibility of detention is rising from eight to 30 days. I suggest you accept that, not because we wrote it, I think it'll be easier for you to do the job tomorrow. If we are talking about a serious problem, the one we faced when the Belgrade mosque was burned down in 2004 and 2008 when we were attacked in Belgrade, and when Karadzic was arrested, when Belgrade was once again destroyed, and what has happened now was politics every time. That policy that is silent and unpronounced, and subsequently condemns it or the policy that only knows how to say it is that it has nothing to do with it, and if there were once these relationships in the past, they are no longer current. It's a policy that builds its position on it, and that's what you have to say. That Margaret Thatcher quoted didn't speak in gloves, she said - I'll ban football. That running around the ball has nothing to do with sports anymore, with culture. When 30,000 people in the stadium ten minutes after the game sings that their songs are ugly, but they're cattle, it's a diagnosis. It doesn't exist anywhere in the 21st century. But these people, too, are our product. That flag that burned in Genoa, it's here in parliament, burned. It is set on fire in the intellectual tap, which says Albanians are not a people, but are some medieval tribe. It was set on fire by our inability to explain to people, along with all the controversy, how otherwise it can be loved by Serbia, how different it can be loved by the church, how different it can be expressed dissent. It's a big job we have to do. This is not the way to his successful completion. In 2003, we adopted a whole series of laws that allowed the police, for example, to fight organised crime more effectively than before. After that, we also established the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. In the course of the day, we will hand over to Parliament a bill that will allow the establishment of institutional architecture to fight violence effectively, not only at sports events, but also in public life. For this we also need specially trained prosecutors, who have effective laws, which can apply, judicial councils who are trained for this kind of work; special salaries, that is what is also important. If we want to fight violence effectively, then we have to have different institutions, these are not enough. The amendment of a member of the Code of Criminal Procedure is a stroke in the sea. I think we need to ask you for answers. We don't know who else. How do you understand, as a citizen of this country, the scenes in which the rooms of the party of the president of the state, the prime minister, the minister of police are lit? How does an ordinary man feel when he sees it all? Does he feel safe because at the end of the horde, someone was arrested and taken to prison? I don't think so. That barren belief that everything was fine, that's exactly what we were looking at at the time of the bombing in 1999, and after we declared victory. Nothing's wrong. The only thing we can bow down to is the willingness of the police to suffer, to suffer beatings and humiliations, and not react in any way, avoiding any more serious incidents. But it is not an answer to violence in Serbia. What you mentioned - the Internet, the attitude towards the Jews, towards the Roma, it has its standoffs, not in the opinion of anonymous people, but in the attitudes of the most significant personalities of our society, of those whom we withdraw, of whom we are silent. Well done to our church. Why argue with something that's been in existence for two thousand years? If we are tolerated enough for "The Parade of Pride", then we must also be tolerated for some lithium. We LDP don't have a problem with that. With something else we have a problem with, we have a problem with the attitude of someone who's not a patriarch, and he's more convincing than a patriarch, who announces sulfur rain, Soda and Gomorrah. In doing so, the institutions of this country are silent about it. I don't think he should be arrested, far from it, but I think we need to talk about everything. The police have also been attacked from the churches. The church isn't that. Those who attacked the police, who kidnapped people other than themselves, are convinced that they are thus defending the heart. I guess that's what someone convinced them. Definitely not us, definitely not that beast from Genoa. The government has no politics, no clear attitude. That's our problem. I'm sorry, that's right. In the serious government, the prime minister calls the sports minister and says -- this is the end, you can't do much, someone has to be held accountable, I'm asking for your resignation. Then the G17 party says -- wait, wait, what are you doing as prime minister, you, man, resign. The country in crisis, we don't have a prime minister, we don't have a parliament, we don't have a government. We have a president. We care very much about being a good president and being successful, so that tomorrow when we come to power, we can go one step further, and that's not a step out of the new ashes. But this isn't the way to it. Everyone knew there were planned incidents in Genoa. Absolutely all of them. Even the Italians, who only turned aside and allowed the plan to be realized. Everyone knows the Mafia has players in clubs. Everybody knows that. Who's responsible for that? Is it the one who's using that opportunity or the one who let him do it? That's what the club's management is responsible for, which allows for something like that. Did they ask for help? No, they're not. If they're not, they're responsible. That's the way we can handle it. Violence in sports is an incentive of violence in all other segments of our lives, and we want to talk about it. This is how society is wrong. Citizens are convinced that the state will be more efficient and capable, and it will not, in any way. We asked you to accept this correction, not because we want to play any role in adopting amendments to the law, but because we consider it to be the only way to affirm the idea of a democratic society by narrowing down the possibility of a state seeking a solution to the problem and sanctioning it rather than a cause. I'm sorry, but we spoke here in February of 2008, when Belgrade was destroyed. Here, I told the assembly speaker that "those who today are burning Belgrade in a year, two or three of them will be ashamed of it or will go one step further". They moved on, they went one step further. That's when they were backed up on it. Those who supported them were not even obliged to answer the public why they did such a thing. There are stenograms of the session of your governments, meaning the key institutions of this country, where controversy was conducted, say, between the Minister of Sports and Youth and one minister from the current ruling coalition, so a colleague threatens his colleagues to pass as well as those who have been beaten in the street. Right? What are you guys talking about, G17? It's not just "Telecom" topic for you, you're dealing with a little politics. Tell the truth. Go out with those stenograms and say, "These are stops." They went to the Arangelovac elections in the New Serbia coalition and "Our". It's a political project. So then New Serbia is in a coalition with the Serbian Progressive Party, so since one boss bakes brandy and digs a well, the other one leads politics... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... so he knows that everyone is innocent, and the next day we see this "innocentity without protection" breaking Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45395	National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45396	Dear Presidents, ministers, MPs, the state has, in particular lately, faced a serious problem of violence on the streets, sports events, not to list further, expressed as hooliganism, savagery, robbery, destruction; I will use one word – violence to do so further. If that is the case, then it is the obligation of all institutions of the state to engage in a vigorous fight against it. When I say all the institutions of the state, I mean much broader than the Assembly, the Government, the police, the judiciary; these are also clubs, and schools, and families and a whole series of organizations and associations dealing with these issues. There are many places to discuss the causes of the situation in the area and how to do everything to solve the key problem, the problem of violence in the most efficient way. I do not view amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure as something that will now solve an effective problem of violence. I see it as one of the measures for more effective enforcement of sanctions in that part, and in that sense I observe this code. So, if it is necessary to allow the amendment of the law to be made to Article 142 which speaks of whom detention can be determined, which determines two conditions for detention, one of which is that a ten-year sentence is threatened, and the other one is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of a criminal offence, if it is proposed, as one of the measures for more effective work in that area, that this is reduced and that the sentence is threatened for more than five years, but with the condition that remains, and that is justified because of the difficult circumstances of the crime, then we will support that law. Yes, we support him, given that he refers to criminal acts with elements of violence. If necessary, in order to work more efficiently in the area, to extend the detention procedure from eight to 30 days in a shortened procedure, in order to carry out the procedure more effectively and to enforce sanctions, and we will support it. We will also support the urgency of changing this law, and we will support it immediately. So we're going to give full support to the proposed amendments to the law in principle, believing that the government wants it, that it's ready to confront and face violence and do everything to stop it. Of course, we expect in this debate, however much the law is, to use the term "small," but it's important to remove all the issues, all the dilemmas, not to be a dilemma of whether this can mean anything other than creating conditions for the even more efficient functioning of organs in that area. Therefore, when there is a debate in particular, it is an opportunity for all these issues to be clarified. I think that in this way the National Assembly, as one of the institutions of the state, also joins this fight against violence, above all in creating legislative circumstances to resolve these issues. In this regard, Madam Minister, I have one question and one request. Given the role of the National Assembly, and this is not only the adoption of laws, it is not only the control of law enforcement, but also the advertising of all important events in this country through its bodies, the question is: is there anything else that this assembly needs through legislative activity to do to create conditions for efficiency in this area, and beyond that the Assembly requires that the laws be strictly implemented? It's not worth a story to us, just to get them to change in terms of tightening. They have to be conducted strictly. When it comes to laws, there's the key to the whole story. Of course, I know what I'm saying is dealing with the consequences, and the causes are far from here, but please, we can't wait for some others to find answers they haven't found before and we don't enforce the law. He has to be executed, and there's no dilemma. I say the consequences, because this is a question that the law solves and the organs act when it happens. All those shortcomings that were to be solved earlier, through prevention, through education, through families, sports clubs, which are a little bit out of our story, instead of clearly determining what a fan is, and what a hooligan is, and not sharing in the fact that hooligans are fans, and good fans are my fans, etc... All the consequences of indemnity fall on the burden of these organs that must apply sanctions, but they cannot stand, wait and say – listen, let us try it another way to solve it. The law must be applied. I know they're the first to hit the police and the judiciary, and first of all, the police. I am taking this opportunity to thank the police once again, who reacted in an extremely professional way, in an extremely patient way on October 10th, doing everything to prevent major conflicts, to protect the property of citizens and the lives of people. They've done a lot, and they've shown they deserve support for something like that. If this is a chance, let me take advantage of... I read the news in the paper that the government's rebalancing provides additional funds for the equipment and salaries of the police. I'm joining in support of that, but they're the first to strike, and the judiciary is behind it. I repeat, the Assembly must ask all institutions in this society to deal with this problem, because it is a great, huge danger, primarily for society. Of course, in this regard, I would like to understand, the energetic measures that the state should take towards those who commit violence have nothing to do with jeopardizing the right to gather, with the right to protest, to demonstrate, the right to root for a club that loves itself, to organize fan groups, etc. It is precisely by reacting vigorously to these situations, by solving the issue of violence that will separate exactly what violence is, and what is the right to protest, the right to gathering, the cheerleading groups, etc. I think this is an opportunity for the National Assembly to invite all other institutions, I repeat, from families, sports clubs, various associations, associations, to deal with this issue, everyone in their domain, in their area, but it is also an opportunity to try Serbia at least to clearly determine when it comes to violence. Is there any possibility that we can be unique in Serbia, regardless of political confidence and everything else, and say: violence is violence, there is no mine, there is none of yours? Violence is violence, and we should all fight it. If some violence is identified with the right to gather, protest, cheerleading, and others think it's a threat to the state, to the security of citizens, etc., there's no way. So if they observe violence like that, or if one violence is viewed in two different ways, we will find it difficult to get out of this problem. Is it possible that we really have a dilemma that violence is violence and that it should be treated that way, whoever it is? I think it's an opportunity for the Assembly to call in that part, and I guess we should all agree on that. I repeat, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the vote on the draft law in principle. Just a few words when it comes to this second law, the law on amendments to the Law on travel documents. It also means a little change, but it means a lot. We have seen from the reasons for the submission of the bill, from the reasons of the Minister's office, the essence of the change is to extend the importance of the old passports from the end of this year to the end of next year. We have seen that the only reason that our people abroad, our diaspora, have not been able to do all these jobs and thus resolve itself with a very important right. Because of the inability to do so in diplomatic and consular representations, insufficient equipment, perhaps insufficient knowledge of people living abroad where they can do so, etc. We found ourselves in a situation where the Serbian Ministry of Interior, which at least this time was very well organized... 2,700,000 passports were issued from the moment the visa-free regime was secured, almost half, so one large number, 425 seats in Serbia; work from morning to evening managed to do so. In addition to that commendation to the Ministry of the Interior, I think it should be possible, but this time again, that our consular representations in the world and next year to our people abroad can allow passports, as well as the possibility that when they come to the country on vacation, or something like that, they can do so in the MUP. So far, about 115,000 passports have been issued to our people abroad. So there's still a large number of our people abroad who don't have them. Data are likely to do so by emergency procedure when they arrive in this country, and there is an amendment that should be supported, that they do so within 48 hours, although the time limit for the regular issue of passports is reduced to 10 - 15 days. Not to be long, as long as there are our people abroad who have not been able to get that passport, they need to be enabled to create opportunities and conditions to get it. Just a few more sentences when it comes to this law, and that's my reason. I think the Law on travel documents and all that seemed to have contributed greatly to visa liberalisation and security of the visa-free regime. I think it's one of the greatest achievements of this government in the previous period. As important as that is, I would like to call on both the government and the MUP, given that I have read in the newspaper these days that an increasing number of asylum seekers are emerging in the Western countries, that this could even endanger the visa-free regime, and the observed efforts of our authorities to prevent it... I want the Assembly to support the government's and the interior ministry's efforts to vigorously oppose the abuses of the visa-free regime, precisely for reasons not to question it. We support the campaign that has started and which gives explanations to people what the visa-free regime is, what its opportunities and needs are, and what the abuse of the visa-free regime is. So, to spend the same energy on providing a visa-free regime and so much, please, energy and to counter the abuse of the visa-free regime. So, the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents we will support in the day of voting. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45397	Thank you. I give my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the misfortune to live in a completely divided state. On the one hand, the government, incompetent, is doing its job very badly. She's been lying to us every day, and all her work has been reduced to media promotion of plans, signing agreements, a sign that we could live better. On the other hand, there's a people, they're scared, they're unloved, they're depressed, they're disappointed, they're bitter, they're all in our houses today, with total uncertainty about what's going to happen tomorrow. People have lost their factories; people go out to the fields, they can't make anything; people go out on the street and get beaten; their children are exposed to the influences of all monsters. And the government doesn't do its job. Even the division between the government and the National Assembly. Most in the National Assembly made it possible for the government to work, or at least for those ministries that addressed the bill. I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that you who voted in favour of the laws that we are changing today do not bear the blame for voting for them. But consider whether you are carrying the blame because the government, which did not benefit you from those laws, is now calling again to amend those laws. What is the desire of the authorities in Serbia – that citizens walk on the streets of cities? Imagine that today some French minister of justice has explained this law and said that rampaging on the streets prevents us from entering the EU. What do you say to Sarkozy, to be driven out of the EU by rampage on the streets? Today I heard a representative of the ruling majority say that it is best to raise children in prisons. It doesn't make sense. What kind of prison for children? What are you talking about here? Do you want all those who are unhappy with putting you in jail? How much do you need for that? Have you perhaps anticipated a legitimate outflow of dissatisfaction on the streets? Maybe someone was telling you. Would you like to stop them this way? I'm a witness of how you can turn a political gathering into savagery, so that gives you an excuse to beat up those who are dissatisfied. I am a witness that MP Borislav Pelevic was shot in the head by a police officer, with a few meters away. So he was ordered to fire. I'm a witness that you threw tear gas at us when we expressed our political views. Today you have a conflict with the relapses of your behaviour on October 5, 2010. For a thousand years, there will be Serbia after you and none of you who took part in this on October 5th will be able to accuse or condemn anyone for what they have repeated after you. If there were such ideas of cruel punishment in the ruling majority at the time, a law on the prevention of terrorism in Serbia would have been passed. I think some of you would be out of prison today, convicted by that law. It's just, there's been some reason with many of us, so that law didn't see the light of day and didn't go into congregation procedure. You have to think well, seriously, and maturely about it. We're running to pass the law before the derby! Is Serbia running from derby to derby? If it wasn't for the derby on Saturday, would we be interrupting this session? We wouldn't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, but we're suggesting some derby, about which you disagree. Who? You, the politicians who are in sports. Beneath your wings, cheerleading groups have been surprised. Your representatives were in the boards of clubs that funded all this. You watched the mob get involved in all of this. For years, it's been said that some fans have terrible stores, that they deal drugs, that they do things. What did you do? Nothing. You may have seen in Genoa, when you go to the game you must no longer act like a fan, but as the leaders command, because you may be beaten by those leaders because you did not listen to them. When they say "jump," everyone has to jump. When they say “wild, ” everyone must go wild. You want to beat them all up? You want to go to jail? The courts are on strike, and you're talking about judicial reform here. The courts strike, the police are in uniform six years ago, chaos and hopelessness everywhere, and you will change the law, which has been amended three times, to implement it, to achieve something. Something instead of eight is going to be thirty days, something instead of ten is going to be five years. Come on, you can predict the same thing for a month to spit on the street. Let's take care of it and spit in the street, it really doesn't make any sense anymore. People smoke cigarettes, they throw butts, come on arrest immediately for a month, come on, short-term criminal procedure, come on. Who's gonna do it? Who are you going to implement this by, according to citizens who don't have bread, to citizens who can't wait to see your back? You're talking about the burnings of political parties' offices. I'm inclined to believe that you directed all of this, but all of it. The democratic party's behavior on that day, when they had a tire on fire in their backyard and they brought in a pregnant woman on Sunday to work, looks like RTS and a RTS bombing. If you're accusing someone at RTS of knowing about the bombing... Well, the BIA chief told you two days earlier that political parties would be attacked. What kind of villain took a pregnant woman to the DS that day? What's this man's name? Was he supposed to die or lose a child? Is that how the goal is achieved? Such evil goals, bad goals are being achieved. That's not how good goals are achieved. There's no insinuation here. You might think someone was making it for you, and I'm telling you that you did it. You mixed the cake, now it burns. There are people there who were with you and October 5th, there are those who know the congregation better than I do, and I've been a messenger here for almost twenty years; every corridor, every passage knows. There are still pictures of these halls and weapons from Mother Jerosima at their homes. There are all kinds of them. You've praised them for ten years. And today when you mention October 5th, you say -- heroes of democratic change. They were the same as they were the other day. They were just acting so much worse. The idea was to bring down power. You no longer have a rival to destroy power. What's wrong with you? That fear is completely unwarranted, unless the people come out alone, but you can't stop it in any way, not to recognize the participants, not to photograph them. The police won't fight those people anymore. You took the clay pigeons out there to take the punches, to show how democratic the police are. Which police are democratic when it prevents hooligans, what do you call them? Just a Serb to get to Europe. Gay parade drives the vans to a safe place, let them dance, let them jump there, and provoke these here, the challenges, instead of arresting those leaders. Two days ago, I found out that some guy named Keka, a drug dealer, was involved. Poor judiciary when we find out two days ago. No one knows anything about it. And those of you who know all about it, you never stopped that Keku. Or Lazu, or Peru or Mica, you know exactly all those people that organize it. You have divided the "Partisan" and "Stars" fans into two war camps. The SPS has "Partizan" under control, and Minister and Branko Ruzic, you are all involved in "Partizan", so now they are as good and calm, and in "Star" nobody has interfered, so they are not good and peaceful. You did all this. Now others will suffer for the consequences. No, you will. It's not a sport for the president of Serbia to take pictures when we win a medal. It's not a sport for a sports minister to take pictures with them. It's about the kids, not us. In fact, for people who deal with politics sports is mostly the past. I don't know a sportsman who could still make it to politics. Or you weren't into sports; when you start twice a day, there's no room for anything, almost no place for school. But you've brought the state into a state of chaos, from which you'd like to get out of a congregation session where you put two points together. Now I need to tell you about the extension of the passport. Is that a burning topic? Here you are playing with us, with our reason, with our patience – to draw up a pointless point of extension for passports (for the fifth time) with a burning topic, with crime, with the prevention of crime. The easiest thing to do is call people hooligans. The easiest thing for all of us who think we should ever express our dissatisfaction is to warn ourselves that it is subject to sanctions, a reduced criminal procedure. Who are you gonna stop? When he breaks down, who's gonna think about how many years he's in jail, if he says the government is bad and if he's in a group of five, ten, fifty, 100,000 people who say-- the government is bad? Who do you want to punish? Individuals do, and when does the phenomenon become mass? And you know for yourself, in these ten years, what you have failed to prevent, what you have failed to punish; it has passed as a phenomenon and can never be punished again. It's all based on lies. The media are hoarding -- this government will be fought, this government is strong and capable. What have you been up against? What is the name of the area in Serbia where you fought for the goals you set for yourself, and this congregation majority has approved them for you? Do you now really represent the people or only MPs of the ruling majority in the congregation? Is the people satisfied with your work, Madam Minister of Justice, with the cutting of all the judges you were not pleased with, the quotas you received from the political parties of the ruling majority, how many judges should be elected? Are you satisfied that you have received rebuke from Europe, which we seek, because of how you executed that cut? Are you satisfied that the Constitutional Court must not settle at the request of the Judges because you have not given them, because you have chosen them, your judges, your majority, five on the proposal of the President of the Republic, have chosen the President of the Republic, five High Councils, which you have chosen? Are you satisfied with the media report on what is happening in Serbia? Do you, too, believe, when you watch "The Diaries" that Serbia has come out of crisis? Do you believe we're hiring from day to day, that G 17 plus opens a factory for the factory? More and more important to you than the basic objectives in one country. Where were your laws? What were these laws waiting for Serbia's regionalisation, and they didn't come in line? To create another quasi-party here in Serbia. Let them attack you now and those who have done all this in their lives. You deserve it. It's not a ministerial place more important than that. You're a young woman, you haven't even seen your rights, you've become a minister. You didn't see the courts either, you didn't know anything about it. They caught you in a trap, they gave you the ones that got embarrassed, and they hired their family. You're going to be collateral damage, like that merry Wolf, Jeremy, I've predicted everything that's going to happen to him. I see something about you, too. The police minister won't give it, they'll give it to you. What are you? A weak, unprotected woman. Do not lead any party, no MP will stand in your protection. The government won't fall because of you. And you still, like, persist and promise us something. Whenever they tell you - what happens in Serbia, you say - that's why we reformed the judiciary. When will the results of this reform begin? Is this a court strike? Are these the results of the reform in the judiciary? What will be the efficiency of the courts now? You're sick of people out there. You treat them like a low-class population, because he has to bring in an act from the office. Well, he has to, and that's what a family should live on. He is not a judge, so what is he going to do that he is not a judge, that he may die hungry, that you should say to him, "There are hundreds of thousands of such who are waiting for a job?" That's what these privates do. This country can't do that. The state must have a soul for everyone, not for whoever's working with her, because there's gonna be someone else who's going to work for free. No one's going to work for free. No, it's a big crisis, a lot of people are hungry, a lot of people are out of work. There's a lot of kids on the street, a lot of kids are exposed to drugs, alcohol, prostitution to a minor. They're free to take pictures, and it's all around you. Maybe you have on your cell phone, too, to track it as a phenomenon, to see what's going on. You have the worst forms of crime in the schoolyards; you have televisions that are racing which will make a scarier movie public; you have daily lists whose first pages are filled with the team who killed the child, who slaughtered the grandmother, who this is, who that is. That's how society is formed, that's how consciousness is formed. Parents and children don't meet anymore, not at all. Kids come out when parents sleep, they come back when their parents are out of the house. Who's raising them? Street. You have attacks on churches, on SANU, attacks on everything that's Serbian. If you mention that you have something Serbian, they say – what are you going to do in Europe with that Serbian? What am I going to do in Europe if he doesn't give me Serbian? It's not all ours that's broken, is it? I'd like to ask this little group to shut up while I'm talking. I don't bother anyone when he's talking, and this is already organized in the crowd, so you know. (President: Please address the parliament. It is Parliament who listens as they speak. You have enough instruments in your hands to arrange the state. It depends on how much you get involved in it yourself. Since you're involved, all it takes is change. This should be solved by people who have never taken part in it, pure cheeks, for example us. You're right, I'm surprised you immediately guessed who should do it. I'm sorry, those who burned down this gym and today there's this problem they can't solve, that problem won't solve. Otherwise, it would be a shame, as a man I would be ashamed of if I had to condemn the one who burned the congregation, and I burned it myself. Then there's something wrong with society. I'm glad you know there has to be a change. It's been ten years of unhappiness, ten years of destruction, humiliation. Serbia is humiliated. Every citizen feels a little humiliated about what you've done so far. That's why we can't vote. We gave you the amendments. You have instruments in your hands. The instruments are European. The law that you're proposing to us today is a little further away from human rights and freedoms. Like, let's say, this smoking ban in the Parliament building makes a lot of people here think they're low-class to you. If only you had provided at least one room, like in all of Europe, where these people, smokers, can meet their needs. This is how you denied them, I think, the most fundamental human rights. I'm not a smoker, but I see how they feel. Every time you jeopardize someone's right to wish for your right to point out, you know that you've got an opponent more. We have the patience to wait for these opponents to be enough in the election to beat you, but consider whether there is a people's patience to wait for you to lose in the elections, which you do not give until you sell out Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45399	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45400	Madam President, I'm reporting and advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you've been under obligation, according to Article 104, to give a warning to the previous speaker, because, apart from making notorious lies, he's made completely unfounded accusations of whoever he's arrived, so I'm not going to go in line. What's also important and what's inadmissible is that he spoke hate language here. He was here to justify the thugs. Only a naive man can think that if someone says they deliberately brought in a pregnant woman, knowing what's going to happen... Then that means that it justifies the bullyes, that it justifies those who went physical aggression on anyone in this country. In that sense, I think it is inadmissible, according to our Rules of Procedure, that you are obliged to give him a warning. The only thing I can agree with is that since 2000 we haven't done one thing – we haven't lustrated those who spoke in hate language ten years before, those who called on everyone else to hate, those who called on everyone else to violence. Because if we had luted, firstly, we wouldn't be in parliament today, secondly, we wouldn't be able to justify violence from this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45401	I estimated that what MP Nikolic was talking about was simply putting forward his political views, which, to be perfectly honest, go to great harm with the political rating of the party he belonged to. If you consider that there was room for me to give a warning, I ask everyone to really take care of the content of the statement, not to insult others, not to protect what is protected cannot and cannot. I'm prepared to ask you all to take care of it, honoring the Parliament's dignity. If you're not satisfied, we can plead in the voting day. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45402	I was misread by Mrs. Kolundjia, and you must then support what Mrs. Kolundji says. I haven't justified violence in one single word. I didn't even justify him the day he was there. You can read the statements of the Serbian Progressive Party in which we first condemned violence and then sought the causes and consequences. When I talk about the causes of violence, I don't justify violence. By the way, if you'd lustrated everyone you were politically against in 2000, who would be in the government today? Where would you be, Minister of Police today, if you'd lustrated all your political rivals? I apologize to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic too, so she wouldn't be president of the assembly today. I'm really sorry. Mrs. Djukic, don't worry about the political party rating I'm running, I know it would be a great pleasure for you to have him down, but to your misfortune... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45403	You're usually controversial. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45404	The fact is that anyone who misunderstands the previous speaker has an excuse in that he too often does not understand what he says and what he really means and what he wants to be in relation to what he is. In that sense, I accept that I may have misunderstood that he is attempting to explain himself to a changed and different one. What I'm trying to say is that we've lastrated those who called for hate, who threatened with rusty spoons, who threatened with guns to students, taxi drivers, anyone who thought otherwise, to those who claimed—so what if Curuvija was killed, those who claimed—I'm not sorry that someone got hurt because he was doing his job, I don't think a particular group would be in this parliament right now. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45405	You don't have the right to a replica, this was an explanation to each other, and that's it. Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I must say first to all those who participate in the public, which applies to both government representatives and colleagues from the ruling coalition, that Serbian citizens can't be called hooligans, can't be called bastards, can't be called clerofasists, can't be called thugs, can't be called criminals, because they are criminals when they're proven to have committed a crime. All these categories that are heard in public are not constitutional categories and are not legal categories. Previous and current amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are done by order of a recognizable customer, just as when a suit is ordered for a customer who can pay fairly. The proposed amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are primarily inspired by the difficulties of the current government, and in particular by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in arresting protesters dissatisfied with the situation in the Republic of Serbia and growing social problems. Madam Minister, find me an example in continental law, find me an example in the Anglo-Saxon law that so penetrates fundamental human rights and freedoms, as many amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure have been imposed on citizens of the Republic of Serbia for several years, and this also tries to impose on citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be obedient because the current authority in the Republic of Serbia is introducing a dictatorship to a higher degree. Tell me, in which rule of law, individual cases or several cases are subject to alterations or additions to the laws of criminal proceedings that are intruding into fundamental human rights and their freedoms? You don't have a case like that. The general character must exist when it comes to amending and supplementing the law, especially the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not a proposal for a law on wine and rakia, not a proposal for a law on hunting and fishing, this is a proposal for a law that applies to provisions already in force in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. This only introduces greater repression and restricts citizens' rights, and opens up numerous opportunities for abuses and arrests of non-insanes of the current government. This is pointless, this has no purpose. You're referring to a complex situation. Who created this situation? You. Do you have laws on violations, Criminal Code? Why don't you use it? You want to arrest a whole Serbia that doesn't suit you now. Will you turn Serbia into a despotia? Sultan once had a concentrated power in Serbia: both legislative, executive and judicial. Today we have the same, only united in the hands of Boris Tadic, because he concentrated all three branches of the government and took it into his own hands. Is there democracy here? There's no democracy. Unsatisfactory with the results of the parade of shame, because it was not realised as the government wanted it, the government defined itself as proposing, by an urgent procedure, the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, at the very least, should serve as a law on the protection of the state that King Alexander passed in 1929. The sixth-year dictatorship was then. That shouldn't be allowed. The professional public doesn't allow it. Madam Minister, listen to the lawyers, the judges and the prosecutors. They don't agree with these measures, either, to go on repression. Madam Minister, you know well that democracy in one country is valued and valued only by the provisions laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in other procedural laws, where human rights and freedoms are being violated and threatened. You have to keep that in mind. You're the minister today, you're proposing certain projects, but you have to listen and what the citizens say, you have to listen to the professional public. You need to know what a deprivement means, you need to know what a holding is. Because you weren't in custody. In France, the judge and prosecutor cannot be a judge and prosecutor until they spend a month in custody, in prisons, to see what conditions are in prison so they can measure a certain type of punishment. Madam Minister, we have recently been inflationing certain laws that represent meaninglessness, something that has no value, something that doesn't produce any results. Madam Minister, you are a representative of the government, I cannot directly criticize you for everything, but we have an incompetent government. The government, which is in fact ruled by Boris Tadic, is not asking Cvetkovic, introduces certain measures that threaten the rights and personal freedoms of our citizens. Serbia has decided to bring down existing legislation and, as I said, turn norms into despotia norms. The last events that took place on this parade of shame are a shame. Where are you pushing the Serbian family? Will you allow a boy from Serbia to go to the Netherlands and bring a "snow" to our father and mother with beards and mustaches? The constitution predicts, and you allow marriages who know everything, the conclusion of a marriage between a woman and a man. What's this all about? Where's this going? This is worse than any war Serbia suffered in 1912, 1914 and 1945. What you're doing to Serbia and the Serbian people is worse! I don't want my children and grandchildren to be ashamed and say, "We live in a gay country." Where are you taking us, gay country? Get out the bastards who come here to promote... (President: Please, Mr. Jojic, I must ask you to compare the tone and talk about the agenda. ) Madam President, Madam Minister, will we have the opportunity, when citizens and strikers from the judiciary, the police, workers from the large systems, are dissatisfied, at these meetings, to support the EU's head of the European delegation and the ambassador of the United States of America and the socially endangered citizens and share fate and say – are the right citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have been robbed, have their factories taken away, have their businesses taken away, have lost their jobs, have no place to go? White Schengen visa. Where's your white Schengen visa now? Why are citizens now seeking political asylum? Now they're looking for a situation like this that we're in. Who's to blame? Boris Tadic and the government. If I were him, I'd have to answer, and if I were the minister of justice, maybe I'd resign. I couldn't listen to everything. Madam Minister, when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I must tell you that the Serbian Radical Party was in power in 1999 and 2000 and that we from the SRS with experts from the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, have created the most modern Code of Criminal Procedure, which you and your predecessors are struggling to amend and supplement. You can't, because I asked the Institute for Comparative Rights to stream certain democratic assets from all countries of Europe and Angolan law and to reach the highest standards in democracy, and to protect fundamental human rights. Let's go in eight days, in a short procedure, and for a chicken to lock up a man and hold him in custody for 30 days. Madam Minister, the problem is that many in public are advertised and threatened, threatened by judges, threatened by prosecutors, threatened by citizens. Now the citizens are wondering – do we have the right to go out on the street? Do we have the right to say that we are opposed to government measures? Do we have the right to say that we will not join the EU? What do we need the EU for? This is Serbia. However, as you can see, many are under pressure now. They've come into a hopeless situation and they have to accept everything they're told in Europe. We from the Serbian Radical Party say -- we will not go to Europe, and we say to Boris Tadic -- we will not go to Europe. That can't be done, because it's all at the expense of Serbian citizens. Madam Minister, there's also a police representative, and the police were pushed today to solve the problem instead of the government. Everyone's retired and the police are carrying the biggest weight now, and it's going naked and barefoot, with really lousy salaries. When are you going to tell the government that we have to have paid police? We must ask them to be responsible, to carry out their duties and tasks, to detect and prevent crimes and to protect the constitutional order and rights and freedoms of our citizens. The police are naked. Cops wear pully pants and blouses. They're wearing worn shoes. They don't get a uniform for five or six years. What's that? What is it, Mrs. Malovic, with the judiciary? Can you tell us why, for example, the judiciary does not use the full amount charged by court fees to improve its position? You're in a position, and I think you should do as much work as possible, set up the judiciary budget and finance the entire judiciary from that budget. So, you can convince me by morning, but I don't think bringing these changes and additions will work. This is political law, this is a law that needs to protect the government above all, to stay in power for a few more days. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia equal to those of the law? Well, according to my assessment, they're not. Those who burned this assembly on October 5th, who set fire to and robbed a police station in Mother Jerosima and those who went out for demonstrations today, are protesters. The organizers should be punished and just say – the perpetrator of the crime, and no, we heard from politicians from the ruling class: clerofashists, fascists, thugs, criminals. No, it's not a constitutional category or legal, we can't call our citizens that. The only thing we can say is, the perpetrator of the crime and that, or the perpetrator of that and that. He's answering and he's going to jail. But now you can't have the whole youth who's unhappy, who's out of work, she's out on the street... No one wonders why these amounts of drugs are used in Serbia, where children live. What did this authority give the young man? To demand a return to abroad and political asylum. Shall we do that? To believe, here, you see, we have a cheerful government and a cheerful government that prevents everyone in Serbia from living better. You said it was better to live, but none of it did. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you. Mrs. Dejanovic, I was able to find out that after October 5th, there was a haircut of the children of political inexperience in schools, and you know what case it was. That's what shouldn't be done, no matter who's in power. Here, one of your first fighters, Bogoljub Arsenijević, says: "I will burn the congregation, just to burn, to burn." The attack on the Assembly was prepared between October 4th and October 5th. A long-armed skipper arrived in "Belgrade" and divided. (President: I'd just like to ask you to stick to the agenda. It's an event... You are analysing a situation that is not appropriate to the legislator's tendencies. Are we equal before the law? Let me analyze one situation. Madam President, Mother Jevrosima Street has been seized, according to police reports, seven hundred long pipes, and there are rifles, semi-automatic rifles, helicopters and bombs. When they entered the congregation... What did Mr. Protic say? He said I saw a grab around me, steal chairs, take pictures. When they entered the restaurant, they started stealing whiskey, brandy, beer, oil, everything that came under their hands. I just want to draw your attention that we all have to be equal before the law: if we didn't say October 5th to those who were hooligans, they were protesters, and these today must have that treatment. They're protesters today, Madam President. But they're justifiably demonstrating. As for the perpetrator of crimes and crimes, why, Mrs Malovic, did not the judges conduct the proceedings and sentence the appropriate punishment? When it comes to detention, he's in the world, in parallel with the right exception. But now you want to make that exception a rule and you want to reduce it; not only does detention be determined, under the applicable Code of Criminal Procedure, for over ten years, but over five years. Now, whoever goes into that basket goes to jail. You will never achieve any point or effect among citizens such repressive measures. That absolutely doesn't give the desired results. Democracy is not built by writing harsh and dramatic penalties and certain laws. The sentence must be an adequate act, not as I as Minister or MP, or you, or the President of the Assembly, or the President of the Court, or the President of the political party wants. No, I don't. Boris Tadic's great responsibility is here. Will he sign these laws? I would never sign this. I would never grant pardons to those who commit those crimes that are prohibited by law. That's well-known. So when you look at these pictures, here's Maki in the picture here, who took part in the burning of the Assembly... You've got cops fighting and cops fighting, guns being taken away. I'm asking you, was anyone responsible for the robbery and kidnapping of that weapon, and where is that weapon now, does anyone know?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45407	Time. Thank you. He's got a word... Just tell me the base of the call. Cedomir Jovanovic? You won't? MP Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45408	Madam President, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could imagine everything, but in the 21st century in the Serbian Parliament, to hear such discussions and to come to such laws on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, I could never imagine it, that there was a debate here about what was, what was expected of Serbia, what would happen, etc., that somehow, Madam President, we would change the roles. Those of us who were on October 5th, this is where we condemn ourselves. I was at the head of that column that came in here. You now chair the parliament, and we came and we were against you – it was inconceivable to happen, but it happened. Now you're defending democracy, and we're hooligans, defending others. A little while ago, I was injured as a National MP when I heard someone here replicated one of the MPs and insulted him, he said he was defending violence. No one defends violence. No one's defending the killing, the injury. No one defends theft, crime. I've never heard of a normal man defending it. Don't constantly pin the labels on someone from the opposition because it's the opposition, look at your ranks. They don't defend crime there, they do crime. Madam Minister, you should have been a serious minister, you should have listened to Darko Pesic, one of the directors of "The Way of Serbia", who was removed and sent away because he did not want to sign some Dulic's solution, and to arrest Minister Dulic for being a true minister of justice. For the Nuba Invest thing, Dulic was supposed to be in jail now. Mr. Ilich, I'm sorry, please. Madam Minister is a very serious minister and don't speak to her, please, that way, because of the dignity of the Assembly, because of you, and also because of me. I'm sorry, Madam President. As the former minister, as today's MP, a longtime MP in this and that parliament, I am deeply in pain – when you let our media down, these days they do not come down from the Public Service of Words and hate language: violence, Nazis, hooligans, fascists. Guys, that's not normal. I have heard here for a while the head of a parliamentary group who used the same words in the Serbian parliament. What are we gonna do with us? Mrs Samardzic is due to resign. She's making some workshops for the youth. She spent millions on these workshops. For years he's been working on some workshops, educations, etc. I don't know what these workshops are for, ma'am. You have workshops to educate them, and you mention those words. I haven't heard anyone talking here about employment, production, macroeconomic, some serious issues. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, inflation reaches 10%. The highest in the surrounding countries is four times smaller. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the morning data of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce – construction has a 12% drop in production this year, and 18% in last year, even 12% this year, which is the engine of one country's development. I hear some ministers talking – they're developing, they're going to go, they're building, they're doing, but statistics say otherwise. Where are the causes of all this? You draw attention from normal topics of fascism, Nazism, violence, etc. It's true there's a bully, there's a bully in every country. Is France these days, Greece, in maximum violence? Yes, it is. But they solve the problem differently. Come on, and you solve this problem more seriously. No, you're gonna change the law, so you're gonna set up a holding for 30 days instead of eight. Why? Because you're expecting big demonstrations, a big outcry, but you can't get those people to process how much you plan to arrest. Here, you'll empty the prisons, you'll put on bracelets, you'll do anything, but you can't arrest them, there's a lot of them. The whole of Serbia will strike against you if you continue this way, because they are not violent, they are protesters, they demonstrate by democratic methods against poor authorities. And the bullyes, the fact that you sometimes put them in your ranks, that they make violence... Maybe they're yours, I don't know whose they are, I don't know any. Here, legitimateize some bully and post on TV and ask whose party he's from. I was hit violently, and the one on his chest was tattooed on Zoran Djindjic's hand, your former leader. Is he a bully? Why is there no record of the police, when I had brain surgery after the injury that was inflicted on me, a vein ruptured and all that was done and done...? The record's gone, ma'am. Is anyone being punished? It's not. No one's been punished. This guy was defending himself with silence. He didn't say a word. The trial took five minutes. He accepts everything, goes to jail, no problem. Whose is he? Who's his ideologist? He's not from the opposition, is he? If he didn't have a tattoo, you'd say he was from the opposition, as you tried, that he was, even, once a bodyguard; that's what you told me, but that's not true. You now forget one thing: power is beautiful, but it requires both responsibility and great commitment. Madam of the ruling coalition, in order to be successful, you have to hire a working-age population, but you can't do that. You can't understand that 1,600,000 pensioners can't function in the state and receive regular pensions without credit and borrowing and so much excise fuel. What's the charge of the excise budget? But you can't understand because only a million people in Serbia receive salaries. A million are employed and receive salaries neatly, and should support a million unemployed and 1,600,000 pensioners. That's impossible, technically impossible. So he has to get more work, and you have to work on it. It'll solve all these other problems. When employment starts, when big investment starts, this is what you're talking about. You're preparing for one derby of 6,000 cops. How can you not be ashamed? What kind of state did you make? Six thousand police officers are required to play one derby in Serbia, two clubs. How much does that cost? That's more than you've given the pensioners for 5,000, for a year's worth of misery. How much was the Pride Parade, security? It's not your fault, someone's making you do it. To who makes you say – people, don't make us do something that makes problems for Serbia. Have some strength to tell someone something. But you don't seem to have any. Don't accuse the opposition. We unanimously condemn violence. We're always against violence, but we're not against demonstrations, we're not against protests. Whoever's doing the wrong thing, when he can't figure it out, to resign and make elections, has to be warned by someone, and it's the people who warn, by going out into the streets. That's what you've been afraid of, you've been very scared of it, and now you're working on this to scare the people. Gentlemen, when I saw the Army Minister at the Cobra demonstrations... You know what that means for a serious state, to get out the Army Minister and say - I'll stand up, someone set fire to...? He's an institution. The Minister of the Army can't go out there to defend someone at the demonstrations. It's the exit of an institution on the street and the prevention of freedom and protest. Who made the decision to go to the defense minister for the demonstration? Whose decision is it to have the minister appear with the Cobra, military formation, on the street? Have you thought about it, Minister of Justice? Is there a normal state, a democratic state, that the Secretary of Defense can appear today...? You know what that means when it comes out? It's his to defend the borders, to protect the state. From what? What was he protecting on the street that day? For God's sake, he's protecting some pregnant woman. How'd you get pregnant on a day that wasn't working? She's the only pregnant woman who's here to work. It's very transparent and very simple, primitive and uncivilized. So you've mixed everything up. You want to scare the people, you want to scare the youth, you want to irritate the youth. Come on, put the ball down. You want to scare the opposition, you want to scare everyone who doesn't think like you. Put the ball down, it's a normal process, demonstrations, protests. Forget those words, gentlemen, hate speech. Forget it. I don't know that there is fascism in Serbia. We've had one game here that's in its ranks... They come out, they're fascists, and others are fighting Fascism, they split up to be in public, because they have nothing to talk about. They don't know anything else, they don't have any program, they don't have anything. They were never allowed to go into power, they were never allowed to take some serious function, but that's why they find some fascists, so they protest against those fascists, and then they go to the same restaurant together. That doesn't lead to good. You've divided us in Serbia into similar, unspeakable, Chetniks, partisans, traitors. Now you're dividing us into fans, who's for this option, who's for that one. You spent it all and you shut it down. Let's shut down those clubs, let the kids deal with other things, get away from sports. Instead of bringing youth to the playgrounds, we're asking to play a game in front of an empty stadium. It irritates people, and it's causing problems. Well, there's no viewers. I've been to the European and world championships in certain sports, in front of twenty-thirty viewers, no one will. When the Minister gets there, she ruins everything. She doesn't know that she sent athletes to prepare, that they didn't pay for the preparations, so they expelled people in one hour from Budapest; they expelled us from the state because we don't pay the bills. He didn't pay for that man who pays for it at the Department of Sports. The man says there's no money. Now you want to settle all this with the law, scare someone, put them in jail for 30 days, so their parents can't find him, they don't know where his kid is, as is happening right now. So, you go after the thugs, you chase those organizers, you chase these guys who sit around the clubs and arrange their sessions. They are responsible for those clubs where no one can touch anyone, and where they do not sit, where Miskovic has failed to take everything and privatise, there can be trampled as anyone wills. Therefore, the hungry people must do something. He can't sit at home hungry; there must be some activity to get to something. The animal, when she's hungry, goes and runs, looks for food. And a hungry man must go out to protest and seek. So 500,000 people starve in Serbia. Gentlemen, this is the first time we've imported milk, meat. Why? Ask Minister Dragin, ask him why it's done. Why were there such wrong privatisations? You open a factory every day, and you didn't hire a thousand people in total. You've been talking about the Fiat for years, and there's a thousand people working there, and there's 250,000 people in the city. Think about how much a job costs in the flag. Those from the "Fiyat" just enjoy and say – this is nowhere, only in Serbia. Now you've found a Yuru, you're breaking in China, and you don't know what you want. Can't our companies build a bridge? Can't our Bridge build a bridge? You need the Chinese to come and build you a bridge and drive you out of China, that's your idea. Why? How much did you invest in investment this year? You find the funds there, you look for them, and where they're gone, you chase where Serbia will lose, and you don't look for them where the money stands, because that's where you embarrass yourself, you took it, you didn't finish the job. Why didn't you finish the jobs you took? How many credit lines haven't been realised today? Because there's no one to do it. You don't do that, you do hooligans, violence. What's someone from the embassy gonna think about watching our "Dnevnik"? That we are a land of wonder, a bully, a bully, a fascist, a neo-fascist, etc. What will a young man who comes to Serbia on the outside think? They'll think, let me get out of here as soon as possible. But that's not true. This is a peaceful state. There's more violence in the environment than there is in us. Don't make and stage something you don't have. You're looking for the devil yourself. Get out of this job. Therefore, you are dealing with problems that a serious government needs to deal with. Madam Minister, you're being demonstrated by the judges, you're being striked by the courts. You will now request an extension of custody for three years. Why? There's no court order. You can hold them all you want. Why are you holding them in custody? People won't work, you don't pay them, you don't pay anyone. You want everything on the inside. That's why Kalanovica has her own budget; when she walks through Serbia she pours only, but to the regional parties to join. My president of the municipality, from Raca, came, all the committees and you, ma'am, to come to the regional party, so here comes Jura. You won't sign, there's no "Jure" in Raca. Jura's here, let's see what you do now. It's your democracy. That's what we fought for. To conclude, you're on the wrong path completely. Go back to your normal path and everything will be fine. Fight, let the institutions do their jobs, let them fight violence, that's their job, and that's why they're paid, and we, gentlemen, this Parliament, need to deal with more serious issues than these.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45409	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45410	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, I believe that the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, is the dignity of the National Assembly. When some MPs tell you about civilization and civilized behavior, it's just as sad as calling criminals on motorcycles throwing Molotov cocktails at the police, it's just as sad as this first thing I was talking about. When criminals who attack a pregnant woman in the Democratic Party, who worked because the Democratic Party works seven days a week, is insulting common sense... Therefore, I ask you to take care of what some MPs say in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45411	I really pray, now and on your initiative, that we all take care of the dignity of the congregation. I honestly think that the heads of Parliament are talking first and foremost to those they assume to understand. It seems to me, like you, that it is wrong, but they and the citizens will have to judge about it. We simply don't have the opportunity to just qualify, but we need to give the opportunity, especially to the heads of Parliament's groups, to speak to citizens and to assess the content of what they're saying. Mr. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45412	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 107; I mean not only Mr Ilic, but also some previous speakers. I agree, Madam President, with you, but unfortunately, that rule cannot be applied in this case. Of course, the congregation is the place where we speak to each other the least. We here in parliament address those we want politically to influence. The way we do it in such a difficult situation is catastrophic. We can continue to live outside this hall in two tribes or three tribes and regulate on each other. What kind of country is that where someone shoots a photograph of the party president, and that country lets that someone not call himself the real name, but is called a Protestant who is dissatisfied with the politics of the government? I'm sorry, I'm an MP in Parliament who passed a law. Under that law, the people of my country, the citizens of this country, the Belgrade citizens, decided to exercise one of their human rights. This law equally allows them to live in this country, relying on that right. As I think radicals have the right, under this law, to seek some Serbian doctor to analyse Seselj's medical records, to state the health status of Seselj, not to be told about the health status of Seselj, because here someone does not believe the report of The Hague tribunal. I think it's a shame, Mr. Jojic, I agree with you. But it's also a shame when you measure my ability to be a good parent through my attitude towards someone else's desire to love someone in a different way than most in Serbia want. I'm sorry, if anyone doesn't agree with that, it doesn't give him the right to kill him. If someone is Tadic's political opponent, don't, Ilic, make this country a society where they will kill themselves. What does that look like? Let's get this back... All right, if someone's unhappy with the government's policy, let their dissatisfaction... We're unhappy that he's doing Palm. I have no right to criticize those who say that about "The Parade of Pride" and to keep my mouth shut about Palma. He's part of your ruling coalition, so, Cvetkovic, get him in line first, and turn to others. I think that's how it works in normal democracies. But someone listens to this, and they don't have that capacity of understanding and tolerance that we have for each other, so they're going to push justice out again in a way that definitely doesn't come to justice, but only to a bigger accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45413	Mr. Jovanovic, there is nothing left but to agree with you. Let's see if it will contribute to the dignity of the Assembly by expressing the measure of verbalization that the heads of Parliament have above all. There is room for comment; as you know, I have asked both speakers before you, and the third, during the presentation, to take care of the content, the way, the tone, etc., but the expression of measures could be taken under my inadequate interpretation of the political messages they send. I think citizens should know their political messages. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45414	Of course, I don't think one warning can solve it, but I think if we go over it all in the end, we're creating an ambience where someone thinks it's normal. That's our problem. I don't think you as president should take someone's word away. Of course, the only thing we have left is to rely on common sense in society, but it's the very majority that's reasonable that moved from this reality, so October 5th against October 10th, and 99% of the people on the side are looking at it. These people are hostages to this abnormal relationship. That's why we need a wider debate here than the one we're now forced to. Of course, those who insist on democracy, on protecting human rights, civil freedoms have the opportunity to vote in favour of our amendment to correct this law and thus enable the police, prosecutors and courts to be effective in countering any kind of violence without bringing general freedoms into question.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45415	If you're not happy with my answer, do you want to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45416	Dear President, I'm advocating a member of the 27th Rules of Procedure. I would like to compare some of the situations that are happening here and the relationship of the chairmanial assembly (not you, of course, thank God that you are currently chairing because we can talk) with some views of MPs from the ruling coalition today. I do not want to interpret at all what counterpart Nada Kolundzija and colleagues have said, but it seems to me, Nikolic, that they are not allowed to refer you to the respect of the Rules of Procedure and to whom you are to give the sentence. That's forbidden, that's what you tell us. Mr. Spasojevic received a warning the other day from Mrs. Komic in 56 seconds because she felt she had no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, both Mrs Nada Kolundzija and Mr Nikolic advertised, and apparently there were no injuries and you should have given them a warning. Otherwise, if there had been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you would have given some punishment to Mr. Ilic. So, please, this is now an example of the double arches, the youth is vexed, the injustice - according to one of the messengers like this, and according to the other MPs it is so. Mr. Jovanovic, I'm going to use these fifty seconds as many as I've got to two minutes. I don't fight with my opinion and my safety. I may be conservative, Mr. Jovanovic, but what I thought twenty-thirty years ago about Straight Mountain, I'm thinking right now. (President: Do not speak, please, to Mr Jovanovic. I'm sorry. The problem with some of the MPs who spoke before me was that they had the honour of getting baptized by the bishops, so they don't like it now, because it's not worth it, and liberal ideas are worth it. From where, I guess one day they'll find out in this country. So, I'm the one who's left behind, Mr. Jovanovic, unlike you. You have entered politics with the cross and as a representative of the right-wing movement. You give up these ideas, but don't spit on those who have remained faithful to those ideas, Mr. Jovanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45417	Mr. Markicevic, I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You did what Mrs. Kolundji did, you advise me on how to conduct the session. It is the right of every MP to make an observation in the way I conduct the session, to call on a certain member, and it is my duty to assess your suggestions and not accept them most often, when it comes to you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45418	Of course, I'll be brief. I think it's clear to every normal man how unhappy is the country where we all have to live under one dress. You don't think that I now explain to you here in Parliament the reasons why I was baptized and the way I was baptized. I think it's really stupid, first of all. I guess it's some human right. As for the other one, I went through a student protest. Although I have no inclinations or understanding of what is symbolized by the Ravnogorski Movement, I don't think we have put them at risk, and especially not in the way that those who consider themselves as protectors of Serbian tradition have reduced their struggle to chasing the Emergency Centre, burning parties and robbing shops. I wish you'd stolen your home shoes, but you'd stolen the hateful American shoes. I'll finish my replica with this. I just think that the way we're having this debate is, to a large extent, the cause of the problems we're talking about, certainly much bigger than the cheerleading groups that we've deformed by our dissuade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45419	Mr. Jojic, you have the right to a replica, you are also mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45420	I only have objective access to all forms of violence, and I would like the law to be applied equally to everyone, and to those thugs, if they were violent, but they were called the protesters on October 5th... . (President: Excuse me, who are you replicating? That's what you said. Yourself? ) Cedomir Jovanovic just spoke on the subject and challenged some facts. (President: I don't understand who you're replicating, and you've answered the line. I'm sorry, please let me explain, because he misread me. I see equally those who burned the congregation on October 5, 2000, and those who are doing something that is a crime and a crime. On the other hand, I must also tell you, and there are colleagues from the Democratic Party, that citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution. As for these protests, burnings and these dissatisfactions, you can see that you also have major protests in France, Slovenia, Germany and other countries. And there's flames, but there's no French word from Sarkozy -- you're fascists, criminals, dogs, thieves, and thugs. No, he's applying the law. That's why I'm legal, in the sense that we should all be equal in front of the law. Every form of violence must be sanctioned, but adequate. If the three or four led the group... Please, on October 5th, "deli" burned and burned here with Maki, raided this station in the Mothers of Jevrosima and seized weapons. You have to understand that all those who don't think as current authorities in any case are not the enemies of this country and the enemies of this people, they're just dissatisfied citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45421	Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45422	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable representatives of the government, the government has been giving us some very strange decisions for days. The last in a series of very strange decisions is this one today. We are asked to change the Code of Criminal Procedure for one social event, for one game that has yet to be played. Is that normal? Are we even a normal country if we do things like that? If we were a banana state, if we were some bantu state, where there were no laws and where the state had no other means at its disposal, I would understand this. Gentlemen, let me remind you, we are the state in which the most rigorous law, the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Games, is in force. The main problem is that it's not being applied. I am now referring to the question, not just the minister of justice, but to the representatives of the government at all, why is it not being applied? What's so controversial about him that he'll apply? I'll remind you that during our power, that law has been amended. The changes were made according to the English model and it became the most rigorous. It was done during our government. The state, if it wanted and wanted, can ensure that every sporting event in the country passes peacefully. Why isn't that done? It is not just because sports clubs themselves can come under the influence of the law, where representatives of our ruling majority sit. Now I'm asking primarily the Minister of Justice is that the key reason why he's not being applied? I'll also remind you that there's a provision in that law that says it's possible for people who are aware that he's going to commit violence at sports events, or games, and who owns a criminal record to take a step away from sports events. If the presumption of what it means: if it is spoken (expressed by the court), the perpetrator himself would have an obligation to report to the police shortly before the match itself and to watch the game through television from that same police station, if he's interested. I will refer the question to the Minister again. Is this measure given to anyone? If it is, I admit I may not have information about it. Let him just answer us against how many faces she's currently in power. Madam Minister, nothing is done in this area except make strong sensational statements. Of course the reasons for that exist, I just explained them a few minutes ago, but I'm not clear that absolutely nothing is doing, even though the possibilities exist. Instead of applying the law, you are reaching for a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where detention turns into criminal sanctions. You know very well that detention is not a punishment and that it is an exceptional measure and that it cannot be applied as a rule. With this amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, you make it a rule. I know that you've had in mind that this rule applies to wrongdoers, but by amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, you've given us the right to apply it against all persons and against all criminal acts for which prison sentences have been prescribed for more than five years. If the intention was to arrest the persons first, so that evidence was sought against them while they were in custody, then let's abolish the courts. What do we need courts for, let the police arrest, let them bring her in, let her rule. Is that the goal of this country? Have we reached this level of democratic development that this is our goal? Unfortunately, this reminds us of some failed actions from the recent past, where human rights have been flagrantly violated. I hope that's not the point here. These changes should not be a repeat of something that has proved to be wrong in history. I'll also remind you that the capacity of our detentions is 12,000; so 12,000 people can be detained, or closed at the same time in our prisons. Right now, the prison sentence... So the judicial verdicts imposed on prison sentences were brought against 16,000 people. You're finding yourself that 4,000 people are waiting for a prison sentence. Is that the tendency to follow these changes? Also, I'm not sure these solutions are in line with international standards. In this I had the opportunity to question even more about the moment I read in my explanation that such solutions are not contrary to international standards. You'll have to admit it's a very strange formulation, which we haven't had a chance to see so far in explaining our legal proposals. Of course, that is, insecure and for the motionary himself, written in the last sentence. It wasn't hard for me, I had time to see how things were in other countries, primarily in countries in the environment. We will take an example of BiH, where it is said: "In exceptional circumstances, if it is a criminal offence for which a sentence of ten years or more severe punishment can be imposed." I'm talking about the first change in the CAP. Then, Croatia: "Investing prison is necessary for the uninterrupted conduct of proceedings due to particularly difficult circumstances of committing a criminal offence for which a long-term prison is prescribed". If you read what a long-term prison is about, you will see through the law that it refers to exactly the acts for which prison sentences have been prescribed for over ten years. Montenegro – the same ten years. Next, I will take one European state, Norway. Article 172 states: “The detention will be determined according to the person suspected of a criminal offence for which a minimum sentence of ten years is provided for. ” So, what are we doing here? We are doing something here that does not comply with international standards, which is not in line with European laws. The second amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure concerns a shortened procedure and here the detention is extended from eight days to thirty days. I will remind everyone that the role of the shortened procedure is to complete the procedure more quickly. So it is understood that we already have evidence based on which a direct charge is possible, on which there is the possibility of a direct charge, i.e. to raise the indictment proposal. The investigation itself has been skipped in this situation. Of course, there's a possibility that a judge, an investigative judge, predicts certain investigative actions, but these are investigative actions, they end, the subject returns. So, the essence of the shortened procedure is just a quick act. With these amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, you're devising the meaning of a shortened procedure. You don't do it that way. The only thing behind this provision is ignorance, the inability to take all necessary measures to act alone within eight days. This, unfortunately, is how I primarily think about this first amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and of this second one, which is related to the shortened procedure itself, is changing international criminal and legal standards. It changes something that has existed decades ago and that a normal, stable, legal state should never allow itself. Furthermore, instead of looking at some old European countries with a long criminal-legal tradition, in which, of course, it is unimaginable to change these standards, we have decided to change the CAP for one game. To make it clear to the public what I'm talking about, I'm just going to call in some criminal laws that have been in force, or are still in force, for many years. For example, the German law was valid from 1871 to 1950 and some years. Do you realize what time it is? French – from 1810 to 1994, it means 180 and some years. Dutch, with some changes, since that time alone has been in force since 1886. In Denmark, the 1930 law is in force, and Switzerland in 1942. Why am I saying all this? I'm talking about because the effects of changing a provision in criminal law can't be seen immediately, they can be seen in twenty years or more. It's only on this basis that you can know whether a solution has given or failed to produce results. That's why it's completely pointless to change the law, and it's even more pointless to change the standards themselves. This shows, of course, that you have no vision, that you have no knowledge and that you have no expertise as a particular problem, that has appeared to you in society, to solve. It's not just the goal and the way to repress. It's not just the repression that solves violence. It's getting bigger that way, it's just deepening. The government needs first of all to create conditions for a better life. The government should create better socio-economic conditions in the country itself, instead of promising that sometimes, for twenty-thirty, maybe longer, it will be better. These unreal promises have led us to believe that in two years more than 250,000 people are out of work, that we have the lowest average salary in the region, lower than in Albania, and that 650,000 people are literally on the verge of hunger. These are devastating facts describing the lack of hope for the situation in Serbia. Violence is undoubtedly something before which red entire society, none of us were comfortable watching those scenes from Genoa, but it cannot be viewed isolatedly, out of the overall social context. That is why it is necessary that we all work together to make it a different society, primarily to think about preventive action through the role of family, school, media, sports clubs. I will also remind you that there are provisions in the Law on the Prevention of Violence that clearly apostrophe the educational role of sports clubs. Have sports clubs ever held any lectures, the stands, so, let's just say, a seminar on how faces should behave at the game itself? Of course not. It seems very funny to someone, but it's extremely important for those who first come to football games. It's very important that they understand a code of conduct that can't be violated. The courts and the police are the last link in this chain. They only have the law at their disposal, which is good, it just needs to be applied. Unfortunately, I said why it is not applicable – and because some representatives of the ruling coalition might come under his attack. Now, in the end, the "reformed" judiciary has been asked to apply this CAP since Saturday. Very interesting. I must say that the judiciary as such is very negatively apostrophe in the European Commission's report. Whether and because of the application of these provisions on detention, which do not find their place in any European state legislation, the judiciary will suffer criticism from the European Commission, we will see it in the report itself. Of course, one thing is for sure that the European Commission does not view the re-election process lightly. They believe that it has not been carried out in accordance with European standards and, of course, that the judiciary, we have all had the opportunity to read lately, at the top of this government's most negative effects and the biggest European Commission's grudge. Whether or not it will find its place in the report, we will remain to see it on November 9th. Finally, to conclude, the Democratic Party of Serbia supports any decisive action by the state, in general, of society, that the problem of wrongdoers and bullys is put in full, once and for all, an ad act. We believe that there are legal opportunities for this, and that the state, namely the courts and the police, should apply what they already have at their disposal. We're like a party that's recently being run by the most brutal campaign right now when this issue is on the agenda, very interested in solving this issue, but if it's a way to solve it through what you're proposing today, then you're on the wrong track. It is very strange, if there is already the most rigorous law in our country, which can be dealt with effectively with by the wrongdoers themselves, that we have no results at all, or that the results of that reckoning are barely visible.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45423	Sixteen minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my five minutes, I'm going to say, through examples, let's say, today's headlines in the paper, where we are in a situation related to the proposed changes to the criminal code. Serbia is becoming an exporter of security, says the defence minister for the participation of Serbian police and military in peacekeeping missions. In that time, we need to change these members of the law, I guess, because we're less safe. How, then, as insecure, threatened by hooligans, can we export security to someone? He says, in the waste, over these swine flu vaccines, which he still remembers, 4.8 billion euros... At the end of the month, they're running out of validity. During that time, the minister insults MPs in parliament yesterday. They say it's possible to import milk from Germany. During that time, we're talking about Keka today, not because she doesn't have milk. A quarter of Serbia's citizens suffer from depression, scientifically established, and we expect every fourth family, which has a depressed one, to bring up the youth in the right way, to know what tolerance is, etc. Inflation is above the upper limit, pushing it up the price of food products. It's violence against families who don't have money for food, and then it's their children's fault, or their parents who don't get to raise their children in the right way. Don't let anyone think that this is how I justify violence. No, I'm just saying what caused it and what led to it. The next report on Serbia's progress towards the EU will include criticism at the expense of, under one, judicial reform. It's been published today. It is likely that these changes and additions will help improve the picture of our judiciary or of us as lawmakers in Serbia. The non-starting of the restitution process, the situation in Sandzak, the media situation, are the four biggest objections. Everyone's getting ready to spend Telecom. The government will "eat" all the money from Telecom. Of course, it's not about that, it's about derby. Darby's much more important. A hundred thousand more hungry this year. It used to be family games, it's also one of today's headlines. For example, I went to the football game for the first time with my father, who, Madam Minister, is a retired District Court judge. He worked in the judiciary for forty years. I don't know which parent can take kids today, and how many are there to go to football games with their fathers? Where'd he get the money for two, three, six tickets a month, how many games to watch? I didn't go with my peers, I went to games with my father, so only later, when I became a minor, with my peers, but at the time I had a built-up opinion on what was a sporting event, what was a game, who he cheered for and why he didn't like it, and why the other one didn't hate it. Today is not the situation. It's all our fault. Are these changes, even a question, of the CAP breaking citizens' rights? I think they're breaking and that's why I won't vote for this amendment, and I'll talk about the details when the amendment is debated. Why? Because the European Charter of Human Rights and the Universal Declaration prohibit the adoption of new laws or parts of laws that reduce the already reached degree of human rights. Gentlemen, especially from the ruling majority, you've advocated so much respect for human rights these days, and you were right. They had the right to protest and no one had the right to physically prevent them, although others had the right to protest against them, but not to use violence. But if you already think so and if you are in favour of it, precisely because of the European Charter of Human Rights and the Universal Declaration, which prohibits the adoption of new laws or parts of the laws that are already being reduced, it would be good to vote against this proposal in the day of voting, because this is exactly what it does, and this will also contribute to Serbia's slow progress towards the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45425	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45426	The President-in-Office, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I will speak very briefly. We only change two members of this law here today. One refers to criminally, or in which case the measure of detention can be imposed, so for the act for which the penalty has been threatened so far has been ten years, it is now five years, and as long as it can last. So it's not true that this provision that's now being changed in this way determines detention as 30 days. So it's just a possibility that in some special cases detention can last 30 days. Is this about repression? I don't think these changes in any way sharpen criminal policy and that this way the state does not increase repressive measures against anyone. It is, in my deep sense, and that is why the MEP Group for European Serbia will vote for this law in the voting day, on the need to make the processing of perpetrators of criminal acts more effective. In that sense, all those who talk about children, the dissatisfied citizens who are going to get hit by this, about the social difficulties of the citizens to whom this applies actually deceive the public. This is about perpetrators of crimes, and serious crimes, for which the sentence has been threatened for at least five years. I don't think it's fair for anyone to deceive citizens that it has anything to do with any dissatisfaction, protests, etc. Everyone has the right to express their opinion. Everyone has the right to protest in the way the law predicted. So it's not about those who want to show their dissatisfaction, it's about those who break the law and threaten property, security and people's lives. What's crucial is when someone wants to challenge us that we are in some way suspending the acquired degree of human rights, I have to say it sounds rather pointless, because one of the fundamental rights is the right to peace, security, security of property and life. It's a country's obligation... Because the state alone has repressive systems, or measures that can enable every citizen to exercise these fundamental human rights, which is the right to every form of security, and at the same time punish all those who in any way threaten this fundamental human right. In that sense, these mourning over those to whom this will apply are, in fact, to some extent, the support of those who commit violence, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is in some way a disabling, that is, to make the state's political stances less effective in implementing what is its primary obligation, which is to protect every citizen, his life and his property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45427	It was used three minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45428	I thank all representatives of the parliamentary groups who have so far discussed the amendments to these members of the Code of Criminal Procedure. For the sake of further discussion and clarification of certain issues raised in the first part of the discussion in this distinguished home, I want to tell everyone that I feel neither weak nor unprotected, on the contrary, I feel very protected because there is a state that cares about it with its organs. At this point, I want to point out the fact that there's been a major escalation of violence. The state is trying to respond adequately to that. These provisions also have a preventive and repressive character. A preventative character – to deprive anyone who may intend to do so in the future, not to. You know what'll be waiting for him. Repressive character – those who have made incidents, unrelated to whether they are crimes or offences, will be adequately sanctioned or their presence will be secured during the criminal proceedings. I also want to point out another fact that has been mentioned here several times as a thesis, which is that these changes are made because certain events are expected in the future derby, at a game scheduled for Saturday. I want to tell everyone it's a complete misinformation. We're not doing this for a future game, we're doing it for some changes that came at the end of last year. We all had the opportunity to listen in this distinguished home to a debate about amendments to the Criminal Code, where certain incrimination was introduced for the criminal act of causing riots at sports events, so incrimination was extended to public gatherings. On the basis of these changes, the persons who seemed to appear on "The Parade of Pride" are now being processed. In practice, it has proved necessary to extend the defendant’s presence to acts that threaten the sentence below five years. The question of whether reform of the judiciary results is also mentioned here. He's giving the results. The European Commission's report is expected, we'll see what it will be like. Unlike the previous government, we are talking to representatives of international organisations and we will talk and we do not have frozen agreements, but we are trying to meet problems and solve them. We already have the first sentences imposed on certain persons who are publicly apostropheeded as bearers of crime and organised crime. We've run a drug trade procedure for the mob that's been branded in world proportions as one of the bigger ones. We have one of the biggest drug seizures. These are the results of the reform, and I hope it will be even more visible in the future. I expect we'll talk more about it in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45429	Right on line, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45430	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107 1: "The speaker at the sitting", which means that he also refers to the minister, "The National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly". In the beginning, the Minister said that misinformation is that we are saying that we are making these amendments to the law because of an event, allegedly a derby. I remind you that the entire public has just informed the President of the Assembly, from where statements are made, that this will be brought quickly, within two days, that the session we started will be interrupted, started regularly and will be passed before the derby of this law. So, the president of the assembly, that's what the minister from here says, misinformed the public. That was the statement of the President of the Assembly. She said it first. As MPs, I guess we believe what our president is saying and we're listening to it. She said that because of this event, this was brought to those later, so that the law would be applied later. We don't argue that the law will be applied later, but the president of the assembly said that the reason for the adoption was precisely... I think what the minister did was, slightly said, a scandal, because she called the president of the disinformation assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45431	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Too bad you didn't use your right to replicate. So, by providing information from multiple sources, even in your interpretation, it cannot be violated by anyone's reputation. It's up to the listeners to assess what's true of the information that's being provided. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to a part of the debate involving MPs in the order of their application for a word, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Articles 90, paragraph 2 and Article 87(2), that we will be working today after 1800 hours until the completion of work on the joint principled search of points 1 and 2, which are now the subject of our work. I would also like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDP, New Serbia, the SPS-JS, the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group of the DSS, the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group and the MEP Group for European Serbia. The first registered speaker on the list, according to a number of MPs, is MP Djorđa Milicevic, after him, MP Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45432	Mrs. Comic, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that the SPS condemns any kind of violence, hooliganism and savagery. When we say that, of course, we don't think that citizens are savages, hooligans and bullyes, but we clearly condemn behavior that can be defined as savagery, violence and hooliganism. We simply believe that savagery, violence, and hooliganism are not manifested and does not prove patriotism. Of course we don't mind that someone is protesting because they have the opposite opinion, according to the Constitution, the law, legitimate procedures, because it's democracy, but the question is whether it's what it is and what it's like when someone falls into the Emergency Center, when they break the mammogram, when Molotov cocktails and stones attack political parties' headquarters, the headquarters of national television, when someone beats to death a guy who cheers for another team. So there's going to be a disturbance in public order and peace, but what's fundamentally important is that no one is and will be stronger than the state. I would say that it is recognizable that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry (when I say the Resolute Ministry I think of the Ministry of the Interior) recognize one determined and successful fight against crime and corruption and, in Serbia, I would say, recognise public order and peace. The proposed amendments and additions of the Code of Criminal Procedure have been defined as one step further in the fight against hooligans. They actually need to provide a more effective trial for hooligans. As the mandated representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary club, the SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports the legislative proposal. This is actually about three members. Therefore, arrests are also scheduled for acts for which the sentence of more than five years has been threatened. We think it's something that needs to help the police and the D.A. to do their part of the job in the early stages. The second member to be changed refers to the extension of the maximum length of detention from eight to thirty days. And the third member foresees that this law enters into force the day after the publication of the "Official Messenger", which is, of course, justified. So, essentially, the proposed change is the fight against crime, i.e. the fight against hooligans, the fight against violence, savagery on sports grounds, through the urgent tightening of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We support, in principle, the proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure because we support the intention and support the objective that this legislative proposal aims to achieve, i.e. the proposed amendments and additions. We also believe that through the discussion of details, through amendments, there is room for us to perhaps come, in some context, and to a better quality legislative proposal. It is true that there is a well-founded reason for urgency. It's true that we should have talked about this a lot sooner. It is true that there are many open questions – whether these changes are prejudged in some way by a court decision, whether to leave room for abuse, and we agree that a measure should be specified according to certain acts. So this is one measure and these changes and additions we define as one measure. It takes respect for the law. The law must be enforced, it must be the same for everyone. We need to define violence, and we need to make it very clear what it is that we still need to do to realize this intention and this goal that we want to achieve. So this definitely is, among other things, one step forward in the fight against violence. I have already said that we support this intention, but given in mind everything that happened on October 10th on the Belgrade streets, I think that in the perspective, when it comes to the 2011 concrete, we need to think about another very important step, which represents a very important segment in the realization of this goal that we want to achieve. It is clear, however, that today the Ministry of Interior is one of the most organized parts of the state. I want to say that on October 10th, the only victims of all events on the Belgrade streets were members of the interior ministry. The members of the MUP, or police, do not participate in the adoption of laws, the Constitution, making and making political decisions. The primary task of the MEP and police is to ensure and ensure public order and peace, and we believe that they did so on October 10th in a professional and very effective way. We believe that, and today, it was said, that it was finally time to consider and speak about the material position and the equipment of members of the Ministry of the Interior, or the police. We believe that saving at the state level should be a priority, that it is necessary to rationalise within each ministry, but there are ministries where you cannot save. In particular, when it comes to the MUP, you can save on a material part, i.e. employees’ salaries, or members of the MUP. Those salaries are minor and that would be extremely disastrous. The other kind of savings you can make on the equipment, which is also very bad. One piece of information suggests that in 2002, the Ministry of Interior made 56% of the total wage budgets and the rest of the equipment. This year, the salary stands out 81%, and about 20% stands out for equipment. I see that there is a consensus of most political parties within the Republic's parliament that it is finally time to talk about it and take a decisive step towards repairing the material position and the equipment of members of the MUP. Because we're going to have quality laws, we're going to have, as someone said, rigid and rigorous laws, but they won't have anyone to do the first part of the story professionally if we don't talk about this on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45433	Seven minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word. After him is the Messenger of the people, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The public, as well as the citizens of Serbia, and we are all here these days in discussions, have said a lot about what happened in Serbia. It is certain that we did not expect such a rapid reaction, that the fire is practically extinguished, and that the causes that led to certain behavior are not prevented in any form of prevention. I therefore feel that this amendment to the Code will not work out. Madam Minister, I think there's been enough time in the past year, when we've had amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure; and then there's a lot of events that could have led to this kind of change, and maybe it shouldn't have waited for the conflict to escalate so much to bring something like this. I'm not saying that to justify this adoption, but I think that when something is to be achieved and the law needs to be changed, it needs to be done in a calmer atmosphere, because all of us are meant to see any changes in the law, especially in such serious laws, in a more peaceful atmosphere welcome. This isn't just about this crime they're going to be prosecuted for. There are a number of crimes here that will cover something like this, so I think those who prepare the laws should have that in mind and it could have been passed much earlier. Is this law being introduced into a dictatorship or some kind of repressive measure? If it's a dictatorship, time will tell. Are repressive measures – they are, surely. Madam Minister, you yourself know that our prisons are crowded, that in Serbia between 11,000 and 12,000 people endure sentences and that the application of one of these laws will certainly increase that number. The first question is, do we have that capacity in the state? I'll tell you something about this occasion, since there are representatives of the Ministry of the Interior. For criminal penalties, which we have also made much more severe by amending the Code, people are mass-produced in support of penalties because they don't have the money to pay. The ranks are in the MUPs. So the fines of five and ten thousand people want to replace, to simply spend five, ten or twenty days in prison, because they have nothing to pay the fines, which are so high for our terms and our receipts. It often happens that punishment for a crime is much greater than a man receives, or does not receive at all, during the month. When you look at all this, you'll find it will be extremely difficult to enforce this law. I'm sure the ruling majority will vote. The expansion of the detention ring opens up the possibility of them being prosecuted and that the detainees can then sue the state and ask for compensation. Have you thought about it? This is a time to point out one thing that is very unprincipled – often in court proceedings, people are in custody for five, ten, and more months and ultimately it is a liberating verdict. I will also tell you that in the proceedings for the compensation of immaterial damages that such people have, first-degree courts judge a million and a half, for example, in ten months two million; the higher court even raises it, and then in the third-degree they say – that's a lot, that's expensive, and then judgments seven hundred or eight hundred thousand dinars. Is that appropriate? Is there a need to seek the responsibility of someone who has conducted such actions and whose responsibility, after all, is when in such actions someone who has been deprived of liberty for ten months in compensation gets some miserable money, for which only drugs can be bought most often because during a period of time spent in prison has become ill, etc.? Of course, when they drain legal resources in this country, these people usually address international courts, and who knows what's going to happen when one day all of this gets paid. Madam Minister, and in the short process so far, there was a possibility... So this is about increasing the length of detention from eight to thirty days in the conduct of the investigation. Within the eight-day deadline provided for so far, the public prosecutor was obliged to file an indictment that could require an extension of the 30-day detention period. What's the big change here, except it's moving from eight to 30 days? So, if the court is up-to-date, if it's an up-to-date investigative judge, if the courts work fast, the prosecutor is here to raise the indictment proposal in a shortened procedure and, if there is a need, and then extend the detention until 30 days. The reasons are probably political nature, as some of my predecessors here have said, that many structures in society are intimidated, that some young people, who at some point may show their justifiable anger and dissatisfaction... Of course, I don't want to amnest anyone who commits a crime, it's not even on my mind, but it's devastating for our country to call all the people on the street in public information (we know what number of people arrested during these events) simply call them hooligans. We had a chance to see events in France yesterday, where on various national and other TV caryons there were: "high school students were in protests". There is a big difference between the word "medium" (and our children from 15 or 16 years of age are probably high school students) and the words "hooligans". It never occurred to the French to call such children hooligans. We've seen the consequences of some completely harmless change in the law, which is certainly the same as in France, so he's not exactly harmless to the French, but he's in a country far ahead of us, where receiving bigger ones, he's inciting so much anger that high school kids went out on the streets. We know the epilogue of that - hundreds of burning cars in France, but no one called those kids hooligans. Once again, I don't want anyone who committed a crime and exaggerated in my behavior to amnesty, but also the state and officials have to adapt the dictionary, not to generalize things. You don't need all the kids who are protesting and rebelling so casually call each other by the same name, because, after all, they're not all arrested in those riots. I want to point out that one of the solutions is certainly better at the work of courts, investigative judges and prosecutors, because with this, at 30 days, we're going to help the prosecutors a lot, which may be a little more comfortable in raising the indictment. Madam Minister, we are witnessing these days the great dissatisfaction of administrative workers working in the judicial authorities. Salaries are miserable, and that's true. Salaries have been miserable for years. We are also witnessing that some educations are being conducted these days, some first degree judges' seminars; they are going to some seminars, minors, to have judges of the Court of Appeals point out how they should be tried. As always, I'll give you a good suggestion. Think about him. There are people among the jurors who are certainly honorable and honest, and they have been in these structures for years; they have been recruited (the fact is little more) than those of the mup's servants. Think about whether there should be an even greater number of young, graduate lawyers, young people who don't work, for the simple reason why these kids can't get a job most often, not everyone can go to law school, there's a lot of competition. If two jurors are in the first degree court, or in the second degree, one should necessarily be from the ranks of graduate lawyers. That's where the trade is taught, that's where the real staff is recruited, and it's certain that those kids who form families, who are on their way, who have kids, who don't work anywhere... Surely, the apprehension received by jurors will at the very first moment be satisfactory for these young jurors, or graduate lawyers. At the same time, you will have an extremely good thing – they will learn in the right place how to be good judges someday. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45435	The time available to the New Serbia parliamentary group has been used. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word, followed by the Messenger of Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45436	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a law that is multiplely disputed and really is not difficult to attack on many sides, since the very reasons we heard today and those planned effects on the fight against violence in Serbia cannot be expected much. I'm going to list a number of key issues that suggest that this law actually came as the only result of what has been announced for days, and that's the deal with violence. In fact, this law will in no way contribute to such a struggle and reckoning with what is happening on the streets, and certainly testifys that the government has failed in any way to find a better solution. First, we will start with the way the government works, the attitudes to events and phenomena, and how it reacts when it comes to the bill being proposed. We have a situation that this government does not actually rule, that it does not lead, not predict events, but react to events. Instead of the basic text of the law actuating things, predicts in which direction certain social processes will go and therefore norm them, we get from this government a series of laws that change what the government originally established as its policy. The government, in fact, reacts to events instead of preventing them. One such law is this one today, as was the law on amending the Information Act and as was the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The government simply failed in any way to predict how social processes would take place and so today we are facing a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was in the National Assembly last year. I believe that citizens are more afraid than that absence of any strategy, policy or any plan of government than anything else. What's the other problem with this law is the atmosphere created by justice. We're passing the law, and we're seeing cases that you won't apply it. Who guarantees that judges will apply these amended legal standards? Gentlemen, this whole amendment to the law you have come up with on one legal standard, and that legal standard is – if the crime is committed under particularly difficult circumstances. That legal standard is appreciated by the judge, not by the Justice Department or by the prosecutor. You are now in this atmosphere that you are creating pressure on the judiciary, that this legal standard must be interpreted as fulfilling the conditions set out in point 5 cumulatively), i.e. These five years. That's a big problem. Where's the independence and freedom of jurisprudence? Why must the court and the judges thus interpret any crime committed that is subject to this point 5)? Now we come up with a key problem and key issues relating to the amendment of this law. First, detention is an extraordinary measure. Gentlemen, if you wanted to run a policy in the field of fighting violence in stadiums, the place of intervention is the Criminal Code and the criminal acts that are defined and processed there, not the CAP. The Code of Criminal Procedure is a procedural law, which is applied, as it is said, to all and all crimes covered by these provisions. Change the Penal Code. Raise the fines there. Teach the judges to apply the Penal Code differently. You here by modifying one procedural rule, and in a section relating to the security of the defendant in the process, you want to prevent violence on the streets. That's amazing. It is absolutely impossible to imagine such intervention in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Another thing, if this was an empty paper... If you wanted to, you could have dealt with yourself much earlier, as my colleague Milica Radovic said, and now and in the future, that you applied the laws. At the end of the line, if you had applied this provision of the CAP, well, based on these six points, each of them could be held in custody, regardless of the threatened sentence. Are those faces maybe faces that want to avoid detention or trial by running away? In these situations that we've had so far, are these persons where there are particular circumstances that indicate they're going to commit a crime again? It's probably a lot of these people. Could you say, could the judges have determined the measure of detention? They could have. No, you're simply resorting to something that actually just justifys your inability to find more adequate and more concrete measures to combat what's going on right now. That's the problem. You've had to do something spotless and urgent in this period since these events happened, then come on, we'll drop the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. How does that sound in public? The Code of Criminal Procedure is being changed. In fact, a norm is changing that, in terms of what you want to achieve, will have no effect. Therefore, the only way was, in addition to all other social and social measures, to intervene in the Criminal Code, to potentially tighten the fines, although you have made the law repressive. That's what we were talking about last year, that the whole policy of that bill has become a threat policy. Besides, I don't agree with you that what you've stated here has a preventive measure. How can detention and especially the application of a legal standard have a preventive measure? I respect you, but I don't think you wrote this, that this isn't your idea. I just can't believe that one lawyer can give such an explanation that detention can be a preventive measure. So, you don't react to events, you change the laws as events catch up, you don't run the country. On the other hand, you pressure the judiciary to apply this law, you can clearly see that. We bring it in to apply. It must be prevented by any judge, in any case, that we mark as violence, to apply this law. On the other hand, absolutely, a law like this, with a change of provisions relating to the length and conditions of detention, can't be a way to fight this. This certainly does not deserve any attention, and it would be better to withdraw it, as it is in no way something that will contribute to the fight against violence in Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45437	Eight minutes has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Bosko Ristic has the word, and after him, the MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45438	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister and the others invited to our session, I would like to say that the proposal to amend the CAP is not a repressive measure, it is primarily a comprehensive measure. Escalation of violence on the streets of Serbia and exports of this violence to other countries shows the government's commitment to react to eradicate the causes of these phenomena and to show that it wants to protect human rights. I do not agree that no one is stronger than the state and that for this reason it is necessary to react in terms of repressive measures and the processing of such behaviour, but I believe that human rights are above all violence and every need for destruction. The state is here to protect human rights. The citizen, with his rights, is above the state. The state is an instrument, a state is a way of reacting against these destructive phenomena that are destroying society in its foundations. We've heard different attitudes about this law here today. Many have used this draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure for political debate. Many have used alleged criticism of these changes in the CAP to give political support to those who commit violence. We're dealing with different values here, different value systems. Some MPs, unfortunately, have tried to explain the reasons and needs of some individuals to commit violence, which is absolutely unacceptable. It's not a political method of fighting and it's not politically acceptable. Each MP, as the holder of public authority and public functions, is obliged to perform this function responsibly, on behalf of those citizens who, with their votes and support, enabled him to come to this House of Representatives. I am not sure that Serbian citizens want MPs to represent them in such a way as to encourage others to commit violence or to justify someone's need to deal with violence. Different analyses have been carried out here, as there has been violence, whether it has come from a cheerleading group that is making violence unsatisfactory with its status or whether it is an organised attack on democratic values and on the foundations of a democratic society. Serbia, as a developed democratic society that seeks to master the values on which the EU is based, wants to protect each individual and its rights so that it can enjoy a peaceful and safe life, that his family can move safely across the streets across Serbia. On October 10th, this did not happen, because there is a lack of tolerance, because some are willing to react by violence to other people's diversity and to others' right to express their diversity. No one here wanted to force other citizens, or most of them, to be different from how they feel, but they also have the right to publicly express that they feel different from most. It is their constitutional right and the democratic right of every citizen, including the majority, to protect the minority's right to show the right to vary. To return to the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendments are proposed only in the direction that under the same conditions it is possible to extend the length of detention in a shortened procedure from the current eight to the scheduled 30 days. It's the wrong idea that it's a mandatory detention. The wrong idea is that detention will always take 30 days, because the norm itself has a restriction that detention will take as long as it takes. It is possible to keep a certain person in custody for up to 30 days in order to collect evidence, but that does not mean that detention will always take 30 days. Also, it is not allowed to put pressure on the work of courts. Here we hear comments about court decisions, which is really inadmissible. Three branches of government are independent, special, divided. There are authorities that guarantee and provide independence of the judicial authority, so that law enforcement authorities and judicial authorities are independent of the application of the law, are linked only to the facts and the law that is valid and which is, in particular, applicable. As far as the second amendment is concerned, which is that in particularly difficult cases of committing crimes, detention will be determined for those crimes where the sentence is prescribed for more than five years of imprisonment, unlike the current regulation where it was intended only for crimes for which the sentence has been threatened for more than ten years, it is shown to be absolutely complete. The state had to react quickly, vigorously and responsibly to the phenomena of applying violence on the streets, assaulting property and attempting to destroy the system of values and the system of institutions that these values should protect in the Constitution and the law guaranteed and prescribed way. The state must provide instruments, within the meaning of the law, for the judiciary to play its role, social and public role, in a way that is comprehensive and socially justified. In addition, all other segments of society, all other institutions should do their job in accordance with the powers and work of their prescribed activity. The education system should educate children, students and students that the right to diversity is protected by the Constitution and that each citizen should adopt this right to diversity and the right to express his own attitude as something that is a civilization achievement. Human rights are derived from natural rights, and natural law is so called for the reason it is created by birth itself. It's born itself. Individuals, citizens are equal by that human and natural right, by no means different. The fact that other colors are skin, different creeds, or having different ideas and beliefs does not mean that some are different from most simply because they do not have enough number of supporters to mate most in an adequate way. That's why society is there to provide conditions and mechanisms and that most protect the rights of the minority always and in every place, without the rest. I hope this debate on this law has shown our political differences. And it has been shown that those who declare themselves to be worthy of the values on which the European Union is founded show here in a concrete situation that they are not ready to face anomalies in the social behaviour of individuals, organised groups and groups that are encouraged by political or economic centres of power, against constitutional or illegal objectives. I hope that an effective investigation will show who stands behind these groups who want to reduce their responsibility to call dissatisfied social groups who have exaggerated in their showing support to clubs or groups of individuals who have been seduced and are mistaken about the consequences of their own destructive and violent behaviour. I don't think this minimalization of the consequences leads to anything. I believe that we must face the causes and consequences, and those who are the bearers of these criminal acts must face trial, be processed in accordance with the law and be given adequate penalties. I don't call on courts to impose maximum and maximum penalties. The punishment must be individual. Those who have contributed most to this should respond, with the most severe punishments. For the first time, those who have been involved in this violent behavior will surely have the opportunity to seek some expedient circumstances in their own behavior. We're not here to judge. The courts are independent in the trial, and we need to learn that the public should point to social phenomena, anomalies, and that the prosecution authorities should reveal it, prosecute the perpetrators, and that courts make decisions in accordance with the law, protecting the Constitution of guaranteed rights of other citizens. I expect the Assembly to adopt these amendments, but I must say that on the Committee on Justice we have also considered the possibility to adopt amendments or to specify these provisions, which are in principle good; their aim is justified and we support this objective. Whether or not we will focus on certain criminal acts that are possible to determine detention under the prescribed conditions, which are related to the elements of violence, whether these are sexual acts or similar actions, it remains to be seen, and the content of the amendments that have been submitted, but also the Committee can make its own amendment up to a certain point. We will illustrate some of the views and views of the Justice Minister, who has always been for co-operation. We believe that it will, in a comprehensive manner, consider our proposals and that we will come together to a solution that will not constitute a repressive measure, detention as punishment or a criminal measure, but rather a measure that will be a deterrent measure, because those who will be potential perpetrators of such crimes will do so with the knowledge that they can sit in custody. No one has the right to say that the provision of detention for a certain way is a repressive measure and that it is anti-civilisation or contrary to EU standards. I think that the flat-rate comparison of the legal system is irresponsible and that it does not lead to a final, correct and comprehensive goal that is pursued by society as a whole. Compared to some legal solutions in EU countries, not to determine detention for crimes where a sentence under ten years in prison is threatened, it is primarily incorrect. Penalty systems are completely different. There, for minor acts, much more severe penalties have been threatened, which are automatically written off by 30% in the enforcement process. These are different systems than Serbia's traditional criminal justice system, and these two legal situations are incomparable. I therefore support the proposal from the Ministry of Justice and the Parliament Club DS and the ZES will support this proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, because we believe that the amendments are comprehensive, adequate and timely. Never has the state reacted in a timely manner like this in this situation. That's why I want to give every praise to the Minister of Justice, who quickly, effectively and in the right way, with a measure, reacted in a concrete situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45439	Twelve minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milica Radovic. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or not? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45440	I believe he's a injured member of 107. First of all, I have to tell you, Mr. Ristic, that you don't even know what you're talking about. We're here talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure, and you're explaining some things to us about Criminal Law. That's totally amazing. Criminal law is one branch, but you need to know at all times what you're talking about. You said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45441	People's MPs, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure forbid you to address the Members of the People directly. I remind you that the right to reason for the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to an objection the MP has that the chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure. I warn you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and not to abuse the right to get word over the line and as soon as you ask for it by believing that you have the right to violate the Rules of Procedure. You don't. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45442	Infringement of Rule 27, which you have just committed by mistaking the session and interpreting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you are obliged to respect in relation to Article 27 of this Rules of Procedure. Your management of the procedure in parliament, I speak in general, and the rights that article 27 gives you cannot represent fundamentally self-will. You cannot arbitraryly determine someone's right, whether or not he has it, even when the provision gives you that kind of discretionary right. If someone's exposure is mentioned through the direct paraphrasing of what the predecessor was saying, in a contentious sense he should have the right to respond, but since your discretionary right to judge whether or not he has a right, then that discretion law must be applied consistently. In that it is a violation of article 27 on your part, because how and how would the polemics of substance and matter develop? I think it is the obligation of every chairman to monitor the presentations of the MPs and therefore to realistically judge whether there is a place to respond to what has been said or not here. There were no insults here, or mentioning names in a negative context, any of them, but there were reflections in relation to the contents of what they're talking about, the contents of what's on the agenda. If that's not the basis for the reaction, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45443	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. You have misused the right to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in an explanation that an injured member of the 27th is talking about the injury being made by the chairman's decision not to allow a replica because he believes that the reason for the replica is not there. The right to replica is the President's discretionary decision. Please do not throw away and please read the entire article 103 and Article 107 when you want to speak about the right to take care of the procedure together with the chairman. Article 103(1): "The MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, immediately after the infringement has been committed. “ Paragraph 2: “The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. “ Paragraph 3: “The President of the National Assembly gives the word to the people’s messenger who points to a violation of the attitude of the 1st member... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Please don't throw it away. A serious injury has been committed to violating the rights of MPs. If you're entertained by a serious right to be treated like a party, I'm not entertained. Please listen carefully to the request of your fellow MP whether or not there has been an injury to article 27. Item 4: "The MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and shall explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. “ I don’t want to quote a member who implies the presidency’s obligation to impose criminal measures. Article 107, cited, paragraph 1: "The speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. “ The position of Article 107: “A session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the MP of the people to another MP, to use offensive expressions, nor to make facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. “ Both MPs who pointed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudić and MP Milica Radovic, misused their right under Article 103. I warn you not to do that. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45444	A violation of article 107, which you just committed. The way you qualified my exposure is very offensive, and I don't think it contributes, not to contribute, but to harm the dignity of this house, because the way you treat the MPs, especially me in this particular case and my colleague, is really exceeding everything. I won't talk much. I'll be done in 15 seconds. I have no reason to argue with you further, you will say that no injured Rules of Procedure, as you always do, but indeed, giving such lectures, which are extremely transparent, leads nothing. You quoted the violation of article 107, as if my reporting for word applied to it. No, not at all, it was about what you said, about your discretionary right. Discretional law, I repeat, ma'am... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45445	People's MP, the right to give replicas cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning under Article 103. National MP Milica Radovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45446	I don't know if I have the right to explain why I'm answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45447	You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45448	I want to explain why I'm answering. Do I have the right to do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45449	You can answer for two reasons: the first is that you have come to order in order of the Members of the People, and the second is what you want to talk about injury to the Rules of Procedure. It's not your turn to speak. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45450	Do you deny me the right to report on the basis of a replica, given that my words are completely... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45451	People's MPs, your right to the replica is not denied, but is not given to you because there is no basis. Please do not violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure and read the provisions of the Rules of Procedure; it states very clearly when or in what cases it may or may not be spoken of as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45452	I'm hoping about the matter, since I didn't look for it any other way now. Thank you for your recent sentence, which, of course, speaks a lot about your sense of implementation of democratic procedures in this House. The way you react talks first of all about how you experience the institutions of the system. But that's not what I'm worried about. I'm worried about what's on the agenda today, that's the point of the story. We today have in this proposal these two amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the legal and political dimension of this case. The legal dimension of this case is, Madam Minister, for the shame of the profession, and the political dimension is for the shame of both the state and the people. As far as this legal dimension is concerned, let's discuss it first, that's the essence of the story, I'll remind you, because this is what citizens are looking at, as a matter of fact, that circus, that's how they look at this, what you're actually changing. So, you in the Code of Criminal Procedure, whose purpose is to regulate criminal proceedings... So, when there's a suspicion that someone committed a crime he's being tried, it's for laymen's stories, and then it seems like some kind of procedure. That procedure is provided for by law. This law provides for a procedure indeed in countries to be elaborated to a minimum, for the simple reason that any criminal proceedings against the accused or the suspect of a crime entails fundamentally a threat to the human rights of those same persons, because they are all innocent until proven guilty in court. Even when proven guilty, their human rights are respected, according to the Constitution of this country and those legal standards that we want to adopt as a democratic state and part of the democratic world, their human rights are also respected as convicted persons, in that way and in the way that the state can do so. So here's the procedure. To be clear right away, one of the previous speakers is very nice, clearly pointed out, this is not about any repression, not about any preventive measure, this is about a cellular measure. The consistency is assessed by the promoter and the overallity is assessed by the majority who vote to make the proposal. It's up to me to show you that it's neither good nor celery. That member you're changing, that's Article 142, and there's a number of reasons for detention. When a person commits a crime, there are reasons why he can be detained before his conviction. Prison doesn't mean prison. Those who are sentenced to such punishment go to prison, and those whose presence must be ensured, first of all, for the conduct of a criminal procedure, and then to prevent other things, and in that sense, we can talk about some prevention: to prevent corruption, or to destroy the process of investigating material truth by that same person or person he knows, which would communicate if it were free; where there is a danger that this person escapes, where there is a danger of hiding; that there is no easy way to determine immediately his identity, that there is a basis for doubt or a reasonable suspicion that this person is the person we are looking for; that he is not responding neatly to the calls of the court, so that the person does not intend to cooperate in criminal proceedings etc. Or, if it were an obvious potential returnee, if it were someone who committed crimes, was convicted of them, and it was a criminal offence that was intended to be punished for five years or more, then it was well-founded to suspect that it would not be good for that person to defend himself from freedom for a crime that was put back on his burden. You've got another possibility that our CAP predicts. Personally, I don't agree with that possibility at all. I don't even agree with the current provision of the CAP, and you've just found it to change, so make it more rigorous. It is a provision that says detention can also be designated for a crime that is put on the line, if the sentence of prison for the crime is prescribed for over ten years. You're down to five. What's the point? This is the assumption that it would still be worth putting a criminal offence against those who can be punished for ten years or more in custody, regardless of all these other circumstances that I have mentioned for a moment, which is why the detention is determined. None of these detention measures, none of these reasons, listed by different points, are cumulative, each of them is alternative, which doesn't mean that they can't all happen together. So it can happen that someone is prone to escape while at the same time being prosecuted for a crime for which a ten-year sentence can be imposed and that at the same time it can affect witnesses or hide the subject of a crime, etc. That's the essence of detention. What did you want with this? Why are you reducing from ten to five? You can't explain that to yourself. The judge is free to determine in any case why in a particular situation he should determine detention, yes or no. In translation, and for a criminal offence for which a prison sentence has been threatened for a maximum of two years it is possible to determine detention. What does five have to do with two years from now, if some of the other conditions set out in point 1), (2), (6), etc. are met? What do you need in particular to change this point 5 and reduce that period from ten to five? That's absolutely pointless. It only makes one sense, not legal, but political. Now we're going to that other story -- it makes political sense, because you want to send this particular political message. Legally, it doesn't make any sense. That's what we've proven. There's no special functionality here, but it has a political message. It is sent to two sides: it is sent directly to the judiciary, judges who will be judges in the case, investigative judges and judges in the council or judges of individuals, and then sent to the public. In order to intimidate the public, as well as the judges, to understand that the executive power in the state and the legislation that the executive authority supports have certain intentions, and that according to these intentions and judges have to be treated. That's the celery this was talking about, and that's the idea. In the short process, the increase in maximum detention from eight to thirty days is a special scandal. It is a shortened procedure and it is a period before the indictment of the indictment, the indictment. That period is at stake. The shortened procedure is simple because of the simplicity of criminal acts, and that is why it is shortened, because there is no god knows what to investigate. You're saying now that for raising the indictment proposal, it's a de facto deadline, someone can be detained by a reduced procedure of up to 30 days, it's maximum. Well, of course it's just the maximum, of course it can be shorter. If that's not the problem, then why don't we figure out a maximum of four years, so maybe a shorter one day? The point of the restriction is precisely to respect the constitutional norm and to respect the general norms of the Criminal Code itself, that detention is an exceptional measure. Well, what are you going to do with your faces for 30 days in custody? Now look at the absurd, the unseen absurd. As a rule, fines or conditional sentences shall be imposed for acts tried in a reduced procedure. Now you're going to get into a situation where someone spends 30 days, or 25, 28, anyway, in custody, and then sentence him to a six-month sentence. That's ridiculous. Are you aware of what you wrote here? Then why is there this institute? You're making fun of him. Let's go now - political reasons. What are you doing all this for? So, from all the speeches of the supporters of this bill, it was clear that you were only doing this to consistently implement your starting policy, these latest measures starting on October 10th. On October 10th, the government held a rally in Belgrade, which she knew in advance, based on a service report... I've asked one question, you haven't answered it yet, and it would be good on Tuesdays and Thursdays to come in the morning, to hear those questions and answer what you're asked. So, you've received an assessment, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice have received an assessment of the security of a particular set. Despite the negative assessment, you insisted as a government that a group of people hold an appointment, you set up six thousand police officers, and there were political excesses. Yeah, it's up to the political excessors. If it were just an ordinary group of hooligans and they just cared about going wild around town, why would they choose that date, could any one of them, which they didn't do this afternoon? We all know everything, we all know what it's about. You provoke violence, you stage events. The question is what happened in Genoa and for what purpose, it will soon reveal the future. You're doing this to bring in the regulations you're making today, to sow fear and to make arrest a punishment, in a shortened procedure, which will most often be applied against the protesters, when the next day someone really demonstrates against your regime. That's what you're preparing today and that's what you have to say today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45453	Ten minutes and thirty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP Nenad Konstantinovic, followed by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45454	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have witnessed recently unkind events both in the streets of Belgrade and in the stadium in Genoa, which have shown Serbia as a country where violence is being conducted, and our citizens as extremists, violents, hooligans who attack those who think differently from them, who burn down other people's national flags, who shoot at police and citizens, who destroy everything in front of them and destroy the property of the city of Belgrade and our fellow citizens. I therefore believe that as representatives of the legislative authority and as representatives of Serbian citizens, we must do everything in our power to deal with violence, extremism, discrimination and protect the human and minority rights of each individual citizen, and those who are promoters of violence, hatred and intolerance are severely punished. I would like to commend the members of the police and the prosecution who have sent an unambiguous message in recent days that all the wrongdoers involved in the recent events will be severely punished. I am sure that Serbia also has the strength and capacity to defend the acquired freedoms and rights of every individual citizen in the country, and I am saying that on behalf of the Democratic Party to which I belong and on behalf of civil Serbia, which I believe is ready to stand in defense of the freedom that we have achieved together on October 5th. There has been a lot of talk here about how certain associations should be banned or prevented from expressing their opinions. I must remind you that freedom of thought, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of peace of assembly of civil fluids, guaranteed by the European Charter for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedom and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Every citizen in this country has the right to express his beliefs and opinions whenever he wants and wherever he wants and no one has the right to prohibit another from doing so, to prevent him, let alone attack and beat him in the streets of Belgrade. Every citizen of our country has the right to vary, and we must not allow anyone to be threatened by those who, under the pretext of patriotism (I think, are just excuses, and more passwords of nationalism and traditionalism) to carry out ideological intolerance and violence against all those who think differently from their members and their followers. That's how they bring us back to the past, in a time of oneness. For the past week, the entire public can testify, based on the actions of individuals and groups in Serbia, the Constitution and the law are being violated. The state's answer must be severe. With criminals, with hooligans, thugs, extremists there must be no compromise and there must be no perks for them. The participants of these events are no young people who are unemployed, are neither fans nor right-handed, but are just common criminals and we have to separate them from groups of fans. Fans are the ones who cheer for their clubs, not those who sell drugs and other people and police in Serbia's stadiums and streets. You don't go to jail for cheerleading, you go to jail for crime. We're not fighting fans, we're fighting criminals and criminals who should be responsible for their actions. That is why we ask the authorities to fully enforce the laws that this congregation has passed and that those who have committed crimes are severely punished. At the same time, we must take care of the protection of human rights and freedoms and not lead to excessive repression. There's been a lot of talk here about repression. The repression would have been if the ministry had proposed a tightening of criminal policy. There has been no proposal to tighten the criminal policy and no proposal to amend the Criminal Code and to increase the penalty for certain crimes from five to eight years to ten and more, but to propose a minimum legislative change, in the procedural legislation, which aims exclusively to enable the prosecution and the court in a pre-criminal, prior procedure to collect all evidence and that the indictment act be brought up on the basis of relevant evidence and that it never happens to us again, and that so often in practice, those who have committed criminal acts come out of prison, but because of lack of evidence cannot be found to be legally convicted. The amendment of the law relating to the extension of the maximum length of detention in a reduced procedure, from eight days to 30 days, is intended only to allow for longer detention of persons who otherwise fulfil the grounds for detention (that is to say, those against whom an eight-day detention would normally be designated) to be held for a maximum period of 30 days. This allows reasonable time to prepare the indictment and collect evidence. I think this provision is absolutely justified, especially when it comes to the fact that in specific cases it is criminal acts with an element of violence. We know that violence is becoming less and less individual, and more and more in the organized group and in the prosecution is to prove the belongings of the group against which the investigation is being conducted. The investigation must be conducted against a larger number of people, as it is groups that have thirty, forty members and against them that must be investigated. Of course, this measure is serious and will have an impact on all the participants in the criminal proceedings, and therefore we advocate that it is restrictively determined only for those crimes that have elements of violence. We'll discuss this tomorrow at the Justice Committee; I believe we'll bring amendments in that direction. For finale, we ask the competent state authorities, I repeat, full application of the law. We ask them to determine whether acts of violence in the streets of Belgrade and stadiums are politically motivated, whether they are helped, organised by organised crime and monopolies, and that after such an investigation, the public is told who they are behind the invasion of violence and hatred in the streets of Belgrade and sports stadiums. I also hope that the Constitutional Court will soon decide on proposals to ban the work of the "National Machine", "The Face", "SNP 1389" and other extreme groups that form and call for violence and hatred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45455	Eight minutes and fifteen seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been given by MP Zeljko Tomic, and after that, the National MP Maja Lausevic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is five minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45456	The esteemed chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected Minister Malovic, is obviously in need of a change in the law. You've been under a lot of pressure, and the changes in the CAP are getting more and more frequent. In view of the urgency of adopting this amendment as a basis for tightening detention, it is said that, as you said, it is necessary to avoid the adverse consequences of the country's security, the work of state authorities and the exercise of citizens' rights, which could arise if this law is not adopted by an emergency procedure. I ask you to explain to me what this means – the adverse consequences for the safety of the country. At the last session of the Committee on Security of MPs of the ruling coalition, or Democratic Party, they said the constitutional order of the Serbian state was compromised after the October 10th event, and at the same session, BIA director Sasa Vukadinovic said there was no talk on the threat of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask all of you to agree whether the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia is at risk or not, the public of Serbia has the right to know. What you're doing today is solving a problem, if you're even solving it, you think you're solving it, over your knee. We ask, more speakers have already mentioned and asked you – from which European countries have you taken over these solutions? Is this a member state of the EU? There isn't. Your mouths are full of Europe, you bring these changes to the law, and misery is all around us. Why do you need a tightening of the detention grounds? Didn't your former chairman of the District Committee, Mr. Goran Knezevic, hold so much debt in custody that it turned into a fine? He is detained, we will remind ourselves, openly to speak, by order of Democratic Party President Boris Tadic at the meeting of the main committee, and he was once his favorite mayor. Only recently did the MP and president of the Democratic Party's political council Dragoljub Micunovic say in a television show that Knezevic was "loaded," I quote: loaded. Look out, what are you doing, gentlemen? Those archaeologists or anarchists, as they are already called, have been held in custody for a long time because they have caused damage to the embassies of Greece, until there was a different political will, and it was expressed both by Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. First you baptize it as a violation, then you baptize it as international terrorism. You haven't even agreed on what you're going to do. In the end, the people with the little delay were freed and no one had anything to do with it. But there is still a great deal of confusion in the judiciary, Mrs. Malovic. Furthermore, when we talk about fans, especially the application of the Law on the Prevention of Violence at Sports Events, Mrs Malovic, there are a number of examples. How many torches have been lit since you've been in power, say? The pyrotechnic means should not be used in stadiums, it decidates in law. Who's being punished for that? Nobody. The law even provides for penalties for players who can use their behavior to produce violence in the stands. We all remember that basketball players "Partizana" and "Hemofarma" were fighting to the blood. Are any of them processed by applying the Law on Preventing Violence at Sports? Nobody. That's what people watch, their sports stars do it. When young people and children look at them, what can they do to encourage them? Where's the prevention? You advocate freedom of speech (of course, every democratic society stands for it), expressions, movements and, as you said, those who think and act differently must be protected and allowed to do so. Mr. Ristic, Mr. Konstantinovic and the Serbian Government ministers, here's a chance: when this law comes into force, go ahead and show us in person, if you are rooting for "Red Star" put a red and white mark on you and come among the "Partizana" fans. You will guarantee that absolute freedom in Serbia exists. It doesn't exist in either England or Italy or Germany. In Germany, moreover, by new, you have to know German to live in that country. There's no multiculturalism, there's less and less of it, and you're pushing... What's this about? Let's stop. At all stadiums in Europe, fans are known to divide into different sectors. The same thing was supposed to happen on the tenth. According to us, he shouldn't have let a gay parade take place. If you wanted to stop the incidents... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45457	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. The word has a folk MP, Maja Lausevic, and after that, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45458	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the reasons for the adoption of the law, the legislator decidedly states that in the practice of courts in determining the measures to ensure the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, problems related to the determination of the detention measure have been identified when the presence of the accused cannot be determined by applying other measures. Namely, the applicable legal solution referred to in Article 149 paragraph 1 point 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure foresees that detention can be determined against persons suspected of committing a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison has been prescribed for over ten years and if this is justified because of the particularly difficult circumstances of the offence. In view of the fact that a number of criminal offences in which there are particularly difficult circumstances or particularly difficult circumstances under which a criminal offence has been committed is less than ten years in prison, and the presence of the accused cannot be provided otherwise in criminal proceedings, it is necessary to amend the abovementioned provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to provide for the possibility of determining detention and other criminal offences for which detention is not possible under the applicable provisions of the Code. In an explanation of individual solutions, the legislator states that Article 1 amend Article 142 paragraph 1 point 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the so-called legal basis for determining the measure of detention, is introduced, by providing that detention can also be determined for a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison is intended for more than five years, provided that this is justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of committing a criminal offence. Article 2 The proposal refers to the length of detention in the shortened procedure and provides for the amendment of Article 436(2). The Code of Criminal Procedure by extending the maximum length of detention from eight to thirty days in criminal proceedings. In this way, the provision of Article 436(2) is brought into line with the proposed amendments set out in Article 1 of the Law, since the latest amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure of September 2009 extended the procedure to criminal offences for which the sentence of prison was prescribed for up to five years. Democratic Party MPs in voting day will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45459	It was used two minutes and forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Jadranka Jovisic. To inform the MPs that, by applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which determine the order of the Members of the People, which have been declared for the word and application of Article 27, the MPs of the Parliament groups who have not said whether or not they have been called for or not, so that an MP from one parliamentary group has been appointed, and from another parliamentary group, regardless of whether or not they will be in favour. I apologize to Ambassador Nebojsa Rangelovic for not giving that notice in time, but thank you for coming to your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45460	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us who knows what kind of amendment and addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Is the approach to amendments and additions to this code controversial? I'd say he didn't. No, because in society we have such phenomena that the state has to react to. Those phenomena have taken hold. The whole society is threatened and something must be done accordingly. What's the matter? The issue is that the state is responding again in this way and that this approach is an unfinished state procedure. We in the Liberal Democratic Party appreciate the Ministry of Justice's efforts and such a reaction, but we must criticise the inconsistencies and inconsistencies. The state certainly has to react to these phenomena, but the state has to take care of it and not get involved in the own sand of inconsistencies of all amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure that I was just talking about. Of course, it should be possible for the appearances we have been talking about in parliament all day today to be an adequate response. We understand why it is possible to extend detention from eight days to thirty days and why the word “ten” is replaced by the word “five” (it refers to years of threatened punishment), but we had to react to the amendments because the time of the 19th century, when the rule “evil seems to be evil defending itself, there is no crime.” Our amendments are now aimed at protecting human rights and preventing any possible abuses, regardless of the need for a decisive state reaction. That's why I'm interested in whether our amendments will be accepted. I'd like to get an answer from the Ministry's representative. I would also appeal to all bodies that will comply with the provisions that will bring amendments and additions to this code to take account of the certain nature of the execution of the threatened sentence. It is not enough just to prescribe something and to determine that it should be applied, it is necessary to apply it. So many times we had a problem, many wrongdoers acted the way they acted, since there was no certainty of saying and executing a threatened sentence. If future perpetrators count on that fact, then their behavior will be quite different. We haven't had that case before. It is in the state to ensure that threatened penalties are imposed and then executed. That's what we insist on. Of course, I'd like to add a few more sentences. All that we've been talking about now, and as far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, I think it's the tip of the iceberg, because what Serbian society is in general, that's the picture we had in parliament today. We have listened to shameful speeches, insults, and met with the fact that we are looking for a certainty of sentence and execution, but we do not have the certainty of a policy that will make it possible. That's why we've come to see that there is a divided Serbia, counting and building on it its own policy. We've had demagogue tiaras where hooligans are called children, where moral sermons were held by people who are the image of political inconsistency, I'd say political negligence. So I would ask all my colleagues and colleagues to listen carefully to what the MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party have said, perhaps even to read our texts in the paper. Look at today's "Politics", page 14, and you will have the opportunity to see that there is a different Serbia, that it can be written and spoken tolerateably and that the language of primitiveism is not suitable for this home. This isn't a moral sermon. This is the cry of a minority part of society in crisis, and this is an appeal to all of us not to let our society go into the sun. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45461	Six minutes and twenty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Jovisic, followed by a national MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45462	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I must begin to express regret that we are forced to bring these changes under these circumstances. However, the events that took place since October 10th make us simply bound to amend this law. Many felt uncomfortable when Secretary of State Mr. Homen said that the state's response should be creepy. In my opinion, what was really creepy was what happened in Belgrade on October 10th; what was even scarier was what happened in Genoa, and I think that every child who saw those hooligans at the match against Italy would surely be traumatized for some time by what they saw. In contrast, the country's response should be clear. The amendments to the laws we are about to adopt are only one step on the road in our dealings with hooligans, not with young people. However, letters on paper are not enough. They have to live in practice. It is important that all laws that are passed to the end be applied. I'm afraid the events behind us have convinced us that the laws still don't apply to the end, and I have to give an example in that sense. When it comes to the law that prohibits violence at sports events, as a Member of the Committee on Sports and Youth, along with my colleagues, I talked a lot about the law, about how significant this law is, how important it is for all of us to apply it. However, when I was a fan in May (I have my favorite club) I saw that the law was not fully applied. On the stands across from me were torches, burning pyrotechnics, funds that were banned from the stadium. In this regard, as a member of the Democratic Party, a party that advocates full application of the law, a party that wants to be dealt with with with with all types of crime, including this, I urge the Ministry to determine where this chain of law is being broken, who is making the least of the effort, or who is preventing such laws that protect citizens from hooligans from being brought to an end. I believe that the changes we adopt will only bring good. I really want the members of the ministry not to give in, to remain firm and to deal with this kind of crime until the end. The Democratic Party MPs will certainly help them with that. Also, there have been words here today about how young people view these problems. Believe me, as a representative of young people in this House, that young people are very aware and have a clear view of the problem of violence in this society. Today, as members of the Youth Against Violence Coalition, together with public figures, we had a conference that symbolically took place in a Belgrade trolleybus vandalised by hooligans. They sent a message, not violence. Young people in this country will fight violence. Young people specifically at this conference today demanded that institutions respond adequately, apply the laws until the end, to create an action plan that would show that we have really learned important lessons from the tragic events behind us, from the murder of a French fan, from the destruction of Belgrade. I hope that some of my colleagues who have debated here today from these ruthless events have learned lessons for us and that in the voting day there will be more than 126 votes for, and not just because it is politically correct, but because it is primarily human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45463	It was used three minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, followed by MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45464	Dear colleagues, respected parents, I will talk about this topic exclusively as the mother of three adult children, who do not have the habit of going to stadiums, going to concerts, but to listen to music or watching sports events in their house, because they were fortunate and unhappy to live in Kosovo and Metohija, or Pristina, at the same time, where children should have waited from childhood when they returned from school because they could have had a lot of things happen to them, at the time of nationalism in Kosovo. My children are 1980, 1982 and 1983. Unfortunately, however, not all of us are waiting for children from school only grandfathers and grandparents in Kosovo and Metohija or parents to whom it has become an obligation, but it is a way of life in many, if not almost all the cities of Serbia, and in Novi Sad, where I live today. It's not just sports events and places where sports competitions are held; violence, in all possible and impossible places, has become our reality. I speak on behalf of all those parents who are waiting outside the school for the children not to finish, such as the increasingly frequent cases of those who end up in the ER if they dare not be part of the trend and part of what is today called modernity. Please, all of you, young and old, my peers and those who are about to give birth and have children, bear in mind that we should not have double arches when we raise children and when we guard our authority or our position. Do you promote on television, with the right, shows in which you say – in children you need to build confidence, non-violence over children, refer them to what is good, what is humane, what is Christian, not threaten and not train children by force? Why, in what is called social life and social organisations, are you trying to use coercion as an exclusive means of raising young generations? It's a question for all of us, it's not a question for this home where laws like this are proposed. Why do you overlook the fact that we created a society from which every normality has been expelled? You're not going to make me define myself either for a gay parade or for violence, because I want you to say that there is a normality in which it is the right of every individual to be different, but not to promote it. Do not convince me that promoting sex and sex is the same as a Christian wedding, because a Christian wedding is given to God, that it is promoted as the basic meaning of the existence of a human species, to create a being like itself. And those who have a different relationship with their survival, their last name, their ancestors, and have a different relationship with their descendants, have the right to do so, but they also want to adopt someone's children. Do not promote anything on the other side of violence in those who advocate traditional values, not only Serbian, but even traditional values. Don't make us plead between this, whether it's children and whether it's hooligans, because every crime is individual. Every punishment must befall the very one who commits a crime in any area of life. And, don't even attack everyone, or defend everything, because the basic meaning of philosophy is that every sentence that starts with "all" and "no one" is primarily a lie. Not everyone's good and no one can be guilty. My dear gentlemen, the window didn't break alone. The window never breaks alone, someone always breaks a window. As a society, we contributed to the window or mirror in which the image of Serbia was created about us, not by chance. How many times did I warn you on behalf of the Prosperity Group of the Serbian Progressive Parties that 60% of the unemployed (not only in the world, but also in our own) of young people, 18-25 years old? When they are not busy studying, which is expensive, when they don't have a job or finish school, they are in line, waiting, or getting some temporary engagement, in principle sociologically called "use and drop generation", where college educated people work for you by 18,000, by some economic engagement, where the only trend is to reduce the number of employees. You expect such a generation to have an awareness of something that means a distant future, or you implanted their consciousness – success at all costs and immediately. Does the government, which looks only at the next election, instill in them a proper definition of how to behave? I say no. But I don't justify a single act of violence, and for me, verbal violence, which we are often exposed to here, is an act of violence. How can this congregation promote legality in front of someone, if the Constitutional Court is flooded with demands for the assessment of the constitutionality of the laws that you bring here by the will of the majority? Well, that's kind of violence, too. It's just a question of when one kind of violence turns into another. From monopoly to corruption is one step. From verbal violence to physical violence is one step. From the words they call for a fight to the charge of violence is one step. Who determines that line? A nervous government that can't solve problems and whose success is measured only by employment. You can say whatever you want, the only success of the government is that you have employees who work, that you have parents who work, who have dignity and who can give their children something other than expressing violence in something called a group. Please, this is not a sociological study, this is a social life – from the economy and when you don't have a cause of violence of various kinds. Our job to contribute to some good and concrete moves in society is very responsible and cannot be aware of the extension of detention, it is not possible for you to characterise the violence that has "accepted international character". What, in principle, happened abroad to the local court, and took international character? Or, financed by international organisations. Please, if the Minister of Justice doesn't use our words carefully and measured, who will? If the assistant minister of justice says to us, "The answer will be a terrible one, what is a threat, but an answer and an even greater threat?" Careful use of words is a carefully prepared measure of government and state so that young people don't entertain you with something, not that the initiative leads them from one choice to another... Everyone has already understood the transparency of such a way of leading the government, from one hope to the other, which is perfected here to an inconceivable proportion, here, in a country where the authorities do not make up the largest number of votes, where two and two are not four, where numbers have a specific numerical value, a synergistic effect, where under a coalition capacity firm can happen a government like we have. Yes, yes, my dear gentlemen, but that's not a problem for a sociological debate either, but it is a problem where we need to change the Criminal Law today, not in the part we warned you about when we talked about judicial warlocks, that you can't let a criminal act done out of incompetence, incurable, can't be so artificial that you have serious crimes in the return of those you called, or, translated, by letting them be found ineligible. We know how and how much they pay for the characterization of someone's unaccountability, or the release of guilt, and that these same people appear to you free and do some crime again. You don't have hard words here, you don't have these qualifications, you don't have this kind of action by the parliamentary group that forms the pillar of the ruling majority. You don't understand the seriousness of such acts, in addition to all the morbid headlines in the tabloid and serious newspapers about the greatest violence against children, women and the most disgusting crimes. You can't say – there were always, but it wasn't written about them. I'm saying, when real and true data comes out about increased crime and crime, and statistics show the numbers we can trust, it's going to be a lot bigger than the ones you want to show us. But I don't want to reduce the importance of any problem called crime or crime in any area of life. On the contrary. I ask the ruling majority not to react to the consequences, but to react to the causes. Yes, it is always easier to influence the consequences, because you do not deal with the reasons that led to the cause, but I warn you – whoever lies about you will also lie to you. Fans, those who were once in your service, in the service of power, one minute began to pursue their goals. Some politicians called it a windy toy that started walking on its own. I'm not going to name names. You've got a lot of cases like that. You must understand that those who are taught to do things for you one day turn against you, for an old saying is, "Whoso is the sword, shall die by the sword." When you fight with righteous methods for power, when you fight with truth and not with lies, when you don't lie by keeping quiet how hard we all live, we'll all be much better off. But I want to draw attention to the citizens and to my colleagues and to the subject that we are missing very easily here. Many talk about violence and an inadequate way to fight violence, but why are we delaying for the third time the deadline for passports, i.e. the issuing of travel documents, the deadline to which they must be replaced? It's not unrelated, although it hasn't been much related to a common discussion, with the first subject, except for a delay, but I must say that this law also speaks of a poor assessment of the power of capacity it has and the intention of some work being done. The initial passport replacement deadline was six months in 2008. This government has itself been tasked with replacing passports for six months. We've been doing it for the third time, and now it's three years. What's your excuse? Large demands and lack of capacity in our embassies to issue passports to citizens abroad. My dear gentlemen, why are the passports not betrayed and prepared but that same body, which does not arrive to do your passports, I am talking about the Coin of Money, or the Banknote Bureau... He's already in preparation and announces that he's going to be working on new vehicle plates, and, by the way, I repeat my story, and prescriptions for drugs, I.D. cards, medical IDs. How good does it work? I'll tell you through an example of a parent from Novi Sad who wanted to provide his child with a free snack because he says the state allows him to do it. When he tried to leave information on it and attached the documentation he couldn't attach a copy of the new ID card because this new ID card, like these cards here, could not be copied because it doesn't contain address information, which is the necessary element for that parent to exercise the right for his children. It's said to buy readers, but the only thing the government can do is appeal to those who demand such documents from parents or photocopies to get those readers, they say, are cheap, and get a free program somewhere, a software application to drive one of those readers. If the laws are not respected in this country, you may think the appeals will be respected. That parent was instructed to go to the bank and get a valid photocopy and exercise his right there on a reader at a bank clerk's office. You know how he was welcomed? Similar to those who took the loan, the change in interest or the terms of the return of the loan was entered in fine letters, or those who took the lease, so today they have to return cars because they are not in a situation that because of employment or wages they do not have to pay off. So they weren't welcome for one favor, which would be a default in a country where the replacement of ID cards as a mandatory document costs every citizen. When it comes to exercising some right on the basis of that identity card, he cannot achieve it, because the state has not seen it, from the intention of charging citizens something to the realization of that right of the citizen. It's the same thing with passports, where the National Bank got a job that's by nature the job of the Ministry of the Interior. Dear citizens, if you are in a ping-pong situation between two tents, two organs, competent or incompetent to resolve your question, and you with an unresolved question, with a job, with a personal ID, with a passport, which if you take out a question is where you can travel, given that the only known fear here is that you will be out of a job, the fear that if your child, if he goes to a game, or wrongly, perhaps, along with a group of real hooligans who went there to make a mess, will be shut down, with fear that the law he can deprive you of some rights, or if any right promises you, that you won't actually be able to achieve it... When we have such a government and such a government, don't be surprised at the consequences that we're all suffering together, which is an ugly picture we're sending to the world, but it's a painting for which we've both canvas and paint and skilled masters have been building right here; not us, but you, and for that you have to bear the consequences. I hope so – in the recent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45465	Thank you. I will say first to Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, then to Mr. Zoran Krasic, then to Miss Maja Vidinović, and to Mrs. Juditi Popovic. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45466	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, when we said, after the ferocity of the hooligans, that no one is stronger than the state of Serbia (here, and now the on-call spokesmans appear), we clearly had in mind that at least the MPs had read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 1, says the Republic of Serbia is a state of Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law. You know, I belong to that political group that used to be and how it was exposed to repression and I am very proud of the fact that I am one of the founders of the People's Resistance movement. I remember that 4,000 people, my friends and parliamentarians, were in custody at a time when those who today cry most loudly over the fate of young people, at this terrible and terrible time, were ministers, vice-presidents of the government and directly created the laws and ways of treating the Republic of Serbia towards young people. Not to mention those young men who were sent to war and who returned to mutilate and unhappy after the war horrors they had experienced. Or maybe I'm talking about those who didn't come back from the wars, because those who were sent to wars from which they didn't come back also show how much someone cared about young people. I would say today to those who cried loudly over the fate of Serbia and young people that freedom does not socialise with force. What do love and hate have in common? What kind of community can make darkness and light come true? Never any. But did you see, Serbian citizens, those miners, after 69 days in a cave in Chile, coming out in the light of day? Though they lived only or even 69 days in that darkness and darkness, they put dark sunglasses on the sun so that the light of day would not blind them. How does someone who spent twenty years in the politics of darkness and created a policy that made that darkness even blacker today can look forward to the light of the law? How can someone like that today think he's gonna be the bearer of traffic fires of freedom? How does someone today want to be a spring candlestick, to be a lighthouse for all citizens of Serbia, who will be on the defender of freedom ideas? I can imagine what would happen to freedom and democracy in Serbia if there were no such and such to defend freedom and democracy today. On the other hand, there is today in this hall of prophets, they see everything, they know everything. They're the same ones that reported that Tito had a problem with his leg before he died. They see everything today, they know everything, and they know that this is a law that promotes repression in this country. They literally know everything, like they're looking at beans, like they're psychics, like they're looking at that beans they cooked in Antin. In fact, these are people who are charismatic losers, who see everything else, just don't see their electoral defeat every time in the election and keep calling elections. You know, the Japanese had a kamikaze squad. Political kamikazes lead not to political suicide alone, but to the entire people. It is their problem, whether it will be kamikaze or not, until Serbian citizens want to end their lives that way. Serbian citizens, however, have other goals in life and other ambitions. We heard today and some people say political parties are being held in custody. It's those political parties that see the judiciary that way. These are those political parties that organize the Legions to welcome with champagne when they surrender, and these are those political parties that vass in other people's eyes see the trinkets, and they don't see the forest in their own eyes. These are representatives of those political parties who are too easily rejecting the easy burden of self-judgment and accept the heavy burden of condemning others. You know, some who don't see the difference between two million people defending their election will on October 5th and 6,000 hooligans protesting today because they don't like the way someone defends their rights... Tomorrow they won't like who wins the flower show. Imagine if an exhibition of flowers were organized and some gardener who had exposed yellow lilies was defeated, someone would immediately say, "Uh, lilies, let's take it to Sarajevo; what a yellow, what a democratic prank it is, I don't like it, let's break that booth where the flowers are exposed." But the day after tomorrow, such people will not like my last name and political ideas of my friends and fellow Members, and then we will return to the situation created by hate, hate policy, violence and evil. Gentlemen, you who recognize yourself in my words, I'm glad to hear from you, but it might be better to take notes while I speak, you might learn something, even if you don't throw it when someone's talking. Because those of you who have knocked down the tree of freedom to make it guslas should be on those guslas to remind yourself that these geese have not been applied since you've been in power and that you don't always swallow the same song, because there's no new song going on in the old geese. At least change the geese, if you can't do the song. So the power of the law paves the way for justice and righteousness. I'm not afraid of this law. Those who think that political parties determine who, as well as how long they will be in custody, some such a political programme will be presented in the elections when they run for office and when their political ideas run for Serbian citizens and let them say, you know, we believe that it is not the prosecution that determines the detention, that it is not in the hands of the judiciary, it is in the hands of political parties. I'm undermining those parties who know how to arrange a welcome to the Legion, to welcome him as a folk hero, with television, with champagne, caviar. Then let them tell the citizens -- here, that's our political programme, the citizens of Serbia. Political parties do not determine who, when and how long he is in custody, at least while the Democratic Party manages key resolutions in this country and together with its coalition partners will be responsible for the country's future. When we talk about those people who went to this assembly on October 5th to defend their electoral will, you have to distinguish them from the hooligans, who even then went out. You know, I've been representing my political ideas for twenty years; I've never been ashamed of them, nor have any of my friends who sit here ever put a phantom on their heads and hid behind a hood. No, you and that 5th of October with the hood and the phantoms came here. We defend our idea, they take some TV or picture from this congregation. Whoever set the congregation on fire is already a question of discussion. For the sake of truth, the sacks of prepared election material were first burned, with ballots, which had already been pre-rounded for some famous second round of elections. But these people who have defended their election victory in a magnificent way are not hooligans. There were workers, peasants, university professors, academics, priests, pregnant women, etc. Some say – how could a pregnant woman work at the Democratic Party's headquarters on Sunday? You know, people come to us on Fridays and Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, because our parties' rooms are open, we're not hiding from citizens, we're not putting a locked door on our party's premises, so the people can't get in. We clearly highlight the party features and flags of the Democratic Party, that everyone knows where we are, because there is no reason to be ashamed of any of our political ideas, any of our own effects. When the Democratic Party's past is analysed, it is all honorable, honest, dignified, as Dr Zoran Djindjic said. We are not ashamed of it, we are clearly behind our views, along with the views of our coalition partners right now, and we feel that such a law is necessary. Those who weep over the fate of the passport... You know, last year in a party note, sold on kiosks as daily presses, you announced that passports this year only extend because there will be no white Schengen. Will one of you now say - Serbian citizens, we feared you, here, you got a white Schengen. We are now extending the period of validity of these passports primarily because of our people living abroad and were not in a position and able to replace these passports within the appropriate time limits. Are you afraid of these people coming to Serbia because they don't vote for you? It is known that DS is the largest number of votes and convincing electoral victories in the great capitals of the world where our citizens live. In order for our athletes to beat the state, Serbia must defeat the hooligans and must show that it is stronger than all hooligans. Therefore, the state's response will be clear, precise, concrete, unequivocal and there will be no state institution that will bow its head in front of someone who thinks that this country will be managed by one who has a stronger sniper, better muscles, a more pagan language. We today language arguments and facts oppose the language of accumulated haughtiness and primitiveism. Today, we are lighting the European lighthouse again with this law and we say - no one is stronger than the state of Serbia and its citizens. Those who think that they will dictate when any happens in Serbia, that the news of the day will not be that Mrs Hillary Clinton said that the state of Serbia is the engine of the Balkans, but that they broke up the match in Genoa... You know, the next news will be how many years of slavery they've received, because the state of Serbia has its own European future and citizens of this country, the children of this country and the youth of this country have the right to live in peace, like the whole normal world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45467	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45468	Mr. Novakovic, just in the beginning to discuss some things, because I have to talk to you in my Rules of Procedure, I can't look at it at all, because you're going to kill my warning again, so I'm counting on you to be my unit of all 250 etc. So we have something called force, we have something called violence. What's the force for? Someone's using force to achieve some of their interests. If he uses that force to achieve legally prescribed and guaranteed interests, then we say it's self-help. If he's using force to accomplish something that doesn't belong to him or to do harm to someone else, then we say it's violence. Violence can come from individuals, it can come from several people spontaneously collected, it can have elements of something that is complicity, it can be organized. How does the state defend itself against violence? By law and by force. However, when the state defends itself and uses a monopoly of physical coercion, it is not the scene that you had the opportunity to watch the day (and no longer exists) where a police officer passes and an unconscious Protestant kicks his foot. No one was responsible for that. So, neither man resisted, he was unconscious, he was lying on the sidewalk, his head was on the bank; there was a cop in uniform, and he dumped a man. It's an abuse of force and it needs to be answered for. There's some dialectic between force and violence. You could say there's only a difference in uniform. When it was "a condom against the cordon", it was because the cordon was the regime police, the police of Slobodan Milosevic. As far as I can tell, it's the same police. You said there were 100,000 of them, so at the end of 2000, when you came to power, you realized there were only 18,000. I'm asking a question, just so we know what to trust, who to trust, how much to trust, and, in the end, whether we can even believe it. Let me remind you of some things that will probably lure you to good memories: "Freed, Free, save Serbia and kill yourself". It was several years ago, and it was "Kosutnica, Kostunica", too, and now it's singing in stadiums: "Boris, Boris, save Serbia and kill yourself". Now explain to me what the difference is. When it was "Freed", it was acceptable, when it was "condom against cordon" it was democratic, pro-European; when it was rallying, countermitting, then all those who came from the interior, belonging to the SPS, beat the whole way from the railway station to the Terrace, and it was democratic, because it was subsequently legalized by Mr. Gonzales with a lex specialis. I'm talking about violence as a phenomenon, in an objective way. I'm interested in what these petty grudges or details can justify to a cop, that it's a democratic slap (I know when the hand is democratic) and when it's undemocratic, when it's violence. When Natasa Kandic beats on the street, that's good, human rights fighter. When a person opposes the excessive use of force, he resists the official person and should respond. I'm not defending anyone, I'm not misreading, I'm not accusing anyone, but tell me what a value criterion is in society. Disrespect of the law is causing some sanctions. Is that what it's always been? We're going to have a very interesting situation these days. One minister, in a coalition with the other minister, made a decision not to implement the Law on the financing of local self-government for two years. Do I need to remind you of the kind of mental, psychological, political and violence of another species that exists every day in this building here, where we all know that someone who presides is wrong? What about that kind of violence? What do those people who see that there's no way out have no perspective? What was offered as an alternative? They're offered usefulness. So if you "condomize against cordon", you're a pro-European guy. If, by any chance, you rebel over something you think offends this people's dignity, then you're a hooligan, a criminal, even though there's no judicial judgment, even though there's nothing. You know, between Prometheus and Nero there's a big difference, but the means are the same - the fire. We had Nero here in 2000. You can apologize, say you have nothing to do with these people, but we haven't seen any procedure. You're talking about boys. Well, someone was breaking into some bank, customs. And? Now, if that man goes in, it's pro-European, if Krasic goes in, it would be primitive, simple, Serbian, and the same thing, the consequence. That's what this is about. Until this problem is resolved, we will have a situation for the promoters of violence to sit in the National Assembly. One of them said he'd be hanging out in the terraces, remember that one of yours? He says: “Slob hangs in the bander in the middle of the Terrace, hooking up the militia. ” Who was that singing here, SPS? Yours were singing, Mrs. Malovic. Let's tell one big truth to the public: you don't run this ministry, you run "resist" homen. Do you know what kind of a moral sunflower it is when homen starts applying and respecting the law? "Resistance", funded by the CIA. What's the message for young people? You don't seem to know that. You can put your hand on your eyes and say, "No," but there is, the rest is recorded, you can't forget. I hope the amendment gives us a chance to get into these things a little bit more. Mrs. Malovic, think about it. Short procedure is defined in the law as one exception. With these changes, you make a rule out of the short procedure, and the regular procedure becomes an exception. Let me just remind you of one thing. There is a European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Articles 5 and 6. Everything you do is contrary to the European Convention. I know you have the West's support for these things, because the West is asking you for results, what you have to fulfill is that you can't stand in Euro-Atlantic integration; they've authorized you to do whatever you want to do to get in the way, and even think about it, you can sanction. Now, please, Mr. Novakovic, check out what I'm about to say. There is a "National Radio" in Belgrade, I don't know what frequency. RATEL says he has no license, the RRA says he has no license, they have filed criminal charges, and they continue to work through Telecom to collect their services, take money. You can handle this in five minutes. Show that efficiency as in the fight against violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45469	The word has a folk letter from Miss Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45470	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today's amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure foresee the length of detention in a shortened procedure from the current eight to thirty days, as well as the possibility of determining detention and the actions for which the sentence of five years has been threatened, which will certainly help both the police and the prosecution in this initial and most frequently, part of the investigation. Today, however, we are not just discussing the amendments of two members of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Today we're talking about something much more important. The initiating of these amendments to the law, as a result of recent events that we have witnessed, does not show the weakness of the state; on the contrary, it shows the willingness and determination of the state to deal with organised crime. Serbia today reformes its judiciary, its judicial system, and thus regulates a key area of society. This reform brings about tools to fight organised crime, which, in addition to European integration, is one of the most important, if not the most important task ahead. Adherence to European values, ladies and gentlemen, is shown by works. The European value is a civilized society where violence is sanctioned. The European value is to defend both the freedom and the identity of every man, whether we personally agree with it or not, whether we personally like it or not, regardless of the differences we have, whether these differences are national, religious, racial, sexual or sports. We should not have Europe as our goal, but rather the means to make a better life, to regulate our society, to discipline ourselves, to become more efficient. I am sure that citizens are aware that there is continuity and that there is a common seal among all those who have demonstrated against the arrest of Radovan Karadzic (who, I remind you, arrested this government) and used this opportunity for the hooliganism, savagery, burning of embassies and the destruction of Belgrade; also, among those who killed Bris Taton; among the hooligans who used the constitutional and human rights of the LGBT populations to burn down DS and some other parties and synchronised attacks on police; among those who took advantage of Serbia's football team game for hooliganism and savagery. I think it's quite clear that organized crime is using both right-wing and extreme fan groups to destabilise the state that's sending mob bosses to prison these days, the state that's arresting criminals, that's taking away their property. All these attacks are precisely the response of organised crime and violent groups to judicial reform and the establishment of a rule of law. I think we have an obligation and we have an absolute obligation to change society. This must not be a topic where individuals among us will score political points, because I think by seeking justification or justification for the causes of savagery in Belgrade, they explicitly justify and support it. There is then, ladies and gentlemen, a clear difference between politics and between serious and responsible policy, the difference between irresponsible politicians and a state who is ready to defend itself and deal with organised crime. I am absolutely sure that Serbia will win that fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45471	Thank you, Miss Vidinovic. The word has been given by the vice-president of the National Assembly by Ms Judita Popovic. The remaining time is eight minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45472	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by undermining, and to make it really clear that LDP, normally, does not support violence. It's normal for the LDP to be against violence. We really support the state in its intention to fight violence, in any form that violence appears. During today's debate, I noticed two serious tendencies regarding this law on amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure. There seems to be some relativization on the one hand and on the other. I'd like to point out that the amendments and additions to the law apply to detention. The detention is a fact-finding freedom. Unfortunately, there is a relativisation of this problem by the legislators, and there are attempts to relativise the problem on the other hand that attacks the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on Criminal Procedure. What is the proposal for relativisation of the problem? First of all, it concerns the general framework to be given in respect of stricter provisions on detention. Why is that relativisation? Because there is a great opportunity to target one target group, one problem, despite this good intention to fight violence, the legislator hits a whole other target group and, in the end, to cause one collateral damage, because the broad framework that has been given for these provisions on detention, which are actually becoming more stringent for these changes and additions. As for those who attack the law, relativisation refers to the pursuit of freedom and law. It's just the procedure of how freedom is used. Even though we are all free people and we have certain human rights, that freedom must be framed and it must operate in a certain procedure, so as not to endanger other people's freedoms. For this reason, I believe that all those who attack the tendency and intent of the government, or the state, to protect the legal order, to defend society against violence and crime, are calling and criticising. Unfortunately, it has often been done to defend the legal order that ultimately leads to the restriction of certain human rights and freedoms. I don't think we have the right to achieve this goal of only increasing the repression in the end, without achieving that purpose that is highlighted in the light of this legislative proposal, which is that the state is successfully dealing with the trend of crime growth in Serbia, especially the growth of violence in the streets and stadiums. The Liberal Democratic Party supports the state's fight and intention to deal with crime. For this reason, we also supported the reform of the judiciary and we still believe that the reform of the judiciary is an alpha and an omega of further social development, but we did not give blanco support for allowing judicial reform to stop halfway. We did not support the lack of promotion of the importance of judicial reform for this society, we did not support the release of the reform to the general attack, resistance and obstructions, as well as the failure to defend the reform. What is it, if it simply forgets that they are really low salaries of court officials, that court officials and how significant are the factors in implementing the reform and in the work of the judicial authorities? Why was it allowed, after all, to happen those strikes that made it impossible for the judiciary to function? I don't think money's an excuse. The money was found to pay that amount due to the damage done by another bully, Miladin Kovacevic, and it seems to me that the judiciary, as it does, is charging taxes... Because, in order to verify the purchase contract, it seems to me, the average price of the case, or real estate, requires whoever concludes the contract to pay a court fee worth one, say, washing machine. Money can be a problem, but it can't be an indecisive problem, that the judiciary finally starts from a dead end. With these strikes, I don't think we're going to get off that point. I think it has been missed to achieve a serious social consensus on the objectives and implementation of the reform. This should be done much more, because it seems to me that the most pressing problems of society and state are about the judiciary. The Liberal Democratic Party will support this legislative proposal if it is considered and what it has proposed to its amendments, which is to move from general to something more concrete, in terms of stricter provisions on detention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45473	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word will now be received by the MP Ms Biljana Hasanovic, so Mr Nemanja Sarovic, then Mrs Gordana Komic, and Ms Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45474	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister and representatives of the ministries, MPs and MPs, I will talk within this item of the agenda about amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. At the very beginning, I recall that the Democratic Party in its programme envisioned, as the main objectives of European integration, that is, Serbia's EU accession, the protection of human and minority rights, the provision of rights and freedom to all citizens, the fight against crime and the fight against corruption as a special form of crime, and other goals that are not directly but indirectly related to today's topic, such as economic development, socially responsible policy, citizens' standards. To realise these objectives, as a prerequisite, a reform of the judicial system has been implemented. This reform may have had shortcomings, but it was done as best as possible in the given conditions. In addition, it is a process that is still alive and that will be further upgraded. However, significant results are already visible. The current ruling majority, made up of the Democratic Party with its coalition partners, has been determined to deal with crime, which has developed particularly in the 1990s in terms of isolation, war and which has deeply released roots in society. Progress in European integration and in the charge of crime resulting in the organisation of retrograde forces that are against Serbia's entry into the EU and those forces that belong to the criminal mile. Whenever progress is recorded on Serbia's development path, they strike with their destructive and destructive force. Every occasion, such as the arrest of Hague indictees, sports events, the gathering of citizens seeking protection of their rights, they use for their actions, for attacks on citizens, for their rights, for destroying property and, most difficult for us, for destroying Serbia's reputation both in Europe and in the world. There's no need for a particular cause anymore. We've all been following the events, both before and on October 10th and 12th, but I don't know how many of you heard, so I need to tell you that the night before last at Duke Milos Street, across the street from Pionir Park, a Molotov cocktail was thrown at an entrance to an O.R. where a group of young people had recreation. I don't think this was an individual act, it was an organized action. I also suffered violence on the streets of Belgrade a year ago. Should we let all this spread out, take the wave, not move safely on our streets? Of course not. I therefore support the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. I do not want to explain in detail these two amendments, because it has already been done by the Minister and my fellow MPs before me, I will just say that my opinion is that these changes are necessary to allow the competent authorities to determine the measure of detention against persons suspected of having committed a criminal offence for which the sentence has been prescribed for more than five years, and not as ten years, and if this is justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of the crime, and in a shortened criminal procedure before the prosecution of the motion as long as it takes to carry out investigations, for 30 days, instead of eight days. It is essential to allow competent authorities to take the necessary actions and collect evidence, especially when it comes to a greater number of persons and organised groups as suspected of criminal offences. The comments that have been heard, that this creates an opportunity for abuse by competent authorities, I cannot accept, because I have confidence in the competent authorities, and I believe that it is a wrong view if the law is taken from abuse and not from its proper application. I also cannot accept comments that these changes violate human rights. They limit the rights of a person suspected of committing crimes, while protecting the rights and freedoms of all citizens. For these reasons, the list of ZES will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45475	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45476	Ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, he's ten years old since the regime came to power, and today is a great opportunity for us to recapture as far as we're concerned. For the past ten years, you've reformed the judiciary, you've changed the laws, you've elected and you've resolved judges, you've counter-constitutionalally re-election of judges, and you're telling us that your system is wrong, that you need to change it to get to Europe, in which no one seems to want you. Cvetkovic projected yesterday that Serbia will enter Europe in 2014-2016, and in 2000 you predicted it would be in 2004 or 2006, which means that, like locusts, you "eat" Serbian citizens over the past ten years. With this bill you extend detention for easier crimes, because, as you say, the need has been shown in practice, but you don't say when the need turned out, whether it was ten days ago. The arguments you gave were, in principle, political. You haven't presented us with any analysis, and you've had to, all the cases in the last two, three or five years, so let's see if there's really any need, to see how many of these hooligans or fans are on the run, if that's two, three or five. I'll remind you he's on the run and former president of the FSS. He's in Montenegro. I've seen him myself. He's free to walk. However, that is not a problem for you, your principle is to strike the poor, while these large criminals, such as Terzic, Stanko Subotic and others, can walk freely wherever they want. Most fans are weaker material status. You know well that they have no ability to flee abroad, nor to hide, nor to pay expensive lawyers and to hide in Serbia. You cannot simply change the principle because of individual cases, in this case the law, because the law will not only apply to hooligans, but will apply to all citizens of Serbia without distinction. What we're left with when we change the law is to listen and wait for whom when the regimeal media you're holding is absolutely controlled to declare to be an extremist, a fascist, a hooligan, and then he'll have to fall under those sanctions. So the point of today's debate is not whether the detention will last for eight or thirty days, but in making it clear that this is a violation of the existing rights and freedoms of the citizens, that this is the new "Sabbe" in a limited scope, and that this is actually the expansion of the dictatorship that you carry out from day to day in Serbia. That this is actually about preparing for further choking of human freedoms and rights in Serbia is also about discussing some of your MPs. One even said that the Constitutional Court must make a decision on the ban on certain organisations. Tell me, in what democratic society does an MP in parliament dictate what the Constitutional Court must do? This can only be done in dictatorship and it is another evidence that Serbia is safely sinking into an open dictatorship. You're talking about banning the "Obraza" and "Serbian Courts". Tomorrow you will ban political parties. You say you don't know who is the inspiration of violence on the streets of Belgrade on October 10th. I'll try to help you out a little bit. Days before October 5th, you convinced the public in Serbia that the burning of the Assembly, the destruction of Belgrade, the lynching of the RTS director, the entry into police stations, the abduction of weapons is the height of democracy. Now I ask you, what did you expect those who were five, six or ten on October 5th, and now have 15, 16 or 20 on the streets of Belgrade on October 10th? For the past ten years, you've fed them hate, explained to them that in certain cases violence is justified, and when this violence is about your head, then you pretend to be ignorant and you don't know what it's about. Boris Tadic a few days ago, or weeks ago, abolished the champion of the "Buldozer of Revolution" Makija, who led the attack on the Valjevo police station, and who publicly boasted that he burned down the Assembly, where we hold this session today. But Tadic says -- he's not a Maki ordinary criminal, Maki is an unusual criminal. He's unusual because he's in the service of your regime, and whoever commits crime in the service of your regime is all allowed and he deserves to be appeased. But then the message is that the state tolerates an attack on the police, not what you're saying today. On October 10th, the victims were all on the streets of Belgrade -- victims and those protesting against the maintenance of a gay parade, but the victims were also officers you sent to the streets. You knowingly sacrificed those several thousand police officers, even though you knew that the situation was such that there would be unrest and that there would be casualties, because it was your political decision to sacrifice them. You tell me now, if that rally on October 10th, so on. "The Parade of Pride" was not a high-risk set, which had to be banned, which is a high-risk set that you in Serbia will ban? You're talking about Star derby - Partizan. They have been held up to 130, never nearly destroyed as much as October 10th, but October 10th is a children's game compared to what you did in Belgrade on October 5th, and that's what you have to say clearly. You say you're investigating the financing of the "Obraza" and some other organizations. Why don't you examine SNS funding? They're sitting in your assembly. They do not receive a dinar from the budget, because they stole the mandates after the elections, and they have more money than individual ruling parties and more media influences than the parties sitting in power, and we all know that the media influence is bought exclusively by money. Why aren't you investigating the purchase of SNS council mandates? Fifteen days ago, we handed over an audio recording to the police and the prosecutor's office, which shows the officials of the Serbian Progressive Party are buying committees in the Zemun municipality as in the cattle market. Is it possible for you to extend custody for prostitution to 30 days, and for political prostitution, of which there is a much greater social danger, be silent? How many criminal charges have you prosecuted by the Serbian Radical Party in October 2008 against senior officials who signed some contracts with false authority and kidnapped the council? You're not one, even though you have irrefutable evidence. These are the contracts that are certified in court and there are originals in court. And we came up with some originals, but your political decision was to steal Tomislav Nikolic and SNS, despite what the people assigned to the Serbian Radical Party, preserve, both in the National Assembly and in the local parliaments where it suits you. You're acting like when, from situation to situation, you're okay with it. You have no principles, but you do what is right for you, and when it comes to your head, you complain. You are uncomfortable with the fact that Tomislav Nikolic, who has spit on everything in life and thrown into the water for the sake of power, gave you a lesson about morality, and we come to this absurdity – who, you, about extension, and Nikolic about honesty. It's known that's not how it works in the people. Third, why don't you ask Tomislav Nikolic to state what he stands for? Before the gay parades and Nikolic and Vukic advocated its maintenance, because they were then slightly attracted by foreign ambassadors and then they were bigger Europeans than any of you, I think the feathers for the parade have already begun to prepare. However, when violence has taken place on the streets of Belgrade, they want to touch the citizens of Serbia, so the officials of their party on one radio are publicly calling for all those arrested to report for legal assistance to the Serbian Progressive Party. Let's hear from them whether they're for the police, whether they're for the gay population, whether they're for those you and the EU, who are harder to call hooligans. In the end, I'll just say that the SRS condemns all violence. We also condemn the violence of October 5, 2000, condemning the violence of October 10, 2010, which is the product and the fruit of your violence, but we must point out that today it is not about any condemnation of violence, but it is about your fear that in the same way you came to power and did not fall from power. I must warn you that no dictatorial regime has preserved any repressive measures, so neither will you. As you sow, so will you reap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45477	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45478	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I ask you, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, do not allow any topic to be debated in the way my predecessor did for a moment. If someone thinks it's enough to say that it's against violence, and then to say – this violence has been organised by the government, this violence is a continuation on October 5th, etc., a threat that someone has come to power with violence... I would like to remind you that DOS has come to power the votes of the citizens. You tried to undo that will of the citizens. The citizens went out to the streets on October 5th and said, "That's enough, that's not possible." It is not enough to say in one sentence: I am against violence, and then support all those who are willing to pursue their goals by violence, even those who have earned the punishment they should serve. I ask you, taking care of the dignity of this house, to make sure that neither hate speech nor indirect or direct support of any violent conduct is allowed, you warn those MPs who do not respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45479	I don't think it's an injured member of 107, because everyone has the right to be... Please don't throw it away. Making political opinions, not calling for violence, was the subject of debate here. The way an MP does it doesn't have to answer to another MP. In principle, I think it remains within the limits of relative decency, because I'm afraid competition in rudeness will generally lead us not to move on. For the time being, I don't think Mr. Sarovic's reputation is affected by his speech. If you are not satisfied, it is your right to ask that the Parliament be declared in the voting day and therefore do not think that it was an injured member 107. I certainly ask all MPs that, given the sensitivity of the subject, examples of dictionary and behavior, which is not good in relation to the speaker, because it shows some disrespect. I repeat, I will never participate in a game of competition in rudeness. You have your word, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45480	Of course I'm not happy with your answer. I don't mind that one loser policy here keeps proving why it's a loser. I don't mind. It is perfectly legitimate for them to express their political views, for which they do not have any support for the citizens. I don't have any problem with that. I have a problem with the fact that violence is not just justified by verbally saying that, yes, I support those who did. Any justification for violence seems to be also supporting and calling for violence. That's what I'm warning you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45481	Thank you, too. The word is Mrs. Komic Gordana.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want you to your...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45483	Mrs. Comic, I'm sorry. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45484	Nothing, I'll keep going. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45485	Mr. Novakovic, you've injured Article 27. You saw that I answered and you were obliged to give me your word. I have now come forward because the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and at the first moment I answered, and you could see it yourself, and you could see it on the electronic system, because Mrs. Kolundji's exposure was about my exposure, which was completely misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45486	As I have repeatedly explained, the right to the replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure did not hurt that I did not give you my word before you called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you do not have the right to do. Please do not abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure in Article 103. There's also that attitude 7, I'm very reluctant to apply it, but I don't want to explain it to you anymore. You can tell whether you're satisfied with this explanation or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45487	Mr. Novakovic, of course I'm not happy with this explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45488	Thank you. In that case, the Parliament in the voting day will declare whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure by not giving you my word. You're looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure again? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45489	I'm calling in, Mr. Novakovic, in accordance with article 107. You have injured the dignity of the National Assembly by making me and everyone sitting in this room, as well as the citizens of Serbia watching this broadcast, crazy. If you think you can deal with the opposition that way...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45490	There can be no violation of the Rules of Procedure of transferring the chairman to make someone crazy. It's extremely inappropriate, inappropriate, unpredicted by the Rules of Procedure. Since you are absolutely misappropriating the right of Article 103(1) and despite the warning, on the basis of Article 103(7), I now give the first warning. Please stop doing what you're doing, because it doesn't lead us to anything good, believe me. The word is Mrs. Comic. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45491	Mr. Novakovic, you have again injured a 27th member who says – Chairman of the Bureau, etc. in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. You hurt me by not giving me the opportunity, in accordance with Article 107 and Article 104, to explain the ways in which the injury was done. I have the right to explain within two minutes how, in my opinion, the injured Rules of Procedure, in which way, in my opinion, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured. If I abuse it, so I'm saying something else, or I don't convince you that there's been an injury, then you can realize that I've abused something, violated it, and you can give me a sanction. You have no rights, Mr. Novakovic, using force, brutal force, not democratic principles, but that button you have in front of you, to deny me the opportunity to explain what I want. After October 5, 2000, a button reportedly used by the Socialists to interrupt sessions was ripped out in front of the cameras. What's the difference, Mr. Novakovic, between that button and this button that's much worse, and by which you interrupt the MPs of the opposition and don't let them say what they want? If you want me to consider you a decent man, I ask you to withdraw that sentence and withdraw that argument, because you know very well that Mrs. Kolundjia misread my presentation. You're in the explanation you were giving her that she was wrong because she misread it. You realized she misread what I said. If she misread it, in accordance with Article 104, I have the right to point out that. It was those two minutes. I'm not being rude, I'm not being rude, I'm not being half-decent, I'm just asking for my rights, this little rights that I have in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45492	Thank you. You are repeating the abuse that you have already committed and you are again insisting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is called – disputing the presidency's right to assess whether there is a right to replication or not. It can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45493	I'm reporting from Article 103 regarding Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novakovic, you have harshly violated the Rules of Procedure, both of these members I speak of. The MP shall indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President, or the Chairman. A colleague of Nemanja Sarovic did just that. However, you did not allow him what is the second part of this attitude, which is to explain what the injury is. He was supposed to speak for two minutes and say within those two minutes what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you obviously have done. Your right is, colleague Novakovic, only after those two minutes to assess whether or not the injury has been committed and to inform the National Assembly. You cannot clearly predict what Nemanja Sarovic was going to say. It's clear to us, of course, that you've suffered from the discussion of Nemanje Sarovic, all of you from DOS. You will hear all these discussions and listen to them by the end of today's debate, because we will all remind you of what it is that produced what happened on October 10th and what two days later in Genoa. It may bother you, it may hurt you, but the citizens of Serbia will be reminded of that. You, I repeat, have roughly broken Article 103 and Article 106, which says - no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, of course, except for the president of the National Assembly, but in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The case provided for in this Rules of Procedure, I was just commenting on... He has obliged you to listen to Nemanja Sarovic for two minutes, so that after that, if he deserves it, you may give him a warning, not the way you did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45494	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You quoted everything, and the question and the answer and the explanation, the explanation. Mrs. Jovanovic, in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45495	Mr. Novakovic, I'm really amazed, I don't know what happened to you during this short period of time, whether you were at the moment confused by the misrepresentation of the speech of colleagues Nemanje Sarovic by Mrs. Kolundžija. I'm reporting because you've injured Article 109. Rules of Procedure. My obligation as Vice-President of the Assembly, although I am not sitting there right now, is to assist you in your work and to warn you if you misapply the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 27, what you have done – not one so-called. The violation of all the indents listed in article 109 has not been committed by counterpart Nemanja Sarovic. You, as your colleague explained, have hurt these previous two members. You misused article 109 by acting as chairman, because you are without any basis a colleague of Sarovic, who pointed out, quite rightly... Since you didn't give him the replica, he wanted to tell Mrs. Kolundji that she mixed him up with some people. First, counterpart Sarovic pointed out in his brilliant exhibition and the creation of a retrospective from October 5th to today who the hooligans were on October 5th, who financed them and how the regime was violently destroyed. He then pointed to the hooliganism that began in the National Assembly, the withdrawal of mandates, that the courts were involved. He pointed to certain incriminating persons, such as Vukic, who was once a hooligan beginner, so when he chokes at the game and the police arrive in cheerleading conflicts, he shows parliamentary legitimacy; later he enters some serious criminal activities and actions (he will probably one day deal with state authorities). And he told you about Tomislav Nikolic, who was and was a hooligan of Canet of the Frog and Žarko Zečević. Is that the same man who was protected by the leaders of a club?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45496	Thank you. I understand, but, very simply, we have to agree that the right to the replica can't be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's one thing. Article 103, which my colleague Mrs. Comic quoted as saying in full, obviously something happened, so we stopped listening, begins with attitude 1, which says: "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which was done at a session of the National Assembly that is under way, immediately after the injury done. “ So there are no injuries because we have already established that there is no injury related to the denial of giving words when required by Article 104. But there is therefore an attitude 7, which says - the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give the People's MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Article 1, or in another obvious way, the measure provided for in Article 1. 108 - 111. After more warnings and attempts to avoid the inevitable in every way, obviously, we have ended the debate and the explanation, I no longer intend to go back to the constant and to the definition that reads – Article 104 cannot be the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what we've found to be the full rule so far. You're answering your phone again, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45497	Mr. Novakovic, you were still in debt, since you explained all this in a really wrong way, to ask me if I was satisfied with the answer based on the advertising of Rules of Procedure, Rule 109, which I made very clear to you earlier. You didn't do it. I'm asking you to... Because you just said, by breaking the Rules of Procedure again, that you found that the Rules of Procedure was not injured. You can't determine that. Only the National Assembly can. That's why I'm asking that in the voting day, the Assembly be heard about whether or not you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45498	Of course, in voting day, the Assembly will declare whether or not I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I haven't determined, I've claimed, that's the difference. Mr. Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45499	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. Mr. Novakovic, there's one thing I need to point out to you, and you can check it out from the stenogram itself. I did not report to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 104, to seek violation of the right to replication, although in my opinion it is allowed. The Rules of Procedure say that the chairman decides, decides on many other matters, but does not mean that he can't make a mistake. You decide according to Article 109 whether I can approach the speaker, but that doesn't mean that if you decide to confirm it won't be a mistake or if you don't let me know it won't be a mistake. I can point to that. Mr. Novakovic, I answered because you didn't respond when I answered. You went over it, you gave Mrs. Kolundji your word once. I waited calmly here, so you gave her your word another time. In the meantime, Mr. Novakovic – I would ask Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović to check the stenogram and to judge in this matter – you yourself have found that Mrs. Kolundzija misread my discussion and because you said she had misread it, you denied her the right to speak further. So, you can't say for a moment – Mrs. Kolundjia, you've misread it, and then you don't give me the right to a replica. It doesn't work with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45500	I give my word to the MP Gordani Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45501	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make my contribution within a few minutes to the arguments and the support of the amendments, regardless of the applicants who more detailedly formulate the amendment and addition of the Law, with the wish that if it is not possible to achieve the majority that would adopt the proposed amendments, then the committee in charge does so. Why do I want to support the idea that it's clearer and more precise to define that it's a work with elements of violence? Because we live in a society that has great difficulties deluding itself from violence and hatred; because we live in a society that has great difficulties establishing dialogue without hypocrisy and dialogue on what is the problem of our daily life, from our everyday lives to everything that is happening in the sectoral policies of the state in whose construction we participate, from government, ministries, institutions, to local, regional, or dutiful, republican level, through the judiciary, health, education, therefore, in every place in our society where we have a problem with hate and violence. The problem of hate and violence is not just about society in Serbia and it is not just about society in Europe, and it is nothing special to define that we live in a society that has a problem with hate and violence. What do I want to define Serbia for? Because through the example of violence that we all were obviously going to show that political creation is personal and that the political one that has become personal must not react personally, but also politically. What's the example? The man who stole my opportunity to enjoy the game at Genoa Stadium stole my right not to cheer or cheer, to scold or scold players of the Serbian football team, the bully, the bully, the hooligan who did all this at the stadium in Genoa, stole my right to enjoy the football game. That's how it gets politically personal. None personally created by political causes should be returned personally, but politically, and therefore, this is the bill. The violence we see as an expression of hatred (because violence is a material hatred), the violence we see on sports grounds, or as a follow-up form, politically instructed by following a form, at protests that should be peaceful, is not such that we should respond to it with a personal attitude or fight back with violence and hatred. This violence should be answered by us in the light of a clear legal proposal. The tattooed, the thugs who steal my game transfer are supposed to be in custody. We need to send a message that the police, the prosecution, the courts have in the hands of mechanisms that thugs, thugs, all those who think that through a tangible form of hatred, or violence of any kind can achieve any goal... that they will be unacceptable, undesirable, from the law in our society and from the rules that are considered acceptable in our society, and what is not acceptable. What is the problem with a political that becomes personal and what is the problem of resisting and never answering the political that has become personal, but by political attitude and political procedure? The problem is we don't have a dialogue about what violence is. This same congregation discussed domestic violence five years ago. We listened, just as we hear today, that poor kids are breaking windows and jars, and if we want a law that will have an orphaned adult child in custody for up to 30 days, then we defend him from speaking, protesting, expressing himself. No, I'm not trying to stop him from breaking Belgrade, New Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, the window, the jar. He can't break. To protest as much as he wants. A problem with a political that becomes personal, because you have a personal experience and you have to resist answering it personally, you don't have to answer politically, is our tendency, until recently, that domestic violence is a private matter. We've been listening to this same joke that the state has no right to interfere with the family and determines who you beat to death, husband wife, wife husband, father mother, anyway, brother sister, father, whatever violence you want. We have fought in a very similar dialogue, which has not been established, with the intention of showing that domestic violence cannot be a private matter. It was only when we established a rule, politically, not personally, that someone who beats up within his family is unwanted and has to be detained, tried and punished, that's when we got a list of all the things that are known to be violence in our families. Why didn't it go any easier? Because we don't have a dialogue. Because we do not refuse to use it personally, but politically, when it becomes political. I can share with you my experience that has helped and so perhaps explain to you why the political cause of hatred and violence, when it becomes a personal problem for any of us who is just a citizen who is looking for a responsible state, or an activist, or a politician. When they shot the president in the back together, I saw a smile, a joy on the faces of many who are active in politics today. I heard the expressions of pleasure and wondered how much you must hate to look forward to someone's death. I understood that not only did they hate him, but they hated the idea he had with him, the idea that without hatred, hate and violence can be removed from our society, the idea that good will, work, energy, patience, the answer without personal recognition to any political procedure can remove everything that hatred produces by its decay in our society. I know what you hated. She hated the idea of fighting hate and violence. It's an idea I stayed attached to and which, of course, I want to share with all of you through the hate dialogue, through dialogue without hypocrisy. Every sentence, everyone's line -- poor young people don't know what they're going to do, so they're going to break Belgrade, is to encourage and justify violence. Every excuse for violence is one expression of hatred for something different, which we do not understand, which is unknown, which we have experienced as personal, not knowing that it is political and we are returning personally, not politically. I'm absolutely certain, no matter how many of us who can't resist without showing how much we're cowards, because I know that in the heart of anyone who shows aggression is afraid. Another idea, except for the one we're fighting against hate and violence, I want to share with you. Whenever I address someone who shows aggression and violence, I turn to fear in him, not aggression he shows, because it's a way to reduce the overall level of violence and hatred. Hate is easy, anyone can do it. Justifying ourselves that we do not hate, in fact, but only think that it is not so terrible is inciting hate, encouraging violence and refusing to accept what common damage all of us are doing to justify violence. It is no size, no political or parliamentary, in that in any way any problem is pushed under the carpet and acted, in a sausage view of cobage politics and cobage society, as if the problem of too much hatred, too much lack of dialogue and violence, as tangible hatred, does not exist in society. There is, and the only way to remove it is the dialogue in which we will listen, without hatred, patiently and with a desire to get into trouble. The mechanism that we have for this dialogue as a beginning is the law that is before us. Not doubting that all those in charge of taking care to remove too much violence from society, to ensure security, to eliminate both domestic violence and peer violence and anonymous violence, which many of us are victims, therefore, not doubting that everyone will make an effort to work on it, I want to finally call again to accept any version of the amendment that will clearly be defined that the crime with the elements of violence requires up to thirty days in custody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45502	I would like to thank Vice President Komic. I give my word to Vice President Natashi Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45503	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the opportunity to take the opportunity, within this time available to our MP group, to speak very briefly about the second law, so that Mrs Kasalica and Mr Todorovic do not follow the meeting all day long without anyone saying anything about extending the validity of the old travel documents, or passports. I didn't have a chance, because the Rules of Procedure are restrictive and rigorous, to draw an opinion at the meeting of the Defence and Security Committee, but I will say what I told Mrs. Kasalici and Mr. Todorovic at the time to hear the whole public. In fact, we have to separate two things when it comes to this event. This year, then, for the third time, we have an extension of the importance of the old passport. One aspect is what the MUP of Serbia is doing here in Serbia, and the other is what the Foreign Ministry should do, that is, the Ministry of Economy and this vice president, the famous already, Bozidar Djelic, who said – come on, let's all go to Europe, let's go, the white Schengen has arrived, everything has blossomed and everything is good. Unfortunately, after two years, the government of the Republic of Serbia and Bozidar Djelic were unable to provide diplomatic and consular representations, and thus to our citizens living in the so-called. Diasporas, or abroad, to replace a new passport in countries where they live and work for many years. He well noted Mr. Todorovic at a meeting of the Security Committee that, he said, according to exact data, there was a saturation of Serbian citizens this year when it came to biometric passports, i.e. a request for their release. Which is why we need to ask ourselves here. Because of the disastrous, subversive economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Because citizens believed, apparently, in those false and unrealistic promises made by Tadic, Djelic and other ministers from this government in 2008, especially in December when it was said that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was a condition for Serbia to put a white Schengen. It turns out that people no longer have interest in each other, because they don't have a broken pair in their pocket, but (I cited these data on the Committee) in Kragujevac, for example, 2,200 people didn't come to take over their new passports. You'll wonder why. Because people are demoralized and demoted. They probably expected to receive 1,000 euros from free actions this year (of course, there is nothing), to get new jobs, to improve their standard of living, and we hear a statement from the Association of Banks of Serbia yesterday that the average responsibility of the Serbian population is around 700 euros. Not to mention unpaid bills for electricity, Infostan and unemployment, which has a trend in growth, so in 2009, since we don't have complete data for 2010, it grew to 25%. All this suggests that the government is unable to carry out the orders of the Brussels administration, and that, by doing so, it is lying to citizens that they will be better able to join the EU, which is against which the SRS is and we believe at least 40% of Serbian citizens, who are either express Eurosceptics or have, to say the least, a suspicious view of what the European Union is offering, who, as things stand, will suffer a disintegration in the future. Because the warning of one of the leading countries, which is mostly financed by this bureaucratic project for the destruction of small ones, which is Germany, and the latest statements by Angela Merkel, make it clear that in the future, this artificial creation, which serves to blackmail, primarily for the abduction of small countries' territories, such as in Serbia, for the destruction of territorial integrity, has no chance of survival. Then they really seem funny today's statements by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, which are contradictory with Djelic, for example. Djelic said earlier that in 2020 it may be an optimal deadline for Serbia to join the EU, and Cvetkovic said between 2014 and 2016. And on October 5th, these informants, coming to power, promised to do so in 2007. The people of that time are getting harder and harder to live. You forgot about our displaced, who you left at the mercy of some incompetent consular administration in France, Germany, Canada, Australia. Now these people have to come to Serbia during the upcoming New Year's and Christmas holidays to take out a new passport, or to use this extension, which is getting sick of them. At the same time, it is questionable so-called. The white Schengen list due to the fact that a large number of our citizens have requested political asylum in Sweden, Belgium, Germany and other countries. You should ask yourself, since it's not accurate that it's only Roma and Albanians, or Shipari, who have our citizenship and passport, which is why it's happening. It's precisely because of the catastrophic economic situation in which our citizens are located. To sum up, the Foreign Ministry and, above all, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the so-called The European integration of Bozidar Djelic was unable to equip our diplomatic-consular representations and thus reduce the suffering of our citizens, whom you don't even remember when the elections are and when the polling stations are opening abroad, because no one is informing them about it. Mr. Todorovic himself said a few days ago that they were interested or were called by the controversial consular representations to tell them that travel documents would be extended because they were unable to provide it. Finally, when the Code of Criminal Procedure is at stake, I will just refer to some presentations of some MPs who speak in favour of the factual state; even some who have, we have heard, and in the family methods of social behavior – say they do not go to concerts, don't go to games, they are not going anywhere, they are locked up in houses. I must say, with all the SRS convictions of every violence on the street, to our warning that you should not allow it, because it is a high-risk set, what you allowed on October 10th, and that you should examine the background of that because both Tadic and the leaders of the regime said that certain criminal structures stand... Well, let's hear what structures they are. Even Cedomir Jovanovic said he thinks so. SNS and Aleksandar Vukic stand by and take moves that do not contribute to the peace and stability of the country's situation. We ask you a clear answer, Mrs. Malovic, to tell us. As a visitor to the event, especially when we encourage our team or the club we are rooting for, I am proud that many citizens of Serbia and their children and Serbian triboys, scarfs and hats come to the games and scandal Ratko Mladic, scandal "Kosovo is the heart of Serbia", "Stop Tirana in The Hague", and scandal Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45504	I give my word to MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45505	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking, among other things, about the proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, about the proposed amendments of two members, Articles 142 and 436. I don't see why in the debate that took place here in the House of People's Assembly there are so many reserves under the bill of amendments and addition of the Law, because exactly what we talked about is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is our basic guideline, because it is in Articles 28 to 32. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined the treatment of a person deprived of liberty, defined basic provisions regarding detention and defined the right to a fair trial. I don't see why the justified efforts of the Ministry of Justice, the justifiable efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and, hopefully, most of the MPs in the National Assembly, are aimed at creating conditions to fight in an adequate way against the violence that is present in society... I'm also speaking here as a graduate lawyer who had the opportunity to meet with legal affairs more than 25 years ago. I have been in touch with the application of those provisions that treat the issue of detention and the proper application of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The fact is that when we analyse the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we can conclude that there is a permanent need to create conditions to effectively combat violence and respect those fundamental human rights which are also guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but which are guaranteed by the European Convention, which is the right to life, the right to freedom and security and other human rights. I think it's our job to prevent the destruction of public and private property and to prevent the creation of an insecure psychosis among citizens. It is by adopting the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure that we will be in a situation where a person acts against explicit imperial norms, when he commits a criminal offence for which the sentence of over five years has been threatened, and where justified by the particularly difficult circumstances of a criminal offence, if there is a reasonable suspicion that someone has committed such a crime, he is in a position to conduct a criminal procedure. I must refer to the provision of Article 141 of the current Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is defined that detention can only be determined by a court decision, under the conditions laid down in this Code, if detention is necessary for the conduct of criminal proceedings. That's what the Constitution says. It is added: "if the same purpose cannot be achieved by another measure". The adoption of the proposed amendments allows for the possibility of issuing detentions in a situation, for example, as today may exist, which is for the criminal act of violent conduct in sports events, when the basic form of the crime has been committed by the group or when a person is seriously injured or property of greater value has been damaged, and that detention is justified due to particularly difficult circumstances of the crime. It will also create opportunities to determine detention in cases where there are particularly difficult circumstances of criminal offence and for the interference of an authorised official in performing security and public order and peace activities. I don't see why anyone can have a reservation according to the proposed amendments to the Codes, because it's not said anywhere that detention has to last so long and so long, it's just that it's possible that, with regard to the uninterrupted conduct of a criminal procedure, it's going to be in custody, I'm talking about a shortened procedure, no longer than 30 days; it can be less than eight. It is normal that the proper application of the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure of detention in each individual procedure will determine the minimum or minimum time necessary. I have to say that these changes should not be tied just to certain games, to present violence before, during and after such manifestations, because we must not agree that fans are what hooligans are, criminals. Fans cheer for the club, and hooligans and criminals are the ones who act against imperial regulations, who violate the law and inflict evil on society. For cheerleading, no one will ever be punished, but it is normal to demand that individual responsibility be determined in any case. I think that in terms of everything that has been going on in the past here in Belgrade, and not only in Belgrade, it is necessary to give recognition to police and other authorities. I think we've often forgotten that we've given up the confession and the emergency medical services at the Emergency Center, the doctors and the hospital staff, who've faced the consequences of the violence they've done. I think that just the adoption of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure should contribute to the creation of a situation where doctors and hospital staff do regular jobs, not that they have to help the injured because of violent behavior, when the law is violated. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to support the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the voting day, as this will allow us to continue the fight against violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45506	Thank you, Mr. Mikovic. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45507	Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SRS, as my predecessors have said, support the fight against any violence, including violence on sports grounds, and agree that we should use all the legal means to banish hooligans from sports fields. But I'm asking a question -- why doesn't the approximately so much social energy you're now wasting on a hooligan chase spend on fighting a much greater evil, which is a drug abuse? Is it more evil when several thousand young people in Belgrade each day take drugs, kills themselves, destroys their family, threatens the environment, or is it more evil when several thousand Serbian young people once a year attack police and breaks several windows because they were provoked by maintaining one, essentially a nadaadic, manifestation? It is obvious that the parade of shame in Genoa is a continuation of the parade of shame in Belgrade. It is also clear that both parades were organized by the same directors. It is those forces that are much more concerned about the fact that 90% of Serbian citizens condemn the fact that men who have sexual relations with each other are making public parades, rather than that 33,000 people die in Serbia every year more than they are born, or because there are more than 30,000 completely abandoned rural properties in Vojvodina alone. With these forces, we heard here in the assembly today, this scandal was needed, not to deal with the hooligans, because the police know who the hooligans are, who the leaders of the hooligan groups are, and if the state wants to deal with them, they'll all be arrested within 24 hours, but they needed all of this to have justification and cause to ban Serbian nationalist organisations, we heard here, "The Face", "Movement 1389", "Our", "Dverry" and others. I agree with the claim made here by a colleague from the DS that children who watched the television broadcast from Genoa suffered severe trauma. But I ask the question -- what kind of trauma did the children who watched much longer and much more brutally convey the savagery of hooligans on the streets of Belgrade on October 5, 2000? The fact is, both transmissions have been cut off. This broadcast on October 12th was interrupted because the judge broke up the game; there we saw only a few brutal scenes where fans are against, so to speak, material-technical means. The broadcast on October 5, 2000 was interrupted because the hooligans burned down the state parliament building and the state television building. We can adopt a hundred amendments to the Criminal Law here, however, it will not help fight hooligans, especially the fight against hooligans on sports grounds, unless the state of Serbia provides answers to some questions. First question: who in the state structure organized the savagery of hooligans in Genoa? Secondly, who in DOS parties has protected Ivan Bogdanov and his like from the government in Serbia for the past ten years? I remind Serbian citizens that Ivan Bogdanov is one of the heroes of October 5th. He was one of the leaders of the hooligans who attacked, committed a terrorist attack on the police station on Mother Jerosima Street, disarmed several dozen police officers to humiliate them, took them off in their underwear. He who humiliates the police, the civil servants, also humiliates the state, but for you they are not hooligans. I ask the question, how is it possible that someone who attacks the police on October 5, 2000, is disarming, burning the state parliament, building television, smashing hundreds of windows, not being a hooligan, and someone who only attacks the police on October 10, 2010 (I say "only", although it is brutality and hooliganism) and breaking a few dozen windows being declared a hooligan and the biggest public enemy? I remind you, on October 5th, the same police station was taken 300 pieces of automatic weapons. It is clear to all, for what reason, that, if necessary, they would also defend the fluids of the coup. A few dozen snipers, machine guns, were taken away. It seems to me that for ten years Serbia has been paying the five-octobaric DOS debt to Belgrade criminals. As one of the organizers of the fan rampage in Genoa, mentions a certain Dejan Stojanović Keka, leader of the new Belgrade criminal clan. Be careful what we read about a man from police sources, he says – people can only enter that clan who committed murder or attempted murder, first news. The second news – man is the manager of the famous footballers "Red Star" and "Partizana", including the goalie of Stojkovic's team. The third news -- an international arrest warrant has been issued for him, but the police cannot arrest him. Look out, in downtown Belgrade, a man sells footballers to Serbia's team, footballers "Red Stars" and "Partizana", and police can't arrest him! That story can't even be trusted by kids who are ten years old. The next question: when will Serbian citizens finally see the court epilogue about Svetlana Raznatovic Ceca, a folk singer, stealing fourteen million euros at the sale of footballer Obelića? Next thing you know, why haven't the police revealed yet who killed Branko Bulatovic, Secretary General of the Football Federation of Serbia, or Yugoslavia? Is it true that he and the leaders of the FSJ were involved in the mob business of selling players, setting up matches, so that blood fell around the millions? Next thing you know, what is the role of Zarko Zečević in the "Partizan" football club? How is it possible that Zarko Zecevic appears as a man who along with Milorad Ulemek Legija, your brother and comrade, and now as a state enemy and murderer, carries money to the kidnappers for the ransom of businessman Milija Babovic? What about the investigation against Dragan Djajic and Vladimir Cvetkovic? A little, little while later, it was said that they were found involved in another resale of players, in another racketeering and that the state was damaged by several million euros, however, the trial could not begin. To finish, in the FSS, in "Partizan", "Red Star", in Serbian football everything is known, and the police know everything, I am responsible for that. You know who sets up games, who controls and sells football players, who out of these transfers takes a racket, who brings pyrotechnics to stadiums. I ask the question - why don't you arrest those people? It takes you 24 hours, and there is a legal framework. I don't think that's your point. I think you're leading this media stunt, as you admitted today, to end up banning these Serbian nationalist organisations: "Face", "Dverry", "Movement 1389". You're taking the heat against young people who can't accept that the moment our country is occupied, when they kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, instead of a military parade, you're building a gay parade in downtown Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45508	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, once again we have amendments and additions to the law, which is nothing new in our Parliament – and by emergency procedure, not even a normal eight-day period will wait, but will immediately come into force – where two words are changed, the word 'ten' is replaced by 'five' and the word 'eight' is replaced by 'thirty'. That, Madam Minister, is absolutely nothing. The problems are far deeper, much more rooted, lasting permanently long, and you haven't responded at all. When I say you, I don't mean you personally, but I've been thinking for the past ten years. We've heard from you here today that violence has recently occurred on sports grounds, violence has escalated lately; practically, it happened on October 10th and now in Genoa. What is certain and what we suspect is that the amendments and additions of this law will be applied selectively. We're sure of that, because it turned out in the previous period that there were problems with you in the judiciary. Whatever you're trying to defend the position that in the judiciary with this reform is much better, the fact is that it's worse. We can see that now that your administration is strikein' and working allegedly just for cases that are urgent and urgent. All this stuff that's been going on in the last ten days... We had opportunities to see, we know that a Security Council session was held, chaired by Boris Tadic himself, but we have not heard any concrete moves. You're actually running away from responsibility. Don't run away from responsibility, because you've been in power for ten years and you're responsible for everything that's going on in the Republic of Serbia. That's why you're in power. Many MPs today said that some things are being pushed under the carpet. First of all, I think you're pushing them under the carpet, that the essence of our citizens' problems is being pushed under the carpet; you're running from reality, you're running away from the fact that Serbia has never lived harder than it is today. We have heard here that we must fight for human rights, that everyone has the right to express his will, his diversity. The difference is God's day, there's a man, there's a woman. We've seen what this diversity has brought us that you've allowed to appear that way on October 10th. But the truth is you got a warrant to keep the parade going; it's actually the cause of all these conflicts, and the reason why we have this law here today is because it's all connected, Madam Minister. Here some MPs have said that citizens have their rights above the state. That you selectively apply everything, and above all here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when the MPs of the SRS are denied to talk about problems... I just want to remind you that at the beginning of the third session of the second session of the SRS MPs here in parliament had this sign, that is, our request to prevent the killing of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Parliament Vice-President Gordana Comic told our MPs of the warning, ordered it to move away. Is it a violation of basic human rights that we asked you to protect the citizen of Serbia, our party president, to provide adequate protection? No, I don't. What doesn't suit you, you just don't allow it. That, Mrs. Malovic, is not democracy, it's terror. Not only can we not have freedom of thought and freedom of expression, but simply (it happened when we were removed from Parliament) you prevent us from telling the truth. The truth is painful, but you have to accept it and you have to accept responsibility because you've been in power for ten years. All that's been going on in the last ten days, you've tried to defend it in some way, but believe that story is deplaced, that it's already been licked. You're not responsible for anything, normally, and you're trying to transfer responsibility to the opposition. The arguments you're going out with have already faded, Mrs. Malovic, and believe that the citizens will certainly not believe you anymore. For the past ten years, you have drained both Serbia and Serbian citizens so much that it simply cannot be put up with. All that was happening on the streets wasn't directed against "The Parade of Pride". People are simply dissatisfied with the way of life, dissatisfied with their existence. They can't make money, they can't feed their families. There is, but you didn't mention it at any time. As someone who's been in sports for a long time, and active for twenty years, I want to tell you that here is a simple solution and that you have no excuse for this urgency of this law. The government can do anything. The Department of Sports can do anything. If that's such a risk, if national security says it's a huge risk, even now 5,000 cops, two helicopters, will be hired for derby, what's that? It's just that the game is canceled, or he's playing without an audience. Human life has no price, Mrs. Malovic. You must be prepared to take the way you came to power... that these young men saw all this from you, for many also participated in the burning of the congregation in 2000. Is breaking the law entering the NBS with a sock on his head and a kalashnikov? You gave them an example. Make sure the claw has two ends. And you have to be prepared for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45510	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. There are 23 minutes left for the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to these standard lessons, reports, triads, even the prophets we had the opportunity to hear from the ruling MPs, we must return to those basic statements, those who bear responsibility. These are the statements of the Minister himself. The minister tells us this morning about the bill's proposal and its explanation that this problem takes international character and is very damaging to Serbia's reputation abroad, as well as to our strategic interest, which is EU accession. Let us now agree, whose strategic interest this is, whether the Democratic parties, whether the Serbian or Serbian governments and whether it is at all an interest or something else that could harm Serbia, such as. The number of hungry people who visit containers every day around Belgrade and across Serbia? According to you, the escalation of violence is directed against the most important human rights that every democratic state is obliged to protect, such as the right to life and personal security, the gathering and free expression of opinion. I remind you that the free expression of opinion, thanks to you, has driven our President to The Hague tribunal, that his free opinion came from the sentence of the late prime minister – take him away and do not return him, and that the current of the European Union, which you are calling upon, is the very UN tribunal that has held the man, innocent and innocent there for eight years. Since you are collecting the European Union's liquids and passing us the fluid of your vision of entering it, I must tell you that human rights are at risk when you deprive someone of their freedom. You're deprived of freedom by this bill and you're putting a sign of equality between the persons who are convicted and those who are detained. I remind you that eight days is enough for every prosecutor and officer to collect enough evidence for anyone suspected of such a difficult act, as indicated in this proposal of Article 436. So 30 days serves exclusively for manipulation and for a sign of equality with someone who has already been punished by a second-degreed authority. Mrs. Malovic, you know very well what a presummation of innocence is; everyone is innocent until proven guilty to second-degree bodies, and innocent people will be held for 30 days because the prosecution or the police thought you should do so. Now I'm telling you that you're going to have a huge number of cases where people are going to ask for damages from the state, because they've been lying for free for 30 days. The evidence is even this October 10th, there are a large number of people who were arrested that day and processed without any excuse, because they were in town that day, walking along a path that was banned or reserved for gay populations. I'll also remind you of the police pressure to sign statements with some names and last names that those arrested don't know about, just to give them freedom. It is another aspect of your European human rights and freedom of speech. I remind you that the conditions in which they were arrested that day at the station of any police administration in Belgrade are such that everyone would wish for freedom and agree to any signing, not names and last names they do not know. If we're going to talk about human rights, then we have to do it in a decisive way, and by making individuals present to us whether we're part of some hatred of the dark forces, since it's obvious that you're always responsible for the global economic crisis, the opposition or the dark 1990s. You don't have another answer, because you think you're never causing any trouble. I will remind you that for the ninth time we are bringing amendments and additions to this law, that we are terminating the adopted agenda and by an urgent procedure we are passing this law, we are voting it with a deadline of one day of voting because it is on Saturday's derby. Now I ask you, whose service are we here? Whose rights are at stake here? Do I have to participate in this debate because you think derby is a danger to the state? Whose rights are threatened when we disrupt the standard agenda to bring something together? Are we a football game service? Are we the service of sports clubs, or the president of the state, or the secretary of justice who says, and there's no day of work, no profession, no experience, nothing, that we have to deal with something decisively and that we're going to be a service? MPs will be a law-making service because an individual has said so in order to join the European Union. I'm asking you, when we compare human rights, why didn't you ask for human rights in other things? I remind you of "Sablja", which you organized when you introduced an emergency. I was afraid you'd bring in a state of emergency to deal with those who don't feel the same way. You act on principle -- whoever said something against the Democratic Party is against the state. To do this, the law must be passed; then go to prison and then, according to that ancient historical fact – whoever was against communism, went to Goli Island. I'm pulling that parallel to remind you that half of you are children of communism, which is why we have this on the agenda today. I'll remind you that an individual or a few individuals are not fans. Fans are mass. I'm a fan and I don't feel like a hooligan; it insults me every time the hooligan who set this building on fire -- and if he hadn't set it on fire, he'd never get into it -- he tells me, because I'm a fan, that I'm a hooligan. No, the hooligans are the individuals you caught in the act and with the evidence you present they need to match. I don't want to justify it at all. If the hooligans are called all those who think Serbia shouldn't be a country of homosexuals and lesbians, then feel free to call me that, I don't mind, but it's my right to say that you can't call me that because I have the right to freedom of speech and opinions. How many people were arrested that day and how much was released, you can check it out. What is very important to me, it is a sentence by the vice-president Radovanovic, who says hooligans and extremists should be treated as organised crime. I'll remind you that organized crime, by definition, is the spray of state and criminal structures, so this is, perhaps, a unique opportunity to exorcise the tax collectors, inspirers, financiers and other associated state figures with the structure of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45512	The word is Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45513	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, regardless of what we could hear today from the MPs who support the government, whose member you are, regardless of what you will say after commenting from the MPs, these two draft laws are the best proof of how badly the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I can't help but comment on one sentence and the law on extending travel documents. As counterpart Natasa Jovanovic said, it is in any case necessary to commend Mrs Kasalic and Mr Todorovic, who have followed the work of the MPs. Mr. Todorovic and Mrs. Kasalica could remember, I can't exactly know, when was the last amendment and addition of this law, with the same proposal for amendments and additions; there was an amendment of the SRS to delay the application of this law right up to the period that you are now proposing. This is a distraction of the MPs, i.e. showing as much and as how the Government of the Republic of Serbia works. Someone's responsible for this. Those MPs who speak like this today are not responsible either. Their values are one, ours are another. Serbian citizens have their own values that foster and heritage. Mirko Cvetkovic, I think, is not responsible. It is not recognized by Serbian citizens, except in that place, as the prime minister who should be responsible for something under the constitution in charge of leading internal and foreign policy. Because we had a situation where the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic violates the Constitution here and says -- he's not responsible, Vuk Jeremic as foreign minister, he didn't create this foreign policy, that's what we agreed with me in the cabinet. Instead of reacting to a state prosecutor, or a public prosecutor, nothing, goes on. Because of that responsibility, someone has to be punished. The diversity in feelings, the diversity in some belongings are some standards that are not the heritage of the SRS, but we do not defend these people from having such feelings, because we know that in a natural way it is not possible to prevent it. If the BIA had some data, some facts, pointed to it, then someone had to be responsible and safe and not to stick his finger in the eyes of his citizens. I can never accept the qualifications you were talking about. I can understand that on October 10th there were those who committed certain crimes, but if there were 6 thousand people there, and you see how many were arrested, maybe some for a reason, some for no reason, but there were many more of them than those who were arrested, I suppose, that you had reason or cause, you would have arrested everyone. The fact that something is called the Law indicates that codification is done in a good degree. If there's a codification somewhere, and that's the Code of Criminal Procedure, then we can't do the alterations and additions for a relatively short period of time. Legal norms should follow life, but they must not lose safety. If some legal norm can't handle its papers, it can't ever get wings for implementation, and you here are changing these legal regulations and the Code of Law as you think of it. The detention is a constitutional category, a category known to him and a Criminal Code. In the Constitution there are two provisions dedicated to detention, there are seven provisions in the Code. Today, there are a large number of colleagues here who want to justify the amendments and additions to this law; they spoke of detention as if it were criminal sanctions, not one of the ways of bringing in the defendant or one specific way in which the defendant's freedom was solved. When are you going to figure out what this is about? You confessed, Mrs. Malovic... I said all the government's infirmities are being shown here. Here, your persistent story of a successful judicial reform... Here, in your explanation, you said they couldn't be processed and that there were certain problems. Well, it's not that I can't, it's that you didn't choose the highest-quality judges. Well done, there is, I mean, a number of very high-quality and good judges in our legal system, but there was one number of those who had to be admitted there. And you and I (I'm not asking you for a confession, of course) know how certain judges are received. That's why they're not frames to do this. Now, some judge has been acting objectively in these cases, when Srdjan Milivojevic said how dangerous this is, how much DS is fighting for legal certainty, to stabilise social interests, so let some judge squeeze, not accept. Of course, I'm kidding, I think the judges will continue to judge on the basis of conscience, that is, the law and the Constitution. But it is enough to conduct controversy and discussion in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia in this way, so that many judges understand that detention is mandatory. He is actually a cascade of creation; if there is a possibility that the accused may be brought in and treated in another way, custody should not be applied. Prison isn't something that's mandatory at all, it's something that it can do, but unfortunately, you'll always use it as something it has to. There have been many cases that perpetrators, or persons suspected of committing a crime, have been detained and have been detained for longer than provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and for more than six months, and that this case has never been brought to an end, has not been brought to justice or any judgment. What's this about, Madam Minister? Among other things, you are obliged to take care of the health of all detainees, wherever they are, and in Serbia, in particular you are bound by Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and elsewhere, says - Serbian citizens, and adds - Serbs, although they do not have the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. If you've taken it, if your conscience is clean, I don't know, you might answer yourself. But if I were you, I would never accept coming to this respectable home and defending a law like this that really doesn't make any sense. These two provisions that change are completely pointless and bring nothing to the citizens of Serbia. You do little analysis, which is why some laws need to be proposed and passed, which is why some changes should be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45514	Thank you, Mr. Perry. As the last registered speaker, the People's MP, Mrs. Verice Radeta, has the word. The remaining time is eight minutes and ten seconds. Here you go. It's easier if...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45515	It's easier if the system works, yeah. Don't make fools out of us, like we don't know to include this miracle that works every third time. The supreme proof that the institutions of the system do not function in Serbia and that we do not actually have a state is today's session, that is, this agenda. The last working day of 2009, we spent with the same theme, and we discussed the same changes to these two laws. Of course, now, especially when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is clear that this law is being changed on purpose, only because of events that took place in Belgrade on October 10th and 12th in Genoa and because of possible events that could happen on Saturday, in a derby, which may be happening, and perhaps not. It's a poor country, it's a poor legal system when it has to act by amending the law when something happens. You know, the state, if it's serious, should have such regulations that they cover anything that could possibly happen to the state. You've had, and we've had experience with you five-eyed men. Of course, it hurts when we remind you of that, but we have to. I'll say something short first. You have extended these amendments to the law of detention to 30 days for all acts for which the sentence of five years has been threatened. Imagine what kind of situation both Serbian citizens and judges will be in; judges, by passing this law, should no longer use their free judicial confidence because this law requires that detention is mandatory for 30 days. That, of course, is not right. The second question concerns, for example, the Belgrade Central Prison, in which you now have three times as many detainees as it should have in relation to the Central Prison capacity. I'm asking you, Madam Minister, you're saying that this law will come in handy, or in maintaining public order and peace, where the sentence of up to five years in prison is threatened, does this mean that it will be mandatory for a citizen who sells something by the market to survive, because he will verbally clash with a communal inspector? That's what this law says, and that's what you said. Of course, here colleagues from the ruling coalition have had many objections in the way we Serbian radicals talk about this law and this topic that we are spreading in this regard. Yes, she's right, Mrs. Comic (not here right now), she's right when she said it wasn't moral and that it wasn't human to have someone looking forward to someone's death. That's what we told you when you were playing colorful balloons and playing bike while we were standing next to the Ark of Slobodan Milosevic on the day of his funeral. A colleague here read the Constitution and constitutional provisions. Yes, colleague Mikovic, every law should have a basis in the Constitution. Is it possible to change the law nine times to realize that there should be a basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Of course, it doesn't need to be broken, it doesn't have to be burned, it's socially dangerous. All those who do so should respond, but so should you, gentlemen who are sitting here, who have burned this Parliament, who have lynched the man, the director of the then television, who burned down the RTS building, who stole the art and furniture from this Parliament, you who have organized it with money from the West. A colleague Vela Ilic is not here right now, he said three days ago on one television that he himself brought you money to fund and "Resist", a colleague of Milivojevic. It is truly amazing that one of the champions of the "Resistance", who is today the secretary of state, says the state will react creepyly. First of all, it's not a lawyer's dictionary. What does it mean? The state will react with a terrible reaction? I'm really fed up with that Secretary of State statement. Don't you learn the "Sabbe" action when you have 14,000 people arrested without any legal basis? Was anyone responsible for everything, first of all for the material assets that the state had to set aside to pay these people, because anyone who sued... That is how it will be for you even now. Whoever sues you will receive a great reward from the state, because he has no legal basis. You're talking about some humanity. Why is Mladen Obradovic's wife detained, who is due to have a baby every day? What's her fault? I don't get into what it is and is Mladen Obradovic responsible, I believe he isn't, we believe he isn't, but I allow him to show it to a certain court case, but why is his wife responsible for bringing her to the police and harassing her? So, look, it didn't all start from you. You say, "We're waiting for you" is a threat. Well, wasn't the threat "It's Over"? Is it not the threat Krasic quoted as saying, "At the Bandar in the middle of the Terrace hangs Slob, a hook of militias?" You, Mr. Democrats, sang it, you said it. Now you're saying someone else is responsible. Well, you're responsible now, of course you are. says Sasa Vukadinovic, director of BIA, says Boris Tadic, director of everything in Serbia, that they knew what would happen this October 10th. They knew and consciously allowed Belgrade to be torn down, so many injured. Thank God, there were no human casualties, and they say even something like that was expected. In spite of all this, they allowed, in order to get to the EU, to have that parade, which you could have organised in some closed space, you who were in the mood to participate, no one was defending you, but you should not have allowed it, especially when you knew in advance, to make everything happen. And you knew, says Boris Tadic, here, I'm not saying, I'm just quoting him. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to be aware and don't be angry when we remind you that everyone should be held accountable for every crime. Everyone should be responsible for every violence. But if you claim that Slobodan Milosevic is a dictator and that the fight against him is in any way legal and legitimate and if you were able to attack the police, then why blame someone who thinks that the rule of Boris Tadic is a dictatorship, that it is a dictatorial regime? Then why does Boris Tadic say the attack on the police is an attack on the state? Do not differ with the arches, but first face what you did on October 5th. Let's finally get all these pictures back from this assembly, get the furniture back from this assembly, so the champions don't amnesty on October 5th, but respond, and only then do you have the right to call on responsibility and possibly some responsible for October 10th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45516	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45517	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in today's debate and contributed to their discussions that the violence that took place on the streets of Belgrade and Genoa at the football game is condemned. In this regard, I would like to agree with the discussion of some MPs that, regarding this topic, not only should it act repressively, but it is primarily a role in preventive action. That is why I believe that there is a responsibility and obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to develop certain programmes in this regard and as a member of that government, I will advocate that this should happen. Also, I want to agree with the discussions that the amendments to this law will not prevent violence completely. The amendment of this law will be one step in preventing this violence, as it will allow judicial authorities, primarily courts, to act more effectively and to proceed uninterruptedly with criminal proceedings. I also want to point out the fact that I think this debate is another step in condemning, because not only should the ruling parties participate, but should the entire society participate, and in particular the role of parliament is important. Once again, I would like to remind you of the fact that last year the Criminal Code was amended in this House, where a crime was introduced to prevent violence in sports events that were extended to public gatherings, which is why the processing of offenders for such crimes is taking place. I cannot agree with the fact that the amendments to this law are a step backwards in terms of rights achieved. In this respect, the Constitution of the RS, the Convention on Human Rights, is fully respected, because we as a member of the Council of Europe and as someone who claims to be part of the international community and to bring our institutions in line with the democratic order, of course, will not do so. This, as I said, should only contribute more effectively to the conduct of judicial authorities. I want to point out that this does not constitute the introduction of mandatory detention. So there's a disposition of courts, if they think that in a certain procedure, in a certain event, there are facts that are treated with this law, that in these cases they make arrests. I also remind myself once again of the fact that this law does not change because we have a fear of events that may follow in the game scheduled for Saturday, this is already aimed at the efficiency of the courts. I thank the MPs who have submitted the amendments. These amendments will, as always, be carefully considered and everything that represents improving the law will, of course, be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45518	Thank you. Since we have exhausted the lists of parliamentary groups no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I give the floor to Mr Colakovic, so to Mrs Kolundzija, as presidents of the parliamentary groups. I call on others who have their right under Article 96 to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45519	Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, the honourable minister and representatives of the ministries and the government, the honourable MPs, before I say anything about the subject, I want to thank them today for allowing them to see in what conditions and how their representatives work. With regard to the draft law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, I would like, as soon as possible, to make several basic views of the PUPS Parliamentary Group. I would like to say right away that we support the amendment law and amendments to the Law on travel documents. We believe that the proposed law should be adopted, adopted, and the parliamentary group will do so in the voting day. However, it is, according to our assessment, only one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is much more serious and much more important. A lot of MPs have pointed out that here. In our opinion, what about the family, its responsibility, its participation in the process and the problems that are happening? Today, there was little to say about it or there was no word at all. The family must take responsibility for everything that happens today in society, especially in these problems. Second, what about the education system? Does the education system bear responsibility and need responsibility for the situation in which the young generation is located? Schools, educational institutions and others must take responsibility for all this. Third, where and how do associations work and operate? We've passed the law on that. Unfortunately, we haven't passed the law on sports yet, the law on privatisation in sports, and that's a big problem. Where's their responsibility? What's there to do? The last thing we think we should say is, where is the responsibility of the National Assembly and of us MPs? We can't rely on just what the ministries, the government or anyone else is offering us. We have a control function over everything we bring here and adopt. I think we're holding responsibility for what's going on, and we need to be on our boards to prepare documents, to prepare measures, and to take measures on this. In this way we will fully achieve our control function. We have to admit it's not there. At the very end, we come to this law, only after all this. Anyone who stands back, anyone who violates the values I have spoken of, and I would especially like to point out what our distinguished young MPs Vidinović and Jovisic spoke of, must bear responsibility and come under the influence of the law. In that sense, we think this law should be passed. It is normal that in the process of social events, there are changes and additions in the process of maturing society, and therefore we understand why laws are often changed and complemented. Our MP group values enormously and can commend the work of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior for everything they have done and for preventing the consequences of some of the unsatisfactory events that have been happening here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45520	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45521	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today discussed amendments to a law that seem to be small changes, but have opened a huge topic. If anything useful has come out of today, it is that an important topic is discussed, very often, unfortunately, party colored, unobstructed, but still an important social topic is open. I agree with anyone who thinks that amendments to the law won't solve the problem of violence in society until the end, but what I can't agree to... It is a complex problem, which requires a comprehensive analysis of the situation in society, states and other areas, not only in the judiciary, police and other state bodies, but also in education, in politics as well. What can be drawn as some conclusion from this debate today, in my deep confidence, is that politicians are responsible for everything they say publicly. So every attempt to justify violence is an invitation to someone else's violence. Anyone who tries to claim that violence is the result of social dissatisfaction actually encourages violence that can always seek national goals, great national ideas, defense of traditional values, etc., but essentially remain violence. So, no social reason, no great national idea can be an excuse for violence, nor can any bully be amnested by responsibility for violence, regardless of what sort of alleged idea he had. In this regard, since there have been attempts to make this violence, which in some ways is now growing in Serbia, justifies the alleged violence that took place in 2000, I just want to say one thing. The Democratic Party has always felt that the power is being won and lost in the elections, and we have only fought for it, that the elections are fair, that we compete on equal terms and that whoever gets the support of the citizens has the opportunity to implement the policy offered to the citizens as an alternative. We fought for it both in 2000 and 1996 when the opposition won in Serbia's cities and when these elections were annulled. We never called for violence. No one has ever been given the right to exercise their rights in a violent way. If someone needs to justify their policy, in whose very nature it was violence, by accusing someone else of violence, then they must still wonder whether it gives an argument to every current and future bully to reach out for violence as a means of achieving someone, any goal. There is no target for which violence is an acceptable means. That is why in the voting day, we will support these amendments to the law, firmly convinced that this is one of the tools that the state authorities will use to defend every citizen of this country from every bully in this country, he has for an excuse for national ideas, for pronunciation of social status and social problems. We do not deny that there are social problems, but the solution for them is certainly not violence. As we do not deny anyone the right to fight for traditional values, to advocate the preservation of what they consider to be value, cultural, national, any other, but not to reach for violent means to achieve it. I repeat again, whoever tries to justify the current or any future violence by correcting an idea or, by falsifying history, what really happened in 2000 and 1996 as violence that leads to today's and future violence, not only trying to justify hate and violence in its own politics, but trying to create a society in which violence will be legitimate. I think it's the responsibility of anyone sitting in this House to fight, regardless of the different ideas we have, against any idea being realized by violent means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-20-0.u45522	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. The work continues tomorrow, Thursday, October 21st, at 12:00 p.m. with the next joint single search. Thank you.
