ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49347	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 8th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the session is attended by 83 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, and there are conditions necessary for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Momo Colakovic, MP Miroslav Markicevic. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 14th item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group – Unique Serbia. Before the opening of the search, I remind you that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of Parliament of People Gordana Komic, Vice-President of the National Assembly to shorten the time to discuss the motion for a decision, i.e. for a shortened procedure. According to Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in a shortened procedure, the total time of the debate in principle search, is 50% of the time set for speakers in Articles 96 and 97. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Starting with this, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - 46 minutes and 48 seconds, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group - 33 minutes and 36 seconds, the G17 parliamentary group plus - 14 minutes and 24 seconds, the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia - 13 minutes and 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's Democratic Party 12 minutes, the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliament Group - Unity Serbia - 9 minutes, the LDP parliamentary group - 7 minutes and 12 seconds, the New Serbia parliamentary group - 5 minutes and 24 seconds, the Parliamentary group of minorities - 4 minutes and 12 seconds and PUPS - 3 minutes. People's MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups have the right to speak once, every two minutes and 30 seconds. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file a statement, and with the order of the Members of Parliament, on the basis of Article 96(4). The admission of the list is until the opening of a single search. I also inform the Assembly that parliamentary groups have so far failed to inform that there will be authorised representatives, i.e. the names of MPs representing the parliamentary group. I remind you once again to file a word complaint. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Branko Ruzic, president of the SPS parliamentary group - JS want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? If you'd like, would you please sign into the electronic system? (No) Whether the parliamentary groups have submitted a list, since none of the parliamentary groups have submitted a list, in writing, with applications for the word of the MPs, and therefore there are no statements on the lists of MPs for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) If not, I conclude a unique search on the draft decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We're moving to the 15th point of the agenda. You have received a summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which was submitted by the Education Committee. You've received a report from the Education Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have a total debate time of 5 hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups of MPs, members of an individual parliamentary group, and that is: a parliamentary group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; a parliamentary group of SRS - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; a parliamentary group of G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; a parliamentary group of SPS - 18 minutes; a parliamentary group of LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; a parliamentary group of New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; a group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask all parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word and with a number of MPs. Word applications will be received on the basis of Article 96 until the time of the opening of a single search. I also inform you that according to this agenda item of the parliamentary group, the following MPs will be: MP Miletic Mihajlovic, MP group of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unity Serbia, MP Zoran Shami, parliamentary group Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Milet Poscurica, MP for Serbia and National MP Nikola Savic, MP for the SRS. I ask that MPs' groups who want to apply for the word do so now because they will not be received after the opening of a single search pursuant to Article 96(4). Anyone else want to hand over the list of speakers? (No) pursuant to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Education, MP Zoran Shami, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? If they want to, please sign in. The People's MP Mileta Pocurica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we need to make a very close list of candidates for the National Educational Council, again with a delay, which is against the Law that we have recently changed and again, with a precise number of candidates, people who have the right to compete by the appropriate promoters. If we look more closely at the amendments to the laws that we have passed, that law meant that these lists contained more candidates than those that were necessarily prescribed as minimum, and would make sense of the discussion and discussion of the candidates that we are conducting here. This way we have an integral list, where exactly how many people are proposed as much as we choose. This means that by failing one of the candidates, the entire list can be questioned. We have an old, political issue that has lasted since we even started reforming higher education, in terms of structure, number, competences, etc., and then the up-to-dateness of these professional regulatory bodies, as is, for example, the National Educational Council. The recent changes have not avoided the observation that the National Educational Council is not in charge of all issues, and that it has border responsibilities with the Council for Expert Education and Adult Education, that in the part of the general programmes must be complemented in its work, and that, under the law, they must agree when they come out with unique and essential content from the dominant area. 54 people will work there, 54 people will come and receive salaries as if they work every day. The salaries are likely to be the rank of MPs, otherwise the most hated salaries in Serbia, with no explanation, as many MPs also travel from southern Serbia to come to work in Belgrade. These people will probably have the same pay and do the job one way or another, more or less responsibly. Generally, both the Council on Higher Education and the Council on Science and Technological Development have been relatively late formed, given the legal obligations. It is an elite body, if you just take the programme of their activities and leave it on the site, as a proposal for future work, let's say, the National Educational Council on Indicators, the need to assess the situation in education, it appears that even though it was written by people, at least half of them have the highest academic titles. They were often inclined to, in writing to us as a suggestion, make amazing language pads. What is going on in this previous project that the team, which we need to make official, should lead to completion and that the work on education reform is finished? How much will it be able to do quality work, how much will be guided by the recommendations of international, above all, European institutions of the same rank, which propose principles, criteria, standards, etc., we will only see this, and in particular regarding the preservation of national personality and national traditions and the right to diversity within what we can and must have the right in the education system. That is why, by discussing this group of people who need to complete and make a formally competent institution of 43 people, I will also talk about the future activity of this council that is undeniable to come. Finally, the public is very interested in what will happen to the reform of secondary education, with the completion of the reform of primary education, with the compulsory introduction of preschool education to the end and where the responsibility in the sustainability system of this educational and educational system is in Serbia. And those who face this job are mostly people who are proposed from the higher education sphere and would prefer, under quotes, a place in this second Higher Education Council. But when the bill was passed, the proposer came up with this relationship between the members of the Committee in the Council, and there is nothing we can do about it right now. That's one big body that needs to discuss very serious matters, even as far as this act is concerned. Why do we doubt it? It's dishonest to tell all the members who are proposed, because we don't know each other personally. We do not know everyone's personal role in previous activities, but some of the names we know are also advocating for the implementation of the Bologna Reform, which has largely been done much more chaoticly than the proposal for work for secondary and primary education and education for this lower level, that secondary and basic educational level of the educational cycle. This team of people then managed to push through the Bologna system of higher education, and everything that happened later was unannounced nowhere. No one could predict how it would take place and today we are where we are, with a wide-ranging democratisation in the work of the university, or university, where only colleges lost democracy and self-determination compared to universities. That's why they had to resort to different tricks, to create more fields, more branches inside of it, to finally create their own universities, to get, Kobajagi, financial independence. This is what is proposed in this proposal for evaluation of the education system, so-called. decentralisation. To what extent it will go further into decentralisation, when otherwise it is the process of appointing management structures in secondary and primary schools, it is significantly decentralised to a much greater extent than it would be natural for colleges in which deans can today be socrealism, in a self-government system to be chosen by having around them the oligarchy of those who will propose them, without any influence from the ministry, and by the means of the state, by means of the budget. We'll have that question, to open up every year at the admission policy. First of all, what we're going to develop is the conditions of enrolment and by law we change, every year, this very proven and very high-quality Bologna way of studying, where 60 points or nothing are being sought, and then we're going to give in to it, whether or not it's going to be this much and so much on the master's studies. Why am I saying that about this point? It's not out of the question, so maybe someone wouldn't think that we'd argue over the replicas about it. The only competences of all these councils and these structures of advisory, management, prognostic, whatever you want to call them, that make policy in the education system at different levels, is that they propose amendments to the law to the ministry. None of these bodies will suggest that in themselves they be reduced, committed to continuous and efficient work. By delivering reports, that's a positive one. Some of the advice we can't even establish many years after the legal obligation, in the field of education and science, I mean these two areas, not to give yet about their work delivery and reports. The National Educational Council despite the pains it had and provided appropriate reports. However, most often on an energetic request from the board to do so, and often in the selection of this body, we were faced with an accident or a time to remind them that the way they organize and work should also bear a certain degree of maturity and certain responsibilities. When we talk about people who are proposed for a list, I said that some of them did not show enough personal academic professional maturity and perception for what will happen to us by introducing an education system, as it was imagined, somewhere signed in 2002, and thus obliged the state to implement it. Although there is also a two-sided and four-sided declaration in Bologna, depending on which variant you find, it is said that the principles of universality must be respected for the sake of academic mobility among countries, just as it states that the tradition in the education system should be respected. Of course there can be no speech then, it stands, when we are now talking about criteria for secondary education, indicators needed to assess the situation in the education system, which will be the issue of this team that will be established and complemented by advice, but we are sure that despite what it is, there are areas where this 'national interest' definition cannot mean much. So we can't do anything medical, pharmacology, in pharmacies, medicine and dentistry, mathematics and physics have something that's a national omen. No national mathematics, no national medicine, but it has national literature, national history, etc. Will, when we have already been able to fragment largely the curricula and programmes to meet the criteria of Bologna, with the complete absence of the interests of those who simply signed the pen move, and later their conversators in this story nowhere unimplemented operational applicability of the system. Now with this story it moves more carefully, it suggests a number of different categories and different models, from the OECD, the EU, the national statistical indicator that the Statistical Office gives, and when a man looks at it, I am grateful to them for coming out with this plan, with a proposal for work, and we see how relatively all of these proposals are relative. We expect that people who are elected, which is likely to happen, in spite of our position, to find some common denominator, not to exhaust too much our offended evaluation system, which, I will use time, to be more convincing and slowly put forward, as anyone imagined, that this key operational task standing before education in Serbia, is followed by the reform of high school, and all kinds of stories are heard about it, the most often insurrections. I can understand some of the inertness of the institutions, so they can rebel against the hinted changes, but only to the extent that these changes will concern them personally, that they will cost them a personal comfort. The comforts cannot be disputed, but about their suggestions, that what has proved to be effective and good, which is tested at our children's international professional competitions, in a system of organising education that all countries, at least non-Western blocs, do not know, as special schools, therefore, special high school – mathematical, language, etc., which produce an exceptional fit. This is another piece of evidence that reforms should go with caution, that people who will not idolatry should be seen as being placed in Serbia to change something at all costs and to make a personal stamp. I'd like to thank some of you on the list for no doubt giving, even by silence, by supporting, like the Horia behind the curtain, what's going on on on stage and letting it pass, without any critical consideration, the Bologna model of schooling, and now they have a chance to show themselves on this plan. This is how indicators to describe the state of education in OECD's first-view education, where criteria, for example, are the impact of educational institutions and the impact of learning, financial and human resources, availability of education, participation and progress and the environment for learning, where you consider, be careful, a sentence of "the amount of time". How does someone who sits in the Council and behaves such high academic knowledge say "the amount of time" or use the word "comparable"? It's really amazing. We have proposed, by definition, how you like to put into laws, as prominent, proven and greatest experts, you even have academics in this. Now both academics and prominent experts from the ranks of higher education institutions, KONUS, will participate in the formation of a lower-ranking programme, rather than in fighting for their own. But, well, that's what we thought and let it go like that, maybe it makes sense. So that's one of the criteria. If you look at EU indicators, what will be displayed through the Lisbon Declaration, the Lisbon Plan, completely other criteria – justice, efficiency, lifelong learning, key competences of young people, modernisation and employment. So that's what he's looking at. There's a whole series that's being named after a terrible internal academic mobility, but some projections are being given. The National Educational Council in the new composition will also have to give projections concerning Serbia itself, what it expects about how many of them will successfully finish high schooling, how many will focus on lifelong schooling, how many partitions will be at the level of the PISA tests, even if the second stage, when Europe gives for PISA tests only the ability to understand what is read to be up to 20% of those who do not reach 80% of those who reach only one segment in the PISA test. We have decent results for our founders who have passed this test in a way that faces a new one, something that may not even be shown to them what it looks like, when the tests are, models, repeated, and the children have studied it better, they will certainly achieve better results, but high school brings them really to one peak, and there doesn't need to go much with the experiment. What's the next model they offered us? It's an enormously specific job that rarely anyone can do for himself and the individual need, and that's very good, to come out with this kind of debate. UNESCO Educational Indicators seem to be the most similar to what our country offers statistical literacy, a degree of literacy, coverage and efficiency of access to how much education is enrolled, funding, a chance for employment. Quite similar to what we're going to have through showing how we see the state of education in our statistical yearbook that really contains those essential elements. So, it finally contains and describes what it has presented to the world as a nation that lays on education, which gives its own kind of seal, say now, to the model of the Eastern education system, absolutely nothing against, and I will always stay on the point that this very model of education has given the largest number of prominent scientists and the largest number of Nobel laureates, of course, provided that we include those immigrants who, learning there, have gone to the western advantage of technology and done their intellectual work, there comes education in the first place, and technology is only transportive, support. As we imagined, these are quite clear criteria that this group of people now intends to divorce to some 50-60 and it will be a galatias. A description of primary and secondary education, pre-school institutions, population structure, the chance of employment, and how much the state invests, therefore, obliges the state on these criteria to see what happens. Of course, for everything that's proposed, what this team of people will have after the election, they're going to look for, and that's a huge paperwork job. With that kind of paperwork we're facing in the health care system because of what's-his-name. reforms, so today most health workers spend hours and hours working with a patient, but next to a computer, working with different forms and papers. I've discussed here that a regular nurse in a dispensary usually has to keep 23 or 24 different records and that it works both therapeutically and advisoryly, etc. What will have to be done in primary and secondary schools, preschools? To answer such a number of questions that statistics could show them, because, finally, it has to start from the base? This is a particular issue, especially the need to multiply the administration, as teachers, mentioned wonders and, in a proposal of scale, will have to spend part of their working time doing statistics and filling out forms. So, that's what they're going to have to wait for, and what the state is now, despite having a strategy that it has brought on this, with regard to the state where the general, declarative, prescribed by the UN Convention, are now the current strategies for the development of adult education and professional development of education and vocational education, etc., which have somehow surfaced, this earlier, MPA, stands and is in the process. We are opening a special question – the interest of the state, and what about the strategy of the nationality? The subscribers of this education system are children. The fact is, we haven't been able to get answers as to why some people are in place, and we haven't asked them to, so that we don't disrupt the right of the promoter and the reason we don't support this composition of the National Educational Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49349	Before I give my word to the next authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the MP's group of New Serbia, by point – The Assembly list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, the agenda of the eighth session of the Second Regular Session, is the National MP Zlata Djeric. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49350	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this list of candidates for the election of the National Council of Higher Education. So my word on behalf of the parliamentary group will be brief, but I am taking the opportunity to underline, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the fact that, after the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, the composition of the National Council for Higher Education is greater, i.e. 21 members compared to the earlier solution of 16, which is a presumption of certainly more quality and competent work of this link in the higher education system, which is very significant. Also, the key and composition of the new National Council is such that it presupposes a more successful and quality work, which I do not particularly want to talk about, given that we talked about this topic when we adopted amendments and additions to the new Law on Higher Education. The fact is that the mandate of the previous Higher Education Council expired on 3 April 2010 and that there was practically a delay in the constitution, i.e. in choosing the new composition of this institution. It can be found, and so did the Education Committee, that there was a delay because the mandated promoters failed to submit their proposals in time. On 18 May 2010, the Education Committee found this and found a solution to continue this old composition until the election of the new National High Education Council. The Committee held a session on 7 December 2010. We had a new situation, given that in the meantime there was an amendment to the Law on Higher Education, which entered into force on 1 July 2010, and that in fact the new law found that the final election of up to 21 members should be made within six months of the entry into force of the new law, i.e. from July 1st to the new year. This fact actually states that, in these new circumstances, with the new law in force, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, we are absolutely in line with the choice of this institution and practically today, in fact in a few days, when we have a vote, we will absolutely select a new composition of the National Council for Higher Education. I would like to say that there have been some MPs' objections, and this also on the Committee's hearing, it may have been or should have been an observation that authorised proposings could have suggested more candidates than that number that was required to be chosen from the structure of those proposings, that actually those full competences had their proposings. The conference, i.e. the Belgrade University Conference Assembly, the state universities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Pazar. One of the representatives is from private universities. Of course, this field is best known to these promoters. In fact, it's not a political decision where we would now have a chance to choose these or those, but rather accept what these competent entities have suggested. We, as a parliamentary group, have no doubts at all about the expertise and competence of the people who are proposed on their behalf for the new composition of the National Council for Higher Education. So it would be the appeal of the SPS-JS parliamentary group to KONUS, in fact, a conference of the Serbian University on time or as soon as possible to propose another, twelveth member, who is proposed from their ranks and who would represent an educational artistic field, or field. So that's where we don't have that proposal. This effectively shapes and selects a new national composition of 20 members and misses this one member, but we hope that KONUS will propose very quickly and that we will have that twenty-first member, i.e. the full composition of the National Council for Higher Education. We hope, from the SPS-JS parliamentary group, that the new composition of the National Council for Higher Education will, in the right sense, fulfil its function, its competence in the best possible way and that, as the law predicted, will make a full contribution to achieving a full competence, a full role in the functioning of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, once again, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will certainly vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49351	Eight minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's Messenger, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49352	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, a very important item of the agenda, and it's a good thing we have a lot of time to discuss. I'm not saying that the DSS is gonna spend all the time, but we're definitely going to say very precisely what we think about this issue. First of all, allow me, I have this need, to do a one-depression thing compared to what happened yesterday in parliament. Let me remind you that yesterday, in about ten or eleven hours of debate, we discussed the matter of the budget, discussed the issue of five laws, following the laws in the budget, and discussed the issue of the Pensions Act. I will remind you that in European Parliaments, whether it is EU member states or not, these issues are being discussed in parliament for weeks. First the committees, then later the parliament. In France, a total of a month recently lasted to discuss pension law, the budget as well. We received the draft budget law on 20 December, with five weeks behind and discussed it in one day with five additional laws, plus the pension law. I must tell you that I am terribly dissatisfied and rescinded, rescinded simply because, along with my colleagues from the DSS, but also with many who sit here, I have been fighting for 20 years to bring democracy into Serbia. I'm getting more and more impressions that, not that we're at the beginning, but that we're underneath the beginning. At the time, the minority, a single-party assembly, during the Slobodan Milosevic regime, had more serious discussions about Serbia's then war budget than we do today. In doing so, we forget that Serbia's budget is not only a private matter of one government or a ruling majority, but that, by the logic of the matter, every MP in this House has the need to adopt such a budget and to pass such a law on pensions that will primarily correspond to the citizens of Serbia. I'm afraid the way we're going, we won't get far. The ruling majority know that there is, unfortunately, a custom to vote whatever pushes them to vote. I'll remind you of a comment on the famous smoking law, which I've heard from the mouth of the ruling majority's representatives, so you're doing one job that's wrong and you're doing it in a way that's dangerous and it's not going to be good anymore. Now let me get back to the agenda. You have received, the Board of Education was only a mailbox in which the proposals of authorised proposings agreed in accordance with the law. All the proposals, of course, have been forwarded to Parliament in order to make the choice of the National Educational Council. I'll remind you, there's a problem, my colleague mentioned earlier, I talked about it on the Educational Council. In fact, I did, as a representative of the Educational Committee, sign a proposal for this item on the agenda, but I actually made a mistake so much that it was the wrong title of the point. It should not be a title – choice, but should be – appointment. I don't see what we have to choose, because no proposaler has proposed more candidates than is elected. To be clear, it was their right. I'll remind you, when we adopted amendments to the Higher Education Act, on behalf of the DSS, I wrote an amendment saying that the proposings must propose a single percentage of the number of candidates to be elected. If it is already the idea of the law that the Assembly chooses the National Educational Council, which I think is justified, then in the right sense the words should be chosen, so before, I agree, the National Educational Council should not be and should not be as a political body, but as a body composed of extremely competent people who enter it based on their competences, i.e. knowledge, merit, wisdom and everything else they have in the domain of education. Unfortunately, the ruling majority did not accept the amendment, and today you are in a position to have a list of 20 candidates, all 20 of whom should be selected. Is that good? It's not good. It's not good that the government didn't propose a wider list, because now there are plenty of reasons to doubt. It was simply in the ruling majority that a settlement was reached, everyone had their pets on that list and they all entered the list of seven, as proposed by the government, and now, based on the vote, again, the ruling majority will be elected. It is not good that the Serbian University Conference has not proposed any more. In doing so, I am not questioning at all individually, nor do I want to discuss the names that were found on this list individually. They're all respected university professors and certainly there's a lot of them at our universities, but I don't see the point of the Assembly making a choice, and yes, in fact, there's nothing to choose from. Otherwise, there's no need, maybe there's a need, I don't know, in this country there's a need for everything, to say how important it is to form a National Educational Council. It's important for a lot of reasons. Our schooling for decades, but unfortunately it's still at very low levels now, with a tendency to be even lower, starting with everything. Take, for example. The education budget, the one you were supposed to talk about yesterday. Last year, we budgeted a seven budget expenditures for education, this year it's eight. So less. In total, it is, however, about seven billion more, but compared to the total expenditure, so on the real value of the dinar, that's less. Next, we face constant attacks on the school system. There are some who have been paid, not by this state, though, that, excuse the expression, are destroying the school system. Now I've read, there's one wise man who said that, for God's sake, European tendencies are such that students in the first four grades of primary school should not learn all four accounting operations, but there are two. He didn't come forward, though. Why is that? I'll tell you why, because our students are more illiterate and the worse they end up in schools, their value, when they're supposed to be hired tomorrow, is going to be less. They'll call and agree to work for less money. Someone is doing this very deliberately, not to say that someone is very intently trying to attack national history, national literature, I agree with Mr. Posukurico, there is no national mathematics, as far as my profession is concerned, everything is further to me. There's a tendency for our schools to fail. The National Educational Council, by the power of its authority, must put an end to the process, because, to be clear, education is a very inert system, a good move of education results in five or ten years, a bad move as well. Unfortunately, we've been exposed to bad moves for decades, and that's why we got where we came from. So education is something that is not a question of one government, one minister, but a question that must be, that there is one general national consensus on what kind of education we want and that, of course, in accordance with our insignificant material possibilities, we try and make such education. Believe me, the cheapest thing is a procedure that is usually carried out by rich countries, which is that every year they buy 100,000 finished students, good students, good experts, it's far cheaper than investing in a system of education, and then they can learn all these other two accounting operations instead of four. Therefore, the need to really create a quality national advice for higher education is, as well as the other one that deals with primary and secondary education, unquestionably and overcomes and must overcome the day-to-day or party frameworks. I'm not sure this kind of system is provided. I'm sorry, I didn't. Of course, if we had a list of candidates that we could say by some of our beliefs -- this is bigger than the other one, then the DSS would participate in that vote. As a matter of fact, when we do not choose the National Educational Council, but by appointing it, we certainly cannot support it. With the apology of the Madam Chairman that I escaped from the topic for four minutes, just to say that this is the DSS position, today we will no longer repeat it, and I would like to conclude this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49353	13 minutes and 50 seconds have been used for the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education. On this subject, regarding education, this assembly has made other important and similar decisions, such as the decision to elect members of the Educational National Council. We have seen that in the last year and a half we have brought about all strategic and important education laws, such as the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on textbooks and teaching means, the Law on Student Standard, etc. From the aspect of the laws relating to government education, the Ministry of Education has done a good part of the job. Now one crucial question is asked – is education in RS better than since we passed these laws and since when have we formed the abovementioned advice, including the one we are now talking about within this agenda? Unfortunately, my answer is negative, to believe that the government, or the Ministry of Education, has done with one sincere goal of improving the level and quality of education in Serbia. We know that today our overall education is increasingly lagging behind modern trends, although we all know that in some not so long ago our education has preceded our education over many education systems, not only in Europe, but also in the world. We had an educational system, which we could be proud of, compared to a large number of countries. What's there? The situation is what it is, and I think it should, and everything must seem to take up the place that belongs to it. I don't want to criticize either the Minister or the Ministry of Education. It's obvious that under these laws they do, but it's not enough yet. There are a lot of things that need to be done parallel to this, so this process can work. We know that education must be treated as the most profitable investment and any different treatment of education from this can bring, and we have seen that it brings great problems to both the state and the people. This was just one introduction, to get back to the basic subject, to get back to the National Education Council. As soon as this list is looked at, it is visible right at the beginning that something is wrong. What's wrong? You can see there's a member of the Higher Education Council missing. The law stipulates that he has 21 members of the Higher Education Council, and we have received a proposal with 20 names. Of course, the Serbian University Conference, which is legally entitled to propose 12 candidates, submitted a list of 11 of its candidates. I'm not going to talk about it yet, and it's visible from this number that the Assembly essentially has nothing to choose from, because when a choice is made, it's between a number of candidates. Not only do we not have more candidates here than we have to choose, but we have fewer candidates, than 21 candidates, we have 20 names, and this assembly in the voting day will only determine what we have received, or what those institutions that have right to do so have. Here I will make one principled remark that I made and when the members of the National Educational Council were elected, and I will do it again within the next two points of the agenda, because they refer to the National Educational Council. When only a superficial view of the list of proposed candidates, when the institutions proposed by these candidates are looked at and the place where these institutions or the place of residence of those candidates are located, the next finding can be seen immediately. Of the 20 candidates, as many as 12 are on the list from Belgrade, four are from Novi Sad, and the rest are four candidates from the rest, or from all over Serbia. One from Nis, one from Novi Pazar, one from Kragujevac, and one from Kragujevac, I don't know where it came from. So 60% of the proposed candidates are from Belgrade, 20% of the proposed candidates from Novi Sad and only 20% of those candidates are from all over Serbia. I don't want to be underprivileged, it's clear to me that it's the National Council for Higher Education, that the largest number of institutions of this type have been located in Belgrade, that Belgrade is Serbia's capital and should therefore have the highest number of candidates. I also understand that the government has no influence on whom it will propose a conference of the University of Serbia, and I understand that the government has no influence on whom the Academy of Professional Studies will propose. I believe the government does not interfere with who will be proposed by the AP Vojvodina, who is entitled to one of his candidates. However, I must say that by law, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing six of its candidates. Within the six candidates the government was supposed to propose, it should take care of the equal representation of Serbia's entire territory to the extent possible. We cannot expect that from Babusnica, Shop, Love, any smaller place in Serbia, we have a member of the National Educational Council for Higher Education, but Serbia is not only Belgrade, except Belgrade in Serbia, there is also the University of Nis, the University of Kragujevac, the University of Novi Sad, the University of Pristina, which is currently located in Kosovo Mitrovica. So the government should represent one corrective factor because it is its primary role, not only here but also in all life spheres. Let's just say, I'm going to set an example of the city I come from. It's known that Nis is a university center. The low university has a long tradition, a university where a large number of top experts and not only in our national proportions, but also in world proportions, and only one member has been proposed from Nis and all of Southeast Serbia. Namely, it is a certain Mr. Prof. Vladislav Stefanovic from the Faculty of Medicine in Nis. I don't want to talk about a man because I don't know enough about his scientific creation, but I believe that the Niski University was right and that he made the right decision when he proposed this gentleman for this council. In addition to Nis, however, the same situation is with Kragujevac, both Kragujevac and the whole area has only one member. In addition to Nis, in some other parts of Serbia there are colleges, higher vocational schools, such as, for example, the Faculty of Technology in Leskovac, there is the Faculty of Teacherry in Vranj, there are some private universities in Zajecar, etc., and in other major places in southeastern Serbia there are almost every place and high schools of vocational studies. For this reason, I believe that there are few people, that a small number of representatives of this council are not only from southeastern Serbia, which in geographical terms covers almost half of Serbia's territory, but also with other parts of Serbia. This is not just the case with this National High Education Council, this is also the case with the members of the National Educational Council, but this is already the next item of the agenda, and I will talk about it when it comes to the agenda. I think the government had to take care of this, because it's the government that has to iron all of this out, be one corrective factor and take care of equal representation, because that's her role.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49355	11 minutes and 10 seconds of the authorized representative's time have been used. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, when it comes to any law, any decision on education, I really cannot be personal, because I come from Somboro, the town that made up the oldest, most famous and perhaps the best teaching school in this part of Europe, and since I was lucky to be one of the students of that school where Ducic himself sang his first verses, then I'm always biased when it comes to education. Respecting the well-intentioned efforts of Mr. Minister leading this resolution, I must say the regret I said yesterday, the finance minister, asking her to pass it on, to resent him for not being in the government, or at the government sessions where the little, little, louder war on the budget was waged, he was bold enough, he was rude enough to steal more money for his portfolio, and it was mentioned today, that for the Ministry of Education, which has always suffered and which for decades suffered every restrictions and savings, he had to spend more money in this budget for many reasons. Education is the headquarters of society. It's not in this government. It's not a government issue. The state of education and education is a matter of national policy, national strategy, the interest of all. Today we are talking about an institution, a higher education council institution, and the start of all institutions doesn't start with their establishment in this home, doesn't start with ideas in various ministries, doesn't start to control various other institutions of their work. The establishment of institutions, their validity, their credibility begins in education. I'm going to remind you that there are three worldly professions, that's the judge, the doctor and the teacher. In serious countries, these are people who have special protection of the state. Let me just say that in America all other professions are constantly uncertain, but teachers in America are protected. I'm not going to say anything special about the standard of educators, it would be a little degutant, but it really takes care of that, although all the people who opt for education, it's always been like that, weren't guided by material acquisitions, but were guided by their desire and by their own own self-recognition to deal with this sublime mission. I personally have great respect for anyone who is defined at any time to be in that profession, in this profession survives and maintains the integrity and integrity of this extraordinary profession. What my second grudge to Mr. Minister is because he let this delay happen, because I see that the Committee has put this as a serious offense. Says – The Committee has concluded that there has been a delay in selecting new members of the council with the guilt of the authorised promoter. So, one thing shouldn't have happened, but it happened and it won't cause any catastrophic consequences in society, fortunately. So it's a technical grudge that can be put on. What my colleague Shami said, perhaps he should have heard and adopted his amendment when it was deciding on this very amendment to the Law on Higher Education and that the Assembly now plays a congregation role in choosing a member, because in this way, I insist on this termological precision, so we do not choose. Here we're either going to name or we're going to adopt a proposal, but we don't choose anyway. So this item of the agenda is in some sense a fake, we don't choose, we can only appoint or give consent to what is proposed, without questioning any of the biographies that are before us, the candidates offered, no matter what we recognize a little party arrangement. Certainly all the candidates on the lists, whether they're party or not, have much more impressive personal and scientific biographies behind them that recommend them for this place. I am very glad to be able to tell the Serbian public that we as a people have really many people, many scientific names that could have been found on this list and that the choice certainly, for all those who opted for it, was very difficult, with various motives managed. There's a list in front of us that's not even complete. There's a name missing and we'll probably have another agenda point where we can talk about this. Respecting the importance of the institutions, respecting the importance of this institution, I expect it to fulfill its role and its mission to the end in this society, to meet our expectations, to further improve Serbia's education, not to devastate various projects, various educational adventurers who are here and there in education. Through all these turbulent events, education has managed to preserve itself the most. At least she was devastated. She managed to save her most of her role. Education didn't fail much. She didn't give in much to corruption either. They're in the education, as I said, of people ordering missions. What I'm referring to as a suggestion is to pay attention to it, and for years it's not paying attention, to the importance of student and student competitions, and to the importance of working with talented children, that on behalf of them, it must be beaten by the Government for greater means, because only with greater resources can it be possible for them to confirm their values, and then to have a safe resource from which we will be able to draw such personnel and even better personnel as we have today on the list in front of us. That's what the ministry's obligation is. Ministers of Education through history are remembered. There are only two resolutions that people remember through history, and these are finance ministers and ministers of education. It's also a kind of mission that can't be forgotten. When there are various turmoils in the government, various trades and various announcements as is now happening and announces that the government will be reconstructed, the number of ministries will be reduced, and some ministers are threatened to join some ministries in three or four, the minister of education and finance can be carefree. These are the ministries that will surely survive because their mission is much older than the current political will, current political interests and current political agreements that are on the scene. What is very important, and I ask Mr. Minister not to forget, is the defence of national interests and national values, the construction of a future state policy is being built in institutions he leads, not in political parties, because there is only one political view of the world, current, very narrow, and in schools in higher education institutions there is one state view and one future for both this and every society. Before we did, the Chinese said a great wisdom, that the army was learning how to use weapons. We've recently put the army into a different plan, since there's not much we're going to learn anymore, but at school he's learning against who. It's a far more important mission of a school and the future of a nation. I thank the Minister for listening to all suggestions, and I know that he will be well-intentioned about everything and will continue to decide and work, and I ask him only in the name of this vast army of educators, in the name of a huge army of children waiting for education to really take care of every interest, and now that we are extracting ourselves to the world economic crisis, the Ministry of Education has the credibility to slap a fist on the table and say – he will not be able to endure the general state, the general tightening of the belt. She's always put up with it. To get out of the crisis, it's time to invest a lot more in education and its institutions. It's the only way, not in foreign companies, not in private pockets, but in education and education. That's where the people who can be luscians and progress and get out of every crisis sits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49357	Nine minutes have been used by an authorised representative. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until the opening of a single search for a word in writing, with the order of MPs submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. The first registered speaker is MP Goran Mihajlovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, citizens of Serbia, today, within this 15th item of the agenda, we are discussing a summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council. For the sake of memories, I will say that this law on higher education was adopted in this home in September 2005 and that according to the provisions of that law, the constitution of the National Educational Council, which numbered 16 members, was scheduled to deal with the higher education strategy in RS. April 3rd. In 2006, 15 of the 16 members were elected, and the 16th member, Dr. Oscar Kovac, was elected on 19 July 2006, so that the election established a council, according to the provisions of the original law. The election lasted four years and expired on 3 April 2010. However, the legislator was late with the lists of candidates and we decided at the meeting of the Education Committee to extend the mandate to several months until the election of new members, and in the meantime, it is also important to remind the citizens of Serbia that on July 1st of this year, the Higher Education Act was amended, so instead of 16, the Council is scheduled to number 21 members and the structure would be the next – 12 members of the Council give so-called. KONUS, a Serbian University Conference, gives two members the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, six members are given by the government and one body of the AP Vojvodina. 20 members have been proposed from these 21st to now. So one of the members hasn't proposed CONUS yet. The problem is that this body should deal with the education strategy in RS, not with some ongoing problem that is within the ministry's jurisdiction. If you remember, the SRS parliamentary group has repeatedly criticised the National Council of Serbia for not giving an annual report on its work, so it was somewhat corrected and we received a report from the National Council this year, but it was more like a chronology of the events and activities of the Council, and there was no main education strategy in RS. If someone were to wonder what a short, medium- and long-term education strategy in RS is, I don't know who could answer that question, because it's something that we don't have and what the National Council in the new assembly would have to deal with very seriously. That document, the education strategy, and how it's missing. However, in order not to speak now what previous speakers have already said, I will point out two other problems that I consider very important, which the National Council has never done before, at least there have been no reports. These are scientific and artistic works in the Republic of Serbia and a higher education institution founded by the Republic of Serbia, which operate on the territory of the province of KIM. Regarding this scientific and artistic work in Serbia, I would say that in our republic, there is currently less and less real scientific and research work in higher education institutions, and more and more of its imitations are growing. Practically, no more cooperation between these institutions with the economy. No wonder, because there is almost no economy in the state of Serbia anymore. You see, scientific and research work slowly dies away, normally, thus dropping one of the basic activities of higher education institutions. Which certainly doesn't belong to any of us. The Republic of Serbia annually sets aside for scientific and research work, perhaps about 10m euros, while the world's leading states single out a hundred times more and with the wave of large corporations participate in funding this scientific and research work. It's another area where we're so raggedly behind the world. The National Council, in practice, has never mentioned in its reports this problem that is becoming a burning problem in the area of higher education. For the sake of illustrations, I will tell you that according to official data in Serbia, 0.3% of gross domestic product stands out, and the government has adopted a strategy to make this separation 1% of gross social product by 2015. That means we need bigger investments in this area, and we also need human education on these principles. I will tell you one thing, in this report submitted by the Government, the document is called the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2015, on page 6 literally writes – Serbian science has reached and has reached neighbours by the number of publications. Now I would ask myself, did the number of published works measure the scientific development of a country? This way we're just fooling ourselves into doing scientific work. You see, it all came down to editors and various managers of various magazines simply chasing patients who will publish papers in their magazines and pay expensive quotations and commissions for publication, regardless of whether the work is really valuable and has some scientific weight. It seems that with us it all comes down to what is simple – pay for the registration more, you are a larger scientific worker. As a result, the SRS has one concrete proposal that the National Educational Council, in collaboration with the Ministry of Education, performs a single editing of this area and that the list of journals that would publish works that would have a certain weight. This is very easy to implement because a member of the 27th current Higher Education Act prescribes educational and scientific and educational fields within which study programmes are implemented. I'll remind you, these fields would be natural mathematical sciences, socio-humanistic, medical sciences, technical and technological sciences and art. So you should list certain magazines within each field, which would have a certain weight. Then people who do scientific work could publish in these magazines, not that, as I said, they pay too expensive quotations to fool themselves into doing scientific work. Another problem I'd like to point out is higher education institutions, the founder of which is the Republic, which operate in KIM territory. For the sake of reminders, I'll tell you that UN Security Council Resolution No. 1244, the government of the Republic of Serbia maintained all rights and obligations over the work of these institutions. These institutions today act either as universities within the University of Pristina, with Kosovo Mitrovica's temporary headquarters, or as higher schools of vocational studies at KIM. Why did I decide to bring this up today? Simply, as a member of the KIM Assembly Committee, I have an obligation to convey to the citizens of Serbia the views recently expressed by a group of KIM citizens on this committee. A good part of it was about education. I think the National Council for Higher Education will also have to deal with these problems. We all know that the situation of Serbs in Kosovo is extremely difficult, but it is not the same for those living north and those living south of the Ibar River. Those who are south of the Ibar River live in enclaves. They're people who face all kinds of problems. First of all, with the issue of IDs by Kosovo authorities, with no recognition of school diplomas. It is normal that the state of Serbia cannot recognise high school diplomas with the seal of the self-proclaimed Kosovo Parade. In this way these people become marginalized and discriminated in all areas, as well as in the field of education. In some ways they become apathrides, i.e. people without citizenship in their own country. They kind of asked us to take the first next session, and I think today's the topic is to bring these problems out. It is certain that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must treat them as a very sensitive social group and ease their education conditions and all other conditions for those who rule in the Republic of Serbia. I would have one concrete suggestion, that, on some next occasion, when the amendment or addition of the Law on Higher Education is done again, we should pay much more attention to this problem. Article 109 of the current law, which prescribes higher education institutions from the KIM territory, is very vague and concise, so it should be complemented by some concrete and precise provisions. In the opinion of us from the SRS, this should necessarily be one of the future tasks of the National Educational Council when it is established and elected by this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49359	11 minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. After him, MP Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have what's called the Numerus Clause at the University. We have one closed number of names the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia needs, conditionally speaking, to choose as members of the National Council for Higher Education. As my esteemed colleagues have noted, the National Assembly will not actually make the right and full selection of members of the National Educational Council, or the National Council for Higher Education, but is in a position to either receive or reject that summary list proposed by the authorised institutions. There's no real choice here. That possibility that the National Assembly really chooses between the number of candidates that is greater than the number of candidates to be elected, there will be no possibility. Its ability to choose is rather narrowed down, or legally speaking, to the autonomy of the political will of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when electing the National Council for Higher Education, will be practically reduced to a minimum. As for the candidates on this collection list, if you look at their biographies, the less all of these biographies are impressive. They contain information about people who really know science, that is, the art they are dealing with. It is hardly possible to object to any of these candidates, even if we remember the wise sayings of English political philosopher Thomas Hobbs, that in fact they are real history and there is no other than a résumé, or biography, then we can really say that candidates for members of the High Council for Higher Education are good. I just have to stop by one name, not because its scientific, or professional activity is problematic, but because it was his problematic activity, as former Minister of Education of the Republic of Serbia, it is Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Gašo Knezevic tried to implement a concept of higher education reform in 2001 and 2002. A draft law on higher education, which was quite sharply criticised in Serbia's scientific and professional public, especially among people engaged in university education in Serbia. Gašo Knezevic, though a doctor of legal science, remained remembered in this educational history of Serbia as a man who made one solution, so one administrative act, a single legal act, in which he did not invoke the law, but called for the bill. To say this, a student who passed the administrative exam would hardly pass the exam, but Gašo Knezevic gave himself the right to call, in one individual legal act, not on the law, but on one draft of the law, in some ways even question his credibility, as a future member of the National Council for Higher Education in the rule of law. Otherwise, the way he led the Ministry of Education does not recommend Mr. Gaš Knezevic to be a member of the National Council for Higher Education, because I think Serbia's law schools have much more quality personnel for this reputed institution, after all, have non-compromised personnel. You will hardly convince anyone in Serbia today that Mr. Gašo Knezevic, as former minister of education, i.e. Minister of Education in the first Djindjic government, until the formation of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, was therefore not the happiest solution. Even his party colleagues, even those who politically supported the government, had major objections to the work of Gasa Knezevic, as minister of education. I must remind you that in the 2002 draft of the 2002 University Law, there were a number of provisions that simply could not be implemented in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. They were used, but in the authentic, original version, some English expressions and the 2002 Draft Law on University were actually prescribed the concept of higher education applied at American private universities, or universities, and therefore the whole process, i.e. the attempt to reform higher education directed by Mr. Gaša Knezevic, failed. What is also the impression of the SRS, when it comes to this closed list of candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education, is that people from the world of natural, technical and medical sciences are mostly dominated here. It cannot be taken away from the impression that people from the world of social, or humanistic sciences will be neglected in the work of the National Council for Higher Education. I don't think that's an accident. If you do a deep analysis of the Law on Higher Education, which was brought by the National Assembly back in 2005 and which was repeatedly changed and supplemented, you will see that the concept of the Law on Higher Education is primarily written in those colleges dealing with natural, technical and medical sciences, and that very often in its application there is a problem when it comes to social, or humanistic colleges. Why is that? Probably because the draft law on higher education was largely dominated by experts in the order of natural, technical and medical sciences. I don't think such a concept of higher education reform is good. Of course, in no way do I want to question the importance of either natural, technical, nor medical sciences for the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia, far from that, these teachings are both necessary and necessary, but one convincing domination of experts in these areas, and one visible neglect of people in the fields of social, or humanistic sciences. I'm afraid the National Council for Higher Education will create a technocrat institution that will not be ready enough to meet the challenges set before colleges dealing with social and humanistic sciences. Why do I say that? Because after five years of adopting the Law on Higher Education, it became clear that many of its provisions were simply not implemented in practice until the end and that everything that was announced as an important paper in the Law on Higher Education simply did not come true. I don't know if Minister of Education Mr. Zarko Obradovic has the data on how fluctuating students are between the university in Serbia and the law school outside the Republic of Serbia. I doubt it's big. It's mostly about students who come back from the order of natural, technical and medical sciences, and it's a much smaller fluctuation of students who come from these colleges dealing with social and humanistic sciences. This is kind of understandable because, as Mr. Shami noted, there are sciences that are nationally defined. You know, the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is national. It is hard for a student studying law school in Serbia to learn something about Finland's legal system and to return to Serbia and be a good lawyer in Serbia. National history is once again something that is, by definition, national. The Serbian language is something that is, by definition, national. So, there's a whole series of sciences, there's a whole series of scientific disciplines where the fluctuation of students at European and global level just doesn't make much sense, of course, unless you want to learn in some more efficient and faster way some foreign language, but that's already something that's problematic. After five years of the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, I think it is high time to ask the question – is the concept so-called. high education reforms according to Bologna principles have succeeded or failed? The deep belief of the SRS is that the concept has absolutely failed, that the Republic of Serbia is too fast, too sudden and without much thought has entered the whole project and now, after five years, we can see quite the sad results of this reform. In fact, if we ignore this daily-political verbalism about having to join the EU, we have to respect Euro-Atlantic integration processes, etc., which is the basic criterion to determine whether a school is good or not, by the quality and degree of knowledge it provides to its students and students. Did we have a high school and university system that was good? I think we did. Did our schools and colleges provide a broad range of knowledge to students and students? They did. Was there anything in this beauty of knowledge that was unnecessary, something that really burdens young people? It was. What he's burdening really should have been rejected. I'm afraid we, as Francis Bacon would say, threw dirty water and a healthy child. We now have a whole series of high schools, especially colleges, which is a much greater danger, which are reportedly educated by young people in Serbia and these young people are getting diplomas from higher education institutions, but the degree of their knowledge is quite small and their knowledge is practically unusable or very little usable in any institution in the Republic of Serbia. You know, it's incomprehensible for me that a student at law school anywhere in Serbia is studying constitutional law in one semester in the first year. Constitutional law is a capital scientific discipline for lawyers. Imagine a young man from 18 to 19 coming to law school, in confusion, in chaos, doesn't know what the state is, or what the law is, and it takes for a semester to master constitutional law. That's impossible. He can overcome the opening remarks from constitutional law. That's the problem. You have as many examples as you want. For two semesters, constitutional law cannot be handed over and that the student really knows the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia without speaking of comparable constitutional systems. So two semesters isn't enough, let alone one semester that lasts from about two and a half to three months. These are all the consequences of the reform by the concept called the "bolon process". What did the students get with the bologna process? We could see that a few days ago. They got that they now have to pay very high tuition for their studies, that many ministers in the current government of Serbia, that many MPs, and I include my indifference, had to pay for their higher education. I don't think most of us would have a degree in any college today, simply because we wouldn't be able to pay those tuitions. Today, young people are forced to pay pretty high tuitions, which are absolutely incompatible with neither their nor their parents' standards. The problem facing the Ministry of Education is one flood of so-called private universities. In that area, the state has absolutely failed to seduce any order. The process of accreditation of higher education institutions, which was meant to be strict, to really determine whether there are elementary standards for the implementation of the scientific and educational process at these higher education institutions, proved to be one pro form of procedure, which ends in five, ten or fifteen minutes, completes the necessary forms and, of course, such higher education institutions are authorised to work. The real quality of these higher education institutions is on a pretty low level. This is where people who no one lives in Serbia's scientific clarity are handed over to you, they haven't heard. There's regular teachers of people who don't have any more quality textbooks behind them. Not even a high-quality scientific paper. Ask the dear god where they've acquired master's, or doctoral titles. I don't want to say they're all like that, but if there are any, I think the minister will agree to that, too. You have colleges that are meaningless by their name. That's what I've talked about many times. In Novi Sad, until, I mean, two years ago, you had a college called the University of Directors. What kind of title does a young man who graduates from the school of directors get? He's a graduate director. That means he can't do any other job tomorrow than be the director. Tell me, what civilised, well-organized state does it have? There's nowhere to go. It's in the Republic of Serbia. So, the Higher Education Act, which was supposed to set high standards, so that a higher school institution could function at all, passed the exam because the accreditation procedure was sloppyly implemented, unconsciously. Were there any cases of corruption? That's not what I want to get into, let the authorities deal with it, but there's an indication that it is. I can't understand that a work permit is obtained by an allegedly high school facility where a class is performed on beer crates, in sheds of some, in abandoned warehouses, etc. There are only such phenomena in the Republic of Serbia. There are no such phenomena in the countries of the RS environment, and the highly developed countries of the West are not even talking. So I think the time has come and the SRS is deeply convinced that the state should face the problem of the poor Law on Higher Education and even worse consequences of its application. We must acknowledge to ourselves that the concept of university reform, according to the so-called Bologna Declaration, did not give the expected results, that the Republic of Serbia has entered the whole process too quickly, even faster than some countries that have far richer university history and tradition than Serbia. I don't want to talk about the case of France, Belgium, England, etc. So it is clear that something is wrong with the concept of higher education in Serbia. Clearly, we have made it too easy to give up some good traditions in high school education. Our university was good. Our university has trained people who could have calm souls as experts on all the meridians of the world, and today that's not the case anymore. We today have an attempt to bring young people in Serbia down to a very cheap workforce, to have as few really and essentially highly educated people as possible, and also to have very few highly educated people as possible from the field of natural and technical sciences, and preferably that when these people get their diplomas in our colleges they leave Serbia and then instead of their process of education benefiting from the Republic of Serbia, the United States will have the United States, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Australia, Canada, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49361	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who did not exercise the right of Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49362	Dear fellow MPs, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic and other members of the delegation, I have a need to say a few words on the agenda item discussed today, but also on several issues raised during this public debate. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed the proposal for candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education, on a proposal from the Committee on Education. I would like to say a few words to the team, i.e. to answer specifically the questions raised in relation to the proposal, i.e. the way in which the candidates are elected. First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Committee, Mr Shami, as well as the other members of the Committee for the speed of response and for understanding the importance of putting this issue on the agenda of the Committee's session, because if it were not for that we would have some procedural problems related to the discussion and adoption of this proposal. Secondly, I cannot thank the previous members of the National Council for Higher Education, because practically in a few days with the election of new members, a significant number of members from the previous call will cease to work, although there will be those who will continue to work in the new assembly, which is good because there will be one continuity in the work of the Council, which is extremely significant given all those tasks that the National Council for Higher Education has and which legislation provides. Third, one of the colleagues mentioned that the Assembly had no opportunity to consider hearing the president of the National Council for Higher Education. I must tell you that Professor Srdjan Stankovic had expressed his wish, at least through me personally, to be there when he considered the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education. I informed the Secretary of the Committee about this, but I was informed that it was not intended to be discussed, so his presence in this case would be a surplus. Thirdly, around the time, if you look at the transitional provisions of the amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted, it seems to me, June 28th, which came into force on July 1st, it says that the existing National Council on Higher Education continues to work until the election of new ones, and that the election will take place within six months of the moment the law began to apply. Therefore, we have proposed these candidates within a certain period, and I think that we have respected the deadlines, and in particular the National Council for Higher Education has really worked, so that respect for the law has not led to any problems in the work of the National Council for Higher Education. The fourth thing to be put up as an objection is whether the Assembly will choose or appoint. Indeed, the law stipulates in Article 10 that the Assembly chooses members of the National Council for Higher Education, but we have had one effective situation - that KONUS has proposed as many members as it is necessary to choose, or one less, because in the elections in CONUS one proposed member did not receive support. Correction works, I won't mention his name, but the fact is that out of 12 members, CONUS has proposed 11 members. He could've done more, but they've defined themselves to suggest that number. I have to say that's their right, because by law they are the proponents of it. Don't get me wrong, but it wouldn't make sense that the government is now giving more candidates than it's being chosen, because in a certain way it would be a public message that there is no unity in the government around the candidates that the government is proposing, and since the government has a unity of candidates who are proposing, it's quite logical that we propose the number that it chooses. Any other message would be, objectively, one political mistake or, as basketball players say, an attack error. I have no reason to do that, so we suggested this number being dialed. When you look at the structure of the proposed members, you'll see that there are, among these 20 proposed candidates, people who really have impressive scientific biographies, from different educational arts fields. There's a field of natural mathematical science. A colleague Martinovic is right, there are more than others, but it is a structure that has also been established on KONUS. It's from socially humanistic sciences. I must mention that from the economy of Kovac, Janićevic, Jokić, Knezevic, Ikodić, philologist Grubačić, politician Jovanovic, technical colleges: Janacković, Nedočin Bukočić, Matavulj, medicine: Costa Stefanović, again artistic: Dara Matic Marović. So in this structure of the proposed, by what is part of their interest, we really have people with impressive biographies that practically cover all these artistic and educational fields that will be the subject of the work of the National Council for Higher Education. On the other hand, we can absolutely be satisfied. It seems to me that we've done everything we need to do to get a high-quality National High Education Council. Allow me, given that there were no other significant objections regarding the National Council for Higher Education, let me also say a few words about what respected colleagues have mentioned in the debate as a possible problem. First of all, no offense to fellow Members, there have been some exhibitions, as I would say, mixed understanding of the number and contents of members of the National Educational Council and the National Council for Higher Education. The National Educational Council has 43 members, the National Council for Higher Education 21, we will give them 20, later the Assembly will declare 21. I have already spoken with Professor Kovacevic, the president of KONUS, to elect another member, so the assembly will declare this. There was also a question about their financial compensation. According to the Law on Higher Education, which you have, the compensation of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which we are discussing, is determined by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the competent committee. So, the National Assembly has the power to make a decision about it, so I don't think we're going to have any problems here, because the National Assembly is going to do what needs to be done and then we're going to avoid any possible problem. We respected all other areas. Let me say something. I can't say, I think some colleagues, I don't know if Professor Shami mentioned it or anyone else, that education is an area in which he invests, and the results, and positive and negative, come only after a few years. We are in a situation, the government and I as ministers, to face something that was a consequence of work, with the intention of changing for the better, not saying anything negative about the time before, since there will certainly be those things that are both positive and negative in relation to what we are doing, but the fact is, in the last two and a half years, we have managed to raise the education system, and I absolutely leave it to you to judge, to a significantly higher level and to do things that and how they improve the education system. When it comes to pre-university education, I can't help but say a few words. I'll remind you that we have about a million and 200,000 students and about 150,000 employees. We have one huge system, we're most of that public area. Simply, there are many open issues in this system, many problems, and we are trying in a systematic way to bring these open issues down to the least possible extent, to solve problems and to improve the quality of the education system. I will remind you, since it is pre-university education, that my colleague Poscurica has spoken to several other colleagues, and I will return to higher education, that we have a situation for pre-school education to be implemented in 159 pre-school institutions, i.e. 2,364 separate departments, that basic education is carried out in 1213 schools, 1205 state and eight private, secondary education in 559 schools, 521 state school and 38 private secondary schools. In total, 383 schools are secondary schools, 129 are high schools and 47 are art schools. I will remind you that we have adopted four strategic laws: the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Law on Preschool Education and Education, the Law on textbooks and other educational means and the Law on student and student standards. What we wanted to achieve in these laws, since there have been objections and questions about it today, is to achieve positive results in three dimensions of education: in equality, in quality and efficiency. Our strategic goal is that as many children as possible are covered by education, that the quality of education is as good as possible and that they come out with as much knowledge as possible, that at any level of the education system or their lives they decide to engage in the world of work or to continue schooling, so that they can do so in the best possible way. When we passed the Law on Preschool Education and Education, we adopted legislative solutions that represented a modern response to the needs of life, which was in line with both the Constitution and national legislation and strategies, but also with ratified international conventions and international standards, because we came from the needs of the child, from its developmental, educational, cultural, health, social needs, of course and children and families. When we passed the Law on textbooks and other teaching tools, for the first time we had arranged a significant area, which had not previously been regulated in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Student and Student Standard established additional conditions, in terms of student and student standards. We've established other things by other laws. I'm saying all this to make you have any hurry, and I can't help but tell you everything that's been mentioned. Why? When you look at the results, I now come to what my colleague Martinovic mentioned, for this short time how many laws are in place, the fact is that these laws had a positive effect on the education system of the Republic of Serbia, because compared to preschool education and education, compared to 32% of children in 2003, this year that percentage was over 47%. That doesn't mean we're satisfied, but it's the fact that it's increased. Of course, a significant contribution to this goal is the previously introduced obligation of a preschool prep programme for all children prior to school. The other day, I had a conversation with the Union of Teachers and the president of the Teachers' Union told me that there was a significant improvement, i.e. raising the quality of children who are part of the preschool prep programme, that she would say a lot, with greater quality, they enter the primary school and show far better results than generations ago. Of course, preschool prep programs and primary education are mandatory and free of charge for all children. I have to mention that - free of charge. Last year, we started with the realization of a free textbook project. In the previous year we provided free textbooks for 160,000 students, this year there will be a third grade. The final goal is for all primary school children to receive free textbooks, with a part of free schooling. We have improved the availability of education by introducing the Internet into all schools. Next year we'll have an information department in all primary schools. So over 1,200 schools. We're left with high school, and that's what we're gonna do. Of course, the equality in education has been improved through the process of inclusion – involving children in regular classes, but also the possibility of vocational education in specialised schools, with special attention being paid to vulnerable social groups with low social status and Roma. When it comes to Roma, we have taken a number of affirmative measures and actions for functional Roma education, from enrolment in high school and college, protection against discrimination, etc. Special advisers are appointed in education, which are responsible for improving Roma education. The entry of Roma children into preschool institutions has been increased. A model was developed for the introduction of Roma assistants into schools. Currently 179 pedagogical assistants, of whom already 55 worked in schools, completed the training process and became involved in the work of preschool institutions. When it comes to secondary education, reform of secondary vocational education, we introduced 63 new educational profiles into 222 secondary schools. These profiles are the product and need of the market for professional staff, but also the provision of the necessary level for further education. As for the reform of high school education, we want to ensure in this section the best knowledge necessary to continue further education when it comes to university education. When it comes to quality in education, it is envisaged to introduce a final exam at the end of compulsory or primary education, the introduction of a general professional degree, a specialist graduate exam, etc. We have seen that we are planning a small graduation, that we are gradually increasing the number of unknown tasks and that in a peaceful, evolutionary way we are introducing a newspaper that will objectively be revolutionary compared to what we have so far. But it's part of the law. Of course, we'll also work on adult education. We've prepared a draft law on adult education. It will be a very quick subject of public debate, because we want to create legislative conditions for adult education and to address informal education and additional vocational education and the issue of lifelong learning, that simply for all people, especially those who are unemployed, socially endangered, disabled and vulnerable groups, refugees, people who have lost their jobs in the transition process, workers without qualifications or people who are underqualified and who are in the third age, we allow one personal development and existence to be achieved through education. Why am I saying all this? It's been two and a half years since this government started working. We had an interesting situation, that we were constantly criticizing both when and when we shouldn't. But it's part of the work we do and it's part of public life and political life in Serbia. Now, an interesting thing has happened, on December 8, this year, which is very indicative of the public's attitude towards education. In fact, Serbia has accepted the obligation, most of it knows, perhaps a small part of it does not know, to be part of the OECD's 74-nation PISA test, and which objectively wanted us to or not, the measure checks the quality of the country's education system. We were doing this test in 2003, 2006 and 2009, we will also work in 2012, and it is interesting that, as the minister who entered the service in 2008, July of the month, by the will of this National Assembly, I was repeatedly asked about the results of 2006, which were published in 2007, which we were objectively unable to influence, always with this negative sign – nothing was done, here, PISA tests, nothing. You can explain such a situation as much as you want – that there is no complementarity of education systems, that the structure of tasks is different, that teaching is performed in one way, that the method of teaching is different, that teachers may not be so familiar with the curriculum and program, etc. But it's a measure of quality. In 2009, in preparation for the PISA tests, we organized an international conference here. We invited people from the OECD, from a directorate who's working with the PISA tests, we hired several hundred teachers, we printed the tests from 2006, at an international conference we shared these tests with teachers, we asked them to do tests from February to April, when the tests were done, that these tasks work, and what's the result? The results were performed on 8 December this year. First I'm going to say this negatively that everyone's talking about, and then I'm going to say a positive thing that nobody or anyone else is going to mention. It is true that we are not at the level of rank or places of countries doing PISA tests to improve our place, we may have even fallen down, but it is interesting that this second part, which is not mentioned by anyone, and as Minister of Education, I have an obligation to mention it to you here. Apparently, good news isn't news that's interesting to the general public, unless there's something negative. It is interesting, for example, that Serbia is thanks to this little effort, but above all to the involvement and knowledge of students, so that there is no mistake, that we take over part of the credit that belongs to others, means, students and teachers, but also we in the Ministry of Education have done one essential thing – we have created an atmosphere to do, to learn, to solve the problem by bringing people from the OECD, from the Directorate, we have shared tests and we have insisted that the education of students be done to carry out tests. It is interesting that in reading literacy Serbia has made progress of 41 points, that it is functional literacy, it seems to me, by 28 points we have increased, in mathematical literacy seven points and in scientific literacy seven points. In these ten years since the PISA tests were conducted at OECD level, there has been no country showing such progress between the two cycles. Otherwise, people who deal with this topic say that, as a rule, progress is confirmed when seven points are reached. We did it in mathematical and scientific literacy, and in reading 41 points, with reading literacy being essential, because it is actually the basis for the development of this second one. What does that show? When we face the problem, when we enter its solution, we create an atmosphere when it's no longer a bauk, but something that can be solved, then a good result can be achieved. We have reduced the backlog compared to Slovenia and Croatia, where this deficit has been far greater before. Also, we have increased our advantage over Bulgaria and Romania, which are EU members and we are not satisfied. I have to say, we're not satisfied. But the fact is that we have made this progress and few people, with the exception of President Tadic, have remembered to say at least one nice word about it. Why am I saying this? There is no respect, co-workers and colleagues, progress in Serbia and in the education system until education becomes essential to all values and quality measures and something to pay attention to. Only when education is so understood in everyone, will our request that not only be allocated to more money, but that those who are of quality should be valued as such be real. He often complains to us, sometimes rightfully and sometimes not, that we don't have a quality education system. From the point of view of the whole, it's true. There are things we need to change. But when you look at things inside that system, our mathematicians, physicists, astronomers, scientists have won over 400 medals in the last four years. It's not possible that there's no quality without being so successful. On the other hand, it is said that higher education is not good. It is true that changes should be made globally, and there is a colleague, Martinovic, right. However, I have not heard that any foreign university disowns our students who graduate from higher education here, or some international company. On the contrary. They are highly esteemed experts, they are acknowledged and no one question the content of what is being taught here. But we need to work to raise the level of education. I think we're on the right track. The other day, the National Educational Council set out the course of development of education. I have to tell you, 43 members of the National Educational Council, maybe someone wasn't there, unanimously adopted those developmental directions, and right now we have an analysis of the situation, which are problems and how to solve it. It's up to us now just to sort these things out over a long period of time. Dear colleagues, we need to affirm the value of education and teach the children to learn. Why do I say that we should teach our children to learn? We have a completely paradoxical situation with us. The example of London is mentioned. That's where students demonstrate because scholarships increase three times. In London, students demonstrate because the state's tuition spending is being reduced. We, as part of what we have, increase the number of students on quotas, meet the reduction of points, increase the number of test deadlines – and students demonstrate. Something doesn't make sense. This is where it's being demonstrated because the conditions are increasing or the tuition is increasing, and what about us? Of course, you can always find the right answer for one or the other. The question arises that the state always makes laws of general character where not everyone can meet. Why? We finance about 60% of university students at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We're funding basic studies. We finance master studies and for the first time in the history of higher education we finance doctoral studies. Here, yesterday we realized that 2,120 students of doctoral studies, 660 are those financed by the state and that's something. I personally think that in these conditions of the economic crisis and in the situation where we are, that this is one good thing. Someone asked the financial question. Dear colleagues and colleagues, things are like this. We received 11.4.47,000,000 in the budget of the Republic of Serbia this year. This is compared to last year, i.e. budget rebalance is higher by 5,770,000,000. It's not everything we asked for. But interestingly, yesterday we came to a knowledge, the average structure of the Ministry of Education in the structure of the budget of other OECD countries is 13.26. Our Ministry of Education in the structure of this budget is participating with 13.95. So, about 14%, we're something bigger. The problem, however, is that we have not invested more significantly in education over a long period of time. That's why, of course, we have certain codes. When it comes to cost structure within the Ministry of Education, just so you know, since you should know, for the Ministry, only 0.68% of the money is allocated, for primary education 49.25%, for secondary education 21.71%, for teaching and student standard 7.39%, for higher education 20.31%, for international co-operation 0.38%, for seducing 0.29%. When it comes to structure, the famous information related to wages and the rest, this year's salaries amount to almost 91% of the ministry's cost of education, remains for other levels. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I may have talked a little longer about the questions raised by certain colleagues, but I felt that there was a need to talk about it, because colleagues themselves have asked questions that deserve answers, and I think it is the minister's duty to say something about it. When it comes to Mr. Martinovic's question, it is true that we in the implementation of Bologna have problems. That's obvious. We've changed the law twice for the past two years, trying to meet the demands of the entire academic public. There's talk about student programs all the time, there's talk about textbooks, there's talk about lectures all the time, there's talk about exams, there's talk about whether students attend or do not attend all these ways of checking knowledge, and there's little talk about quality. Until things change and universities talk about quality, and of course it shows itself specifically simple what an objective problem is, you can't move forward. However, there is one dimension that is constantly ignored consciously or unconsciously. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Serbia was defined in 2003 to be part of the Bologna process, but the Bologna process is not mandatory. We didn't have to. Forty-seven countries in Europe are part of this process of creating a European space of higher education, 27 members of the European Union and others who are not. We didn't have to, but we wanted to. Why? Because we want to go ahead. We can think of ourselves as what we want, that we're great, fantastic, that we have a great education. By the way, I agree with you, education used to be great, but here, you have critics say – it wasn't worth anything, and it won't be, if it wasn't for a good education, that our experts are great in themselves, but they're probably the product of some educational system. But times change, education is thus shaped that 47 countries of Europe want to create a unique space for European education, of course mobility would increase and of course we are not stupid. Some countries will create themselves a good opportunity to get a finished expert, because we invest in it, invest in its education, it gets a finished product, unlike in previous years. The point here is to create an education system that will function as the development of the Republic of Serbia, and first to contribute to Serbia's development, and then to create opportunities for other students who want to do so and to go abroad, and also to return tomorrow. I'm saying this because the answer to this question is very complex. It implies the whole country's activity because it's not just about education, but it's about demographics and demographic movements and separations for other things that are part of the strategy to improve Serbia's situation. We at the Ministry of Education cannot do much on our own, but the fact that we have done in the higher education and education process of the Republic of Serbia is a positive atmosphere to work, the first results are slowly coming. Of course, we haven't solved many problems, because there are problems. At present it is still at the level of the entire system, not enough system from the point of view of quality is high. We have cases of violence in schools. We've got a problem with not perfecting teachers. We have a problem and the director's management. We have a number of other problems because education is not in the social system the highest value that should be respected in different ways both materially and statusally. The bottom line is that we design our own education system, but we must also follow trends that are in Europe. Being part of the European high education area for Serbia and for the future that exists. I think I've covered almost all the questions that were mentioned. I'm sorry I might have talked a little longer, but what am I gonna do, since you asked me, and it wouldn't be fair if I didn't say. I'd like to say something about strategy. When this government was formed, as Minister of Education, I said that by the end of the term of office of this government we would make a strategy for the education of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm telling you, there are 15 months left until new elections, we're going to have an education strategy. The National Educational Council made the course of development of education and the other day adopted developmental, improvement in the quality of pre-school, primary, general, secondary, artistic education and education. The National Educational Council did it. The public will have a technical editorial of the text. The National High Education Council has developed elements of the higher education strategy. This new assembly that will be adopted will do its part of the job and remains to be part of the material related to the development of the Republic of Serbia. I mention this because, as Government and I as Minister, we have taken a certain obligation to enter this duty and now I am telling you that we will do this, we will do what we promised, as well as the law on adult education and the law on primary school and high school law, and normatively arrange this system that whoever comes after us will have a regulated system. What is not good let it change, what is good, let it improve to have quality education for the years to come. There is no quality education when everything collapses behind it or uncritically accepts everything from the side. Everything has to be dimensioned in a way that fits our and our education systems, but also our and our national identity and what we want from Serbia in the years to come. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your patience to listen to me, but I think so many topics are mentioned regarding all levels of education. It wasn't just for higher education. I couldn't take the opportunity to say that things are because, no offense, your views are just one side of the story, as are mine, so when it's heard one and the other, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the opportunity to reach a conclusion on the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, on what we are doing, on the results that we achieve and on our plans for future time.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49363	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I especially thank you for the information you gave on raising the educational level in Serbia, given that we have not had the opportunity to be very informed about all this, and the results are indeed more than favourable and with a tendency to further improve. (Zoran Shami, from the site: Replica. There is no basis for replication. I asked and you weren't, Mr. Shami, in the O.R. I asked if anyone else wanted a word. You can get the word at the next points and you'll get it, of course. I'm concluding a unique search. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the NATIONAL TRANSITIONAL COUNCIL We therefore have both this and the next item of the agenda. I'd like to inform you that we're going to be working without a break until today's work is over. I don't know how you're experiencing it, and what problems you might have with orientation. You have received, honourable MPs, a proposal for a decision made by the Education Committee. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 of article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed to the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that, according to this item of the agenda, the MPs will be the MPs, and that: MP Zoran Shami – MP group DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Nikola Savic – MP of the SRS. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Educational Council. Does the proposing representative, MP Zoran Shami, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49364	No, now I'm just going to be a representative of the promoter. If you agree on this one and the next, I'll give an explanation at the same time. The Education Committee has only found that the legal conditions have been met that two members of the National Education Council must simply be resolved. In the case of Mr Pavlovic, it is the fact that he is employed in an organisation that the law claims cannot because of conflicts of interest to be a member of the National Educational Council. In the case of Mrs. Dimov, which is the next item of the agenda, I apologize for not reporting twice, it is the fact that the very responsible member of the Educational Council has retired, and that the work organisation that has delegated her, or proposed to the National Educational Council, and asked her to replace her. These are the reasons why these two points of the Education Committee were directed to the National Assembly. Otherwise, I don't think there's much to discuss about these resolutions, but Madam Chairman has made me discuss it, but not on that matter, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49365	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Minister, you've told us 32 minutes and a lot of what you've said is true. But you said that in the wrong place. You were supposed to speak at the government. It's not exactly information that the budget for education is 13.96. As far as I know how to share numbers, and I can tell, from last year's 14.3% budget expenditure, it fell to 13.5% this year and I was talking about it in my presentation. Secondly, when you mention, which is accurate information, over 400 prizes from mathematics and physics that have been won in recent years should be said that 99.9% of these awards were won by the students of the Mathematical High School. You know very well, and in this regard we have worked very well together, and my fellow members of the Education Committee know that we have organized a meeting here in the Assembly with eight schools, as many as there are, in Serbia dealing with a special programme of specialized schools in the education of talented students. It's mostly mathematical and philosophical high school. There are only eight in Serbia. At that time, we concluded as a Committee that these schools should be helped not by some overly significant means, but at least by the minimum means that equipment can be better equipped to obtain the personnel necessary for the education of these children. Unfortunately, there was no money in Serbia's budget for that. And it is completely insignificant money compared to 844 billion dinars or eight billion euros in the expenditures of Serbia's budget. Thirdly, when we like to boast of talented and good students in the education budget this year, 21.806,000 dinars or about 200,000 euros for all Serbia for all talented students are allocated. If there are only a thousand talented students in Serbia and there are at least 10 times as many, it is 200 euros per grade per year or 16 euros per month. We're as ready as a state to invest in talented children. In fact, it's 10 times smaller, because I'm saying there are a lot more talented students in Serbia, which you know perfectly well. So with all due respect, I don't think you've convinced the government that education should be given a little more money and how significant it is. Don't convince us, convince the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49367	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49368	I must say, I'm sorry Professor Shami wasn't in the O.R. the whole time the honourable MPs talked about the bill. If you were, you'd be in a position to hear the questions that required answers. What fellow MPs were saying I wrote down, my colleague Poscurica, my colleague Mihajlovic, my colleague Shami, my colleague Zlata Djeric, my colleague Goran Mihajlovic, my colleague Martinovic and his colleague, Zutic. They were debaters, and if you were in the O.R., you'd see, you'd realize I'm answering their questions. You've gotten a completely different impression. There is no need for me to boast before the congregation or to answer questions asked by MPs. I said very well in the end that Serbia's public should always hear both sides and representatives of the opposition and representatives of the government and draw a certain conclusion on their own, which is true and what is not. Dear Professor Shami, 114,147 versus 818, 344 is 13,940 86. So I pulled the decimals out. Here you go. It is written in the draft Budget Law for 2011, the budgetary composition of education and the total budget of the RS. I'm saying that yesterday I heard from Professor Kovac that the countries of the OCD, the budget of the Ministry of Education in the structure of the budget of those countries is an average of 13.26 and I'm taking that information out and I'm standing behind it, and you're using -- I'm counting, so you'll see. Third, I keep saying that the task of the Ministry of Education is not to give a group of students an advantage over others, but to raise the quality of the entire education system, and that who can help them to be even better. We do it in different ways. It's not just the Ministry of Education. There are different funds and we are trying to help mathematical high school by providing it with conditions of preparation for the competition, paying for appropriate travel, etc. So they're not left behind or anything, but I have to tell you that we're dealing with the economic situation that exists. My colleague Djeric said, now I remembered, that I was not bold enough and rude enough to fight the government for a bigger budget. This government is not such that these features would be primary when agreeing on the structure of the budget. I said what is true, that I spoke repeatedly to the government about the need for investment in education and that the government is doing its best. We need to be aware that the economic crisis in the world is and that we are part of this crisis with all of our consequences. Professor Shami, we're really doing everything possible. I wish it were more, but it can't be said that we're not doing anything or that what we're doing doesn't produce adequate results.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49369	Here, you have to sign in. Replica, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49370	Mr. Minister, I didn't think of you at all in the sense that you shouldn't answer to your fellow MPs. Of course you should. I just said it was better if you could do a little more at the government. First of all, your calculations aren't right. I don't have that budget book here, but budget expenditure is 844 billion. You share 114 with that and you'll get what you get. Anyway, you'll get less than last year. Last year was 14.3. Divide 107 by 350 and that's it. Secondly, when I was talking about the need for more resources to be allocated to talented students, I really didn’t have any evil intentions. And by these large means, I mean billions, trillions, trillions, etc. I mean very small money, and it's actually the best and only one, and you know it well, the only investment. It had to be in the budget to find room for a little more money to work with a talented one, and these are not just talented students in special schools, they are talented students in the whole country of Serbia. For them, it's separate, I've calculated for you, about 1.6 euros per month per head. Sixteen if there's only a thousand of them, but I'm sure there's a lot more. So, you realize, at least that's how I understand it, I think that on that point education we should all be on the same side, and that's the side of our children's well-being, I'm not looking for anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49371	A representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Nikola Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Educational Council. I'm going to do a little dyspression, an introduction. Here you can see in the best way how and how this Assembly works and how this parliamentary majority behaves. We had and discussed yesterday the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011. (President: Let me remind you, a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Educational Council is on the agenda. I'm just getting to it. I said, Madam Chairman, I'm making one dipression. You'll see from my discussion in the end that I won't take up your time and I won't use all the time that belongs to me in the Rules of Procedure. As I said yesterday, we discussed the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2011 in a united debate with seven other laws, one of which is an extremely important law, which is the Law on PIO. Today we have, in my opinion, a very different situation, which is to consider two points of the agenda, two decisions. So they're not even laws, they're decisions, and that, individually, means not in a united debate. To make the paradox bigger, these two points that we are considering today, especially each one for ourselves, bear the exact same title – a proposal for a decision on the resolution of a member of the National Educational Council. The only difference is that, on the date the act arrived before the MPs of the National Assembly. The difference is only in the name, or two names. In one case he is Mr. Pavlovic, and in the other case he is Mrs. Dimov. Mr. Pavlovic is resolved for the reason that he moved to another post that represents a conflict of interest, and Mrs. Dimov for his retirement. Otherwise, these two agenda points are absolutely compatible and absolutely related to other matter, but probably in that hurry to push through the budget and everything that went along with it, you dropped or forgot about these points that are absolutely compatible by nature and absolutely agreeable to consider them together. So much for your democracy. Now I'm going back to what I want to talk about. So I'm going to connect in my discussion of these two points of the agenda, in this way, which I'm not going to report on the next item of the agenda, because I really don't think it makes any sense, because absolutely dots are the same and wear the same title, they treat the same matter. The difference is, as I've already said, in name and date. As far as the agenda is concerned, that is to say freely, everything I'm going to say now refers to the next item of the agenda. I will again, Mr. Minister, make my principled remarks on the composition of the National Council for Higher Education, which I brought there and on this National Educational Council. We saw it then, and you also reminded the MPs here that the National Education Council has twice as many members as the National Council for Higher Education. So, the National Education Council has 43 members, and the National Higher Education Council has twenty-one members. I think that, when it comes to the National Educational Council, since it has a larger number of members, the government has had a much greater opportunity to express the corrective factor that I was talking about here. Of course, that's the thing behind us now. We're just solving here right now, we're still not choosing. I want to believe that when these two places on the National Educational Council are filled in, that if it depends on the government and the ministry, it might take care of what I've been saying. There's a bigger maneuvering space here. This advice includes experts, i.e. all profiles of educators, from teachers to doctors of science and academics. There, since it was exclusively about the High Education Council, it is certain that only those with higher education could participate, the doctors of science. In this advice, the National Educational Council can also get people from Babusnica, Gadgin and Vlad's Han, the people of Koceljeva, the people of Baimok, the people of Mali Ijoš and all parts of Serbia, so that it has to be taken care of. Again, I will remind you of the composition of this council, noting that he did not now elect their members, we see again that there are the largest number of these people from Belgrade and Vojvodina. I'll look back at the part, the end of the Republic I come from, and I come from Nis from Southeast Serbia. At the National Education Council, Nis only has a representative from the University of Nis, only because the law stipulates that all universities in Serbia must have a representative in this council. That member of this council is there, as it would have been said, information by the difolt, and if it hadn't been for the law, the question is, would anyone have found themselves out of Nis in the first place. As I recall, here it came to mind, I think there's a teacher from Leskovac, I can't quite remember her name, and that would be all from southern and southeastern Serbia. I think it's a little bit. I will remind you once again, Mr. Minister, that when this advice is fulfilled, if, of course, there are opportunities, to make sure that these people do not necessarily have to be from Belgrade, but from some other parts of Serbia. So my general remark is again similar, in fact identical to that of this previous council. I would like to take advantage of your presence here in the end, Mr. Minister, to give you one specific question – why have educational workers not been paid jubilee awards for the past few years? I looked at this proposal, or the items of the budget relating to it, and I'm not really an expert on these economic issues, but as far as I could see there, these funds are not nearly enough to do so in this budget. Unfortunately, we know that people who work in education are mostly people who love their jobs, who are committed to their profession. A large number of them have died without receiving that jubilee award in the last few years. My question would be – will it be in the next period and will the Government and the Ministry respect it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49373	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49374	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. I apologize for not mentioning you earlier as someone who participates in this debate on higher education, you are an authorised representative of the SRS. I must say that the issue of the jubilee prize is the question, unfortunately, of the economic situation, where money is needed, but also of the provisions of the Budget Law. In the previous two years, the Budget Law did not provide for jubilee rewards for people employed in education, otherwise, immediately to tell you that I share your position that they should get that money and you saw that the government did not deny the right, just said that in 2009 and 2010, there is no proper money for it, because we can only spend as much as we have. For 2011, as far as I know, the funds are provided and will then continue. Otherwise, we should also sign a protocol these days with unions on earnings in 2011, where we will regulate all issues of increasing the salaries of employees in the education sector in 2011. I say once again, I'm sorry there was no money for the previous two years, but that's part of what I'd say is the consequences of the global economic crisis, which has objectively hit us, and that's the obligation of local self-government, and yet if they don't get the money through the transfer then, of course, they won't be able to pay the employees that money. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49375	Natasa Jovanovic, vice president, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49376	Mrs Đukić Dejanović, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, seemingly one decision as pro form to be resolved, i.e. to stop the function of one of the members of the National Educational Council, but now that I am speaking, Mr Minister, of Mr Slobodan Pavlovic, whose decision is now on the agenda, because of what the Committee has established, on the basis of legal provisions, that he is in conflict of interest and that he cannot be a member of the National Educational Council, I will have to make one introduction and bring out information that the public almost knows nothing and then you will see, Mr Minister, that, even in education, just as in all our society, there are segments of corruption and what is called unfair treatment. Of course, there is also an educational inspection and competent authorities who do so. Finally, a similar initiative by students was recently launched in a higher school institution where Professor Goran Mihajlovic, an MP for the SRS, was held. To present to you, distinguished fellow MPs, what kind of man it is and what a disgrace it is for the profession represented by Mr. Minister and which many of you are dealing with, whether in primary, secondary schools, in higher education institutions, I will tell you that everything would have been pushed under the rug if there were not a brave young man who, now already in 2007, as a student of the Law-Byrotech School in Belgrade, had been exposed to an affair related to Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic, who is now in office. Of course, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which entered into force on 11 September 2009, prescribed in Article 13, that the National Educational Council had 43 members, was earlier on 42. The National Assembly, you heard from fellow Savic, also spoke about by Mr. Minister, elects these people on the proposal of authorised promoters at the time of six years. In addition to being established, on behalf of the SRS, a colleague of the SRS had an objection to territorial representation, the law made it clear that those proposing members of the National Educational Council were the State University of Novi Pazar, the Social Society of Serbia, the higher education institutes for educators, each given by one member in the Council and, among other things, Mr. Minister, from the Community of Secondary Professional Schools now have the right to two members, instead of four, to what they had under that old law. This Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic was elected member of the newly established National Educational Council on 23 May 2005, elected as representative of the Association of Professional Schools, is that right, Serbia. Why now, ladies and gentlemen, does this decision end the term of office for him? Because he's in conflict of interest, because in the meantime he stopped working at the Law-Birotech School, where he was the director, in Belgrade, and he went to the director, or one of the editors at the Book Office, to our former counterpart, Miroljub Albianic. To return to this courageous student in 2007, Ivan Ninić, who later, because of the fact that he defined himself as a man who turned 18, joined the SRS because he was explicitly fighting every type of crime and corruption, and now at the head of the Anti-Corruption Team of the SRS, published a book, Mr Minister, which I once gave to Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister, "Democracy Review", which was justified, documented, all abuses, all machinations from the arrival of DOS to power, from 2000 to the moment he published the book, and he spoke about Slobodan Pavlovic when you didn't know who that man was and when no one had ever dreamed, ladies and gentlemen, that he would one day and his name be mentioned at the National Assembly session and that he would be discussed. In 2007, Ivan Ninic, as a student of Law-Birotechnical School, reported to the Ministry of Education and Budgetary Inspection that he was established to suspect that the director of his school, Slobodan Pavlovic, whom we are talking about here today, abused the position of director and that there are less than 7.5 million dinars in the school register, Mr. Minister. In order not to keep it all that way, this brave young man Ivan Ninic addressed the competent state authorities and they came to see what it was about. He wanted to explain it at the same time and, of course, you know that at school when directors pressured both students and students, he might have had the support of his colleagues, his comrades and friends, he might not, but he wanted to go to the end of it. Afterwards, the competent authorities, therefore, the municipal public prosecutor's office launched proceedings and judges for violations, after the budgetary inspection found that young Mr. Ivan Ninic, then a student of the Law-Birthetic School, rightly, punished him with 300,000 dinars of schools and Pavlovic with 50,000 dinars. According to criminal charges by Mr. Ivan Ninic, the first municipal public prosecutor opened proceedings against Pavlovic, and all of this had to be later known to Miloljub Albianic, who quickly rushed from the parliamentary benches for a better position, probably, and a better salary, what he would do in the parliamentary benches, is probably bored, he has nothing to do, and for a time he was vice president of the Assembly, to go as director of the Department for Publishing textbooks. You know, when he came to that responsible post, our former counterpart, Milojub Albianic, had to know who he was receiving to the facility and who he was and what reputation he had. He had to know that, as Mr Krasic said, that's why he received it, but that it was some normal flow he had to know. If he didn't know who Slobodan Pavlovic was when he placed him as editor, or editor of the newspaper at the school for publishing textbooks, he could have learned all this from young Mr. Ivan Ninić. He wrote him a letter and said, "Mr. Albianic, I, as a student of Law-Birthic School, responded, called for a budget inspection, the director embezzled seven and a half million dinars, the budgetary inspection established it, the judge for the violations punished him... "You know what he said, Mr. Minister, to Albianic? In his letter, he said, "Well, a man like that and with such references is necessary to this establishment," I quote literally. So, Albianić, at the Book Office, needs a man who commits embezzlement because he is not Slobodan Pavlovic, so we are solving him now, logically, he is no longer a representative of what he was in the National Council, from a community of professional schools. He did not leave the director's post in August 2009 because he wanted to, but under pressure, as the prosecution began to do its job. So now the art is still going on and we'll see what kind of epilogue he'll be, if the judges work on these material evidences, but he's very broadly and without competition, Mr. Minister, Albianic received him here. Then what are we talking about? You know, tomorrow's gonna be some other affair. The composition of this national council will change, some others will come. Should people like this be sitting there? Please, if he, Ivan Ninic, is because he discovered the affair, which later began to write about our party lists "Great Serbia", when he joined the SRS, many did not want to hear him, but came to a party that only truly fought against every type of crime and corruption. He wrote an article under the title three years ago, which was in our magazine "The Great Serbia", "The figure and the work of Srecko Sojic". Not this Šojic Lanet Gutovic in Pavic's series, not to think, not later on, of this Šojic Tomislav Nikolic, who stole the mandates and money in the SRS, so he got the nickname that Sredko Šojić, but of this one, and you can see how much Sojic has in Serbia, how skillfully Pavić has shown this in his series, about Šojic Slobodan Pavlovic, who, from his post and from the post of Director of the Law-Birthetic School, committed the established crime. We will not prejudge, nor will Mr Ivan Ninic, as the applicant of criminal charges, the decision, or the verdict of the competent authority, or the court, but please, if the judge for the offences and the budgetary inspection established it. What do I have in front of me now? I have the property card of the Anti-Corruption Agency Slobodan Pavlovic. Gentlemen, today, on December 24, 2010, this man's decision is to be resolved, that is, in the voting day, means next week 29, from the seat of a member of the National Educational Council, and he couldn't have been since 2009, when he resigned. The board was not in a position to work, because the proposal did not arrive, all this is slow going, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, you know it very well, as well as that many are obstructing the work of the National Assembly. Now that it's only today that this decision is made, what about this money Pavlovic receives, as a member of the National Educational Council, and he no longer had, because it has been found that he is in conflict of interest, the right to be there? What's that amount? He reported 41,255 dinars. Albianic's salary was the moment he reported it, when he was admitted without a competition, 90,940 dinars. Now in a year and more, will Pavlovic return this money, Mr. Minister? What's the salary of an educational worker? People are cramping. At my place in Kragujevac, in Šumadia, we must now, it is today at the meeting of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, among other things, the topic of the agenda, to create a different network of primary schools. Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic knows that, because our forest villages are dying. They die, no children. In the village of Božurnja near Topola, a school has been shut down that has celebrated for hundreds of years because there is not one student. Not to mention the departments of other villages and towns, from where they came from the Racan's famous Leader's End and my ancestors. No, it just has to cross over, so the students from one go to the other. The man who was on the National Educational Council, who was supposed to be involved, abused the position. What else was he doing? In the pub, or in the "Madera" restaurant, he spent all this money, the accounts were between 50 and 70 grand. It's not free, again I say I apologize to Mr Pavic, that he doesn't mean anything by this proud Serbian act to talk about him, so Mr. Ninic wrote "The figure and work of Sreko Sojic". You know what he said in those accounts that Pavlovic paid in Madera, from 50 to 70,000 dinars? Among other things, it's a tip. That's what Sojic's doing in the show, and in "Silent Skin" and later on in "The White Ship". Please, how far has Serbia gone and what is our reality? What do we do now, Mr. Beard? Who's going? This cannot be done by the competent authority, before which the procedure was initiated by Mr Ivan Ninic. He'll find out or he won't find out, but I'm saying there's an art in progress. What legal sanction follows? There's no legal sanction for this. He went to Albianic, got a spot without a competition, received it, calculated it yourself, it was reported in the property map. To react to the Anti-Corruption Agency, he can't. Right? And what authority is that? Is this now the inspection that the Ministry of Education is about to order him, Mr. Obradovic, because he has been illegally receiving money since August 2009? So this is one big scandal. I end up not thinking I'm biased, because it's a member of the SRS, but that young man is at the head of our anti-corruption team and he's run a lot of things and his trail goes, after all, in many cases, and Mrs Baraq and many others who write, whether it's "Pistel" or something else. Please take care of this, and now this case has to be solved. He's gonna lose his function, but what about the amount, and who's going to expose what he's received there and do that job at the Department of Publishing textbooks without competition? In any case, in the end, I want to invite all brave people, all students, all of them, there have been such cases at the High Engineering School in Tristenik, where Mr. Mihajlović teaches, and you are familiar with it, and at the end of the day in other cities in Serbia, that he dares to follow the path of this young man, who was then a high school student, Mr. Ivan Ninić, and now he is a student of the Law Faculty, who was responsible and determined to go against crime and corruption in a school where he was just an ordinary student.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49377	The MP, Mr Krasic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49378	I must begin with the commendation, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, I must commend the people who have scheduled this session, because you can see the importance of the motion for a decision on the resolution of Slobodan Pavlovic. Several times this decision is more important than the budget, than the pension and disability insurance laws, than the judicial laws, all together and every single one. When you hear what Miss Jovanovic said, then you see that you are caught in the fight against corruption and crime and you give space of five hours to calculate. I think in these two years, as far as you're in power, this is today the only point where you've made the biggest contribution to the fight against crime in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that also fits this test "OMSVRSSBT" and this test "OIGS" within the NPS. If I didn't read this, it's long, I could use some of this time. So, the NPS is the National Educational Council, this 'OIGS', which is an assessment of the sustainability of Serbian citizens, and this 'OMSVRSSBT', is an assessment of the mental state of the government of the Republic of Serbia with Boris Tadic. That you will not, Mr. Obradovic, find in "Politica", I will give it to you through "Great Serbia" and in other ways, and very accurate data, it is all measured. Well, let's go. The case of Slobodan Pavlovic is resolved. Just to remind you that Mr. Ninic, Mrs. Dejanovic, contacted the authorities about what you owe me two and a half years ago, what Mladja wrote about money laundering during the renovation of the National Assembly. There is still a pre-criminal procedure, the prosecutor took it, took it and UBPOK, some participants in the big affair should be heard. I think it will be the same as Slobodan Pavlovic. What name will it be, I suppose you know that. In order for there to be no further affairs, I must commend the government again, Mrs. Hope. In time, the government of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. There was a slight increase in these salaries in those longest paying classes, and you don't need to make a grate here, to make someone jump like in the Romanian parliament. That's what I'm praising you for. So, you went to meet the problem, that people don't commit suicide, since it's very hard to put an end to the end, and those who are 45, up to sixty-eight, to wait for retirement, may God help them. So Slobodan Pavlovic is being resolved because he is in conflict of interest. However, Mrs. Dejanovic, let me explain one more thing to you. We have a major problem in the country – the Securities Commission stopped its mandate two years ago and there is still no proposal for a new commission. We have written to you, Mrs Dejanovic, several times we have spoken to you, we have invited all MP groups to submit their proposals, since the law is still anachron, so MP groups are proposing etc. There's nothing yet. I'm distracting you, he's stopped his mandate long ago to that commission, and there's Stimac constantly taking pictures, and taking over, and this, and so on and so on. You know what the affair was at the time when Labus was still Deputy Prime Minister, about taking over the "Knjiza Miloša" action, etc. He's still working. So someone here saw about Pavlovic that something was wrong, so he started with the Securities Committee to keep quiet. The mandate is up, and they work people, they don't care, they have the continuity of lack of legitimacy. It's an amazing thing. These are all the epochal successes of this pro-European, pro-pro-social and pro-Serbian government. We saw Mr. Pavlovic progressed in this career. The more he had criminal charges, the more he had a verdict, the more he had a situation for the experts to do everything he did, he progressed in the social hierarchy, progressed and came to the place to be very close to Miloljub Albianic, from a mercy called "Veselko". He just needed such an expert, who knows how to fix the invoices, to order him to drink, to eat, to wash, to pay for the tip, to pay for this, to pay for that. Now the question is, are there any other patients like that in the NPS? They're people who design programs, education systems. In every respect, they should be examples, not just of students, students, but of colleagues, teachers, teachers. When they throw something out of that meeting, inform the public, it's a dogma, because the brain trust worked on it, professionals, not amateurs, professionals who work for money, don't work for free, experts, not diletters. Then we see that a highly suspicious guy has been robbed and today we're talking about these problems of our education system. No wonder then. If such people design an education system, define programs, etc., in some ways affect and what amount of knowledge will be present with our children when they successfully complete an object with a three, and then it's all clear to you. So, everything's cataractly set up, everything's on a tube. The system of values is upside down, twisted, twisted. Criminals induced power. I'm not going to use those words that my enemies from the EU use when they quote me, you know what I mean. As for this washing for this system that hasn't fallen yet, some other places fall counting systems, and our system works, is that it's been used, the budget inspection has, Mrs. Dejanovic, been working and the auditor has been working. Do you know why there is no criminal case against those responsible? There was no response from the National Assembly's competent commission. Look at you and Neco Konstantinovic, what he's doing here. It's such a mild distraction, since you know I'm going to announce some things in advance, I know what the problem is, and I know the solution right now. Look at something, they've blocked the judiciary. That Lucic never had any immunity, and there are some others hiding behind it. All right, you'll handle it very effectively, I know. So we're in that field, and now I'm drawing your attention to what our criteria are here. When I say ours, I mean most of it, since it defines all of this, votes, etc. Are your criteria objective? Let me ask you an open question – if we solve Slobodan Pavlovic for conflict of interest because he is doing two incompatible jobs, why didn't you do it like with the circuit assembly, and make it a compatible business, made it like with mayors and MPs, to be compatible jobs? What it costs – 126 hands. Bossa Nenadic has to retire to her coat, not to write - it's pro-European. Why is it pro-European? Because 126 of them said, and that's the law. What a European Commission, there are 126 people. It used to be 70, while Bozovic was, and he says -- with 70 and the country won't be round, it'll be fourth. It's something like what you're doing. So it's a conflict of interest. That's one reason to solve it. There are much more significant reasons that should be used to resolve someone, and you will, in the previous point, practically choose people who are in the same position as Slobodan Pavlovic. The first case is Gašo Knezevic. He applied the bill when he was Minister of Education and wrote in the solution: "I decide this according to the draft law," and no one saw the law, the law was not even passed, it was not in the government of the talks on the law. If such a man enters the Council for Higher Education, then you can imagine what he is willing to raise his hand and vote for. To remind you, Mrs. Comic, you remember some Dragoslav Šumarca, he was once the building minister, in that first government since January 25th 2001, in a people known by reporting to the Prime Minister: "Dear Prime Minister, I am reporting to the report, the building in Serbia is good. "Do you remember when your government fell, when he painted his mustache in the front row? He had his own geodetic firm, as a minister... (President: Please take care of the dignity of all citizens of Serbia and the people you mention. I am presenting the general known facts because of the dignity of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these facts are not forgotten. As I see it, he's hanging out there in some engineering chamber. They are the same criteria as Slobodan Pavlovic's. You place two functions on the burden of Slobodan Pavlovic, and you have at the previous point half of them who have an oho-ho function. You remember that they were legally deluded by some of the professors of Belgrade's Law School, while they were MPs at the National Assembly. They were defended by Bosko Ristic. You can imagine how he defended them. Where's the objectivity, where's the same criterion? The two were proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know what these governments of ours have been like since January 25, 2001? Feudal, there are no principles to enter the government, everything that is said is forgotten, not just in the campaign, but a year before that. Do you know that you will also vote for Darinka Matic Marojevic, at the previous point? It's on the list. Marovic, I'm sorry, I may have made a mistake last name. Do you know what you said in 2000 about this lady as a professor and conductor? Just to remind you, I don't want to change your mind, but just to remind you. Do you remember Oscar Kovac? What did you talk about him? Now you're in the coalition, and now you have to accept Oscar Kovac, Professor Oscar Kovac. Let me remind you, and remind your voters how consistent you are, and to figure out what's causing it, which is why you're so often 180 degrees capable of changing your attitude, thinking. You don't choose the means. What's in the background? Money. You want to control, you want to have as much money as possible, you want to wonder about everything and everything can go by, you can do this anyway. All principles can be trampled, only to be close to the pair, regardless of the OIGS test, the Serbian citizens' endurance test. That's what the people need to know, not because of what's going to happen in some elections, etc., but that when they hear something you're proposing, to immediately refer to experience, to remind themselves of what happened, what it was, why it was, what they said, why they were fighting, what they were bleeding for, what they never said, never, never, never, ever, ever, ever, ever accepted. What's the cause? What's the motive? Money. You love money more than anything in the world and in order to get money, it doesn't matter how much, you'll all vote if you have to, hands and feet. Now you have very strong arguments for pressure. That's, if it's money -- we're working on the World Bank's and IMF's orders. It's like some apostle said. Otherwise, you see the people, but you can't change anything because of them, it's the law. You've seen them change themselves. It can be reconsidered, it has the right to appeal, although nothing has changed in the Constitution, or in any law for these years and a half. No, she said some commission in Brussels, and Belgium doesn't have a government. Do you know that? Mrs. Djukic, Belgium has not yet formed a government. The headquarters of that government of theirs is in Brussels. It would be a shame for me to have someone from Belgium come and tell me how the state should be organised, and they haven't organised their own state, they can't agree on the government, and they're giving us a lecture. I don't know who's allowed to talk to them about it. Brooke and the shame to talk to them about government, about some European standards. How do they apply their European standards when they can't build a government? What's hard to make a government. Only 50% plus one vote, that's all. Go and teach them how to do it. You bribe this guy, you bribe that guy, you finish the job, you give them those experiences. You have a rich experience here if governments are formed, hours of work, you throw your hand at half past six, done. It's a European standarad, not the Valons, and the Flames. Let it go, they're not ashamed to fight. You see how many affirmative things I give, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, about this government that was formed thanks to you being the president of the National Assembly and so you can export these experiences, you can earn, it can be the best export business of the Republic of Serbia, to export the principles of DOS policy in all fluid states. Now, Mr. Pavlovic, you know, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, she won't even get cut when she hears he's been relieved. No, he'll say -- one less concern, but he won't worry about those from the Anti-Corruption Agency either. I got scared this morning when I was buying cigarettes on the bar, I see a sign -- police are opening mail before it gets to the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's nothing weird to me. Who's head of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Cedomir Cupic, the main opponent. He's not here to fight corruption at the level of the entire state, but to control these in power, because you know the "Resistance" -- we're just watching you. He's conducting monitoring over you, you'll understand better, since you're in transition now, so you need to be transparent. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, I may have been confused, but I have to translate to make them understand better, because apparently those words are better understood than our Serbian words. This is our situation with this educational council, and speaking of something called Bologna, everyone has made quite a contribution to this radical appearance of the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. The biggest contribution to justify this nakaradic system was to hear earlier, when an analysis was carried out why students in the UK and Serbia rebelled. It is said that in the UK, they rebel because their tuition was raised three times. The same is true of the students in Serbia, because their parents cannot pay this tuition, is the same reason. The dream of every normal man in this country is that when the time comes to retire, that pension is achieved under the same conditions as Mr. Krkobibic did, and every student's dream is that under the same conditions is to be schooled and studied as Cedomir Jovanovic, Boris Tadic, Zoran Krasic, Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, because of this pro-European event, there has been catastrophic damage in all fields, absolutely in all fields. If you think that by selling Telecom you can solve all the problems and even what Slobodan Pavlovic, Gašo and not order further, you will not succeed. And that's a little bit for Slobodan Pavlovic, Gaš Knezevic and these. I'm distracting you, again in advance, not sucking the oars of those from the west. They're afraid you'll spoil their controllers who control you, so their controllers don't experience what Montgomery's been through. He prefers Serbia rather than the United States, at the end of his function, and then these are suspicious from the West, we've given big money to buy this off, because this is cheaper than planes and bombs, but these are also making our observers. In order to preserve them so that their observers do not break down, they will likely launch many investigations, and as the nation can see, you are very sorry for Darko Saric, especially those from Novi Sad, who are in power. But about that one. If I've succeeded, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to tell you that you're having a bad time with the government, I'd be happy to. If I have succeeded in informing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to convince them, but only to inform them. I'll convince them in a month on the streets, but if I've been able to inform them that they understand why there is such a power or why they're having a hard time living, and how insatiable the representatives of the authorities are, there are few MPs, and we understand each other right now, they are excluded from the process, the process is with Karamela, at Maca's. These are the famous nicknames of the great fighters for democracy. So, if I was able to inform them that they could locate the cause of their life problems, then, Mrs. Djukic and I have achieved great success. Thank you for your patience to listen to me and not take my children's shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49379	Mr. Krasic, I am in Parliament and you are my company, so if my company is bad, that's what you said. The word is Mrs. Gordana Pop Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49380	Dear fellow Members of the People, I assume that Mr. Minister has left the room to check this information from my colleagues and regarding the personality of Slobodan Pavlovic, who, in our opinion and according to the information we have, should have been relieved of this duty long ago. The question arises why the Committee has not initiated this before, since it is authorized to do so. Obviously, the board didn't have the right information either, so that's why we're on the agenda today. Of course, I would be very pleased as a national MP that we had time to, as about this item of the agenda, dedicate time and some other points of the agenda that went before, such as the Bill on Changes and Supplements of the Tax Act to additional value, because we are in connection with even this law because it gives us the opportunity to talk about a word of education, and here we predict a tax increase for computer equipment from 8% to 20%, as well as for services in hotel accommodation, and we know that the government itself told us, when it was formed, that we want to develop, among other things, territorial activity, and that it is the fastest turning of money and that it is that VAT to 8% and that we want to describe the people, our children and our general general population, and therefore the tax on computer equipment was defined to 8%. Now obviously we want to be illiterate, so our children don't have computers in schools anyway, especially they won't have them because, I remember, at the time I was president of the Zemun municipality, that the Faculty of Agriculture opened a new subject – IT. There was a new cathedral, and they had one room, they built their own tables, a carpenter who maintains the building, but they didn't have computers, and then the Zemun municipality made sure that the cabinet was equipped. It was the same with the School of Economics and many other schools, so if we are talking about some strategy for the development of education that the minister is announcing to us by the end of the term, we are wondering what we are doing so far and why laws and measures have been passed so far for further development of the education system if there is no strategy. This National Council is not to be evaluated, and I am a little surprised that other parliamentary groups have not found it appropriate to speak on this subject, given that it is 43. It should be very competent people who make important decisions, but we know from experience that they are mostly politically similar people and that our education, to our misfortune, is quite politicized. As long as that is the case, we will have problems, not only in education but in the overall education system or in the product of the education system, because, in our opinion, education is truly of national importance and should rise above the day-to-day policy or interest of certain political parties, and we are witnessing that the directors are also elected by being members of the ruling political parties, which in these national councils is also divided by different political parties that make up the parliamentary majority or government and that the institutions and organisations themselves that delegate these members to national councils do not care about the quality of these people. From there and against their work, he cannot be on a satisfactory level. I truly respect Mr. Minister and his efforts to present to the public certain results in the education system. As an individual, he probably can't do much, he obviously has a good will, but those who influence the formation of our budget and the distribution of funds in our budget, it's not in the interest that we have the kind of past that we want to have or how we used to have. Although, someone might say that 20 years ago she wasn't good. I stand on the point that she was much better than she was today, because there were much less and functionally illiterate and illiterate 20 years ago than there are today. We talked about this before, when we passed basic and secondary education laws, and we have, said the minister, results related to the general education of our students compared to their peers from other countries in the environment and in Europe in general, that this level is at an unsatisfactory level. Why? That's what should be the answer and the Minister of Education, and this national council on primary and secondary education, above all, since we're dealing with it now. The intention is to have as many illiterate children as possible, and therefore, and more illiterate people in positions that should govern this country, because whenever education is mentioned, believe me, I open four eyes, and for me it's kind of the most important thing in the country, and if there are certainly more important topics about both finance and wages and pensions, but all these are problems that can be solved very quickly, and when it comes to education, if we lose one, not to say 10 or more generations, we can hardly recover, because one day these semi-written people, we may have, well, in places perhaps the President of the Assembly, the President of the State, the Prime Minister of Government, the Dean of the College and so on. This is what concerns us very much, and we look forward to this strategy to see if we're finally going to teach our children to learn, whether we're going to free them from all that ballast they're loaded with, so they're not able to master the basic material that they're supposed to build on how the level of education increases. It's nothing new that for 20 years we have preschool education that is also free, that children prepare to go to school. That's not what this government invented. My older child is 28 years old, so she went to preschool and prep class for school and, of course, the results are much better if children can go to preschool and go to kindergarten. You know very well that you can't enroll us in kindergarten, that before you're pregnant you have to book in kindergarten, and in what state our kindergartens are, I won't even speak. We were opposed to abolishing this ministry and preschooling for education, because it is a massive ministry which is now what it is and is unable to deal with pre-school education and primary and secondary and higher education, etc. A number of my remarks, and it might be a replica of the minister to his presentation and about us as a state helping and it's a lot of free stuff, starting with basic, secondary, higher education, but it's inconceivable that children, I'm only going to make one digression, young people who go to college and who at the beginning of the school year say that if they win so many and so many points they get to be budget students, at the end when they win those points, and they have to remain self-financed students. There's no motive for these young people. Secondly, it's a huge burden for school parents. I give credit to all those who send their children to big cities and manage to support them to school, because I don't know how in this shit and in all the misery they're doing it. Mr. Minister spoke about the number of elementary schools, the number of high schools, whether that number is enough or not. It is also obvious that given the demographic structure of the population, the number of schools that are being closed internally. I would not say anything special about this, except the equipment of these schools and indeed the catastrophic state, and as my colleague Martinovic spoke about higher education institutions, not to mention primary and secondary schools. Where there is no understanding of local self-government for more investment, although it is partly their obligation, the Ministry of Education cannot do much. It is interesting that the Law on adult education has been mentioned and that I am telling you that this is another proof that we have unfortunately become an illiterate nation, and it is easy for illiterate people to manipulate and it seems to me that the EU's intention, at any cost, is that the fewer people are educated in our country, that the fewer people finish any school, and the fact is that from 7% of those who finish colleges, and even from that number, we were almost able to see and hear from someone from the government or I don't know who gave that information, but one of the officials, that a huge number of these finished students eventually went abroad. So we're throwing money out of the budget because we're not able to keep it and we're not able to keep it because of the overall policy that's not going in the direction that, if we're in debt, we invest that money where some new value is going to be created and some new job, but directly into consumption, so let the citizens know that this year we're paying 45% of our pensions out of the budget, and next year we're going to be 60%, and that's why the increase in years for retirement is because this country obviously doesn't need pensioners. We need to die in jobs and thus release the budget, or implement a measure of savings. As humane or not, I sincerely hope that the time will come for someone to deal with all these problems, not only about education, but also about our future and Serbia's development strategy in a different way, to turn to ourselves and our problems, because I think we are deeply aware that there are resources, above all, intellectual resources, and that we are not talking about natural resources, that we can only overcome all this if we want to and if no one is blackmailing us. If someone from the IMF or the World Bank comes to us and tells us what we're doing in our house, we can start undermining the foundations right now. They've been down for a long time. The pillars will fall slowly. One day this white ship will sink like a Titanic. So I appeal not only to the minister, whom I consider to be very responsible, but to his ministry perhaps one of the most important, that they do not go lightly over what they hear, not only of us fellow Members of the people who spoke today. He'll hear, too, if he has honest conversations, both from educators and parents. After all, the minister himself is a parent and his children go to school, and we can talk about it. We are not satisfied, because if our children do achieve these results, believe that it is only a partial result of the education system itself or of the efforts of the school, and much more of the efforts of parents and the separation of large financial resources, those who can further educate their talented children by paying for private lessons. I know from personal experience that many people wanted to go to these competitions in the world, which is from high schools, which is from art schools, and they didn't leave because they couldn't provide funds for that kind of thing. They had to speak to the local government again, if she had any understanding of it, she could have provided the funds. If not, those children remained undetected and that is another reason why, one day, as finished intellectuals, they decided to run away and to show us their anger, which no one supported them, by leaving their country and, instead of thinking that education is an investment, not a cost, they return to us in the right way. We could talk a lot about this. You gave us time for something like that, because you could have combined these three points, if you wanted them to be effective and given us the opportunity to pay special attention to these previous laws, but you're doing it your way. As far as the SRS is concerned, we've decided to talk about this subject as well. I think we have made a certain contribution to some future work, not only of the National Educational Council, but also of the Ministry and Government policy itself, which it will lead to future education.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49381	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone who has not used the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure. (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – the proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Consultative Council has been adopted by the Committee on Education. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed to the Parliamentary Group "For European Serbia" for an hour and 33 minutes; the SRS parliamentary group shall belong to the hour, 7 minutes and 12 seconds, the other parliamentary groups shall not apply. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if you have not done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that under this agenda, MPs Zoran Shami, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and Nikola Savic, the SRS parliamentary group, will be represented. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision to dismiss members of the National Educational Council. Whether or not he's the one who's not here, which means I can't give him my word. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) I shall inform you that, in accordance with Article 96(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, were submitted by the SRS and ZES parliamentary groups. I give my word to MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49382	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in the voting day, I will support the motion to resolve the members of the National Educational Council, which was tabled by the Committee for the Education of the National Assembly on 8 December 2010. Also, I am taking the opportunity today, just on the day that many of our fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, but also a large part of the citizens of the RS celebrate, that is, tomorrow's most joyous Christian holiday, I want to address them all, wish them all a lot of happiness, a lot of health and a happy Christmas. (National MP Srdjan Mikovic sends a Christmas card in Slovak)
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49383	Thank you, you did it on behalf of all of us. I give my word to the People's Messenger Goran Mihajlovic. Please sign in, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to express one regret that Mr. Obradovic is not present in the hall, because I intended to ask him one question, which is – how does he think that the primary and secondary education in RS has worked so far, if in 15 months, at the end of the term of office of this government, a strategy of education should be adopted? Does that mean that it worked with no plan or order, or on any of our other unknown principles? These two members of the National Educational Council that are changing Jadranka Dimov and Slobodan Pavlovic, all of them were told by my esteemed speakers Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Gordana Pop Lazic. On this occasion, I would like to point out something else, if some new ones are elected, and they will be chosen by the Parliament's secure majority, that these members of the Council should respect this House, this Parliament, and that they will report their work on a regular basis, once a year, as prescribed, and in particular, to provide answers to some of the questions which are in the opinion of most education workers in the RS in the jurisdiction of the National Council. I'll try briefly to tell you what's going on. You know, in these areas, primary and secondary education functioned on the basis of the provisions set by the 1970 National Assembly Resolution. It was until the beginning of the war of the 1990s, then the years of war followed by generations and generations of students who worked and worked under these circumstances. What is particularly dangerous in this area is that the effects of education and education are seen significantly later than in other areas. Unfortunately, when they are seen, then it is concluded that a whole generation has been destroyed, or perhaps even generations of students, which unfortunately was the case with us. As we can see, we have been trying with various reforms to respect, above all, some dictatorships and norms from the West, on behalf of the EU. Turns out it doesn't work exactly the way it wanted to. After the end of the war, those dealing with this problem know that in 2003 the Law on the basic system of education and education, which was slightly modified in 2004, was adopted in order to bring last 2009 into force a final version. When the law was passed last year, Mr. Minister said on that occasion: 'This law that we are making today contains 50% of new provisions and retains 50% of the existing provisions. ''I'm curious now, does the Ministry of Education have any feedback on the effect on these 50% newspapers that were introduced last year? If not, it is certain that some recapitulation and evaluation of the results should be carried out by the end of the government's mandate and that it should be made public. Also, this is what should be in the jurisdiction of members of the National Council, who will be elected in this assembly. So in those 15 months, we'll get a chance to hear that, though it's too optimistic. Mr. Minister is an optimist by nature and hopes that this government will survive until the end of its regular term, which would, in turn, be their historic success. I'll remind you, the last government to push through the entire mandate was from 1993 to 1997. We will have the opportunity to hear from this government what the effect of the 50% newspaper is. In particular, what is related to today's point – the National Educational Council, it is treated in Chapter 2. Provisions of the law on basic education and education. It is the Head that deals with development, security and improvement of the quality of education and education. It is said that this problem in RS deals with advice, and that National Enlightens the Council, which we are also discussing today, also the Council for Professional Education of Adults. Then he seduces, and so on: Institute for Advancement of Education and Education and Institutes for Quality Valuation, as well as individual segments of the Resort Ministry. What Mr. Minister was supposed to explain to us today is -- what is the effect of these biggest newspapers that were proposed by last year's law, and one of these newspapers was so-called. Networking of school institutions in Serbia? I remind you, local self-government units are in charge of pre-school and primary school institutions, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for secondary schools. It is certainly something that is of interest to most educational workers in Serbia, meaning what, in the ministry's view, the effect of this networking was, because it was perhaps the most important thing that was done on the territory of the Republic this year. Furthermore, what else should members of the National Educational Council be chosen to give us as information in the coming period? This is – what are the effects of these newspapers that have been introduced on education and education programmes, and these newspapers have been final exams, general, professional exams of art graduates and specialist master's exams. Last year, the SRS parliamentary group proposed to be very careful with this and first to examine the effects, in practice, that would have given these final exams, but obviously it was not, so it began to turn into an adventure where the ultimate outcome was uncertain. Next, from the other major newspapers, I'd like to make this so-called. licensing, establishing a licence for staff in institutions. We know that this new law specifically required it, so it will be interesting that members of the National Educational Council provide information on whether the quality of teaching and education in primary and secondary schools is improved after the introduction of licences or not. Finally, I would like to get an answer from the National Council, although it is a good part and in the power of the ministry, what are the effects of the new funding method proposed by this law, because, I will remind you, financing basic and secondary education is proposed to be carried out according to so-called. Captainial formula, based on the number of students and the corrective coefficient that depends on the geographical area. In the SRS' view, this is one wrong approach, because these geographical areas can have significance for EU member states, where possible, based on the geographical area, there are differences between individual countries, but how in the Republic of Serbia do you finance primary and secondary schools by formula and model of the EU, when they simply don't go with each other? So, the answer to this and similar important questions we expect will be given to us by the newly elected members of the National Council and will be the subject at some subsequent debate in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49385	The word is made by Vice President Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49386	President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, we are continuing the topic. We have here a case of a second member of the National Educational Council. It is Mrs. Jadranka Dimov, whose post ends because the National Employment Service announced on 18 May this year that the Assembly Committee on Education had obtained the conditions for Mrs. Dimov to retire, and then on 5 June this year the Committee was informed that a proposal from the National Employment Service had arrived to propose Vesna Cekic and Vesna Fabian to her place. As you can see, we can now debate over that slow procedure that I was telling you about, and the stalemate is obviously someone's intention to obstruct the work of the highest legislative body, to play with the Parliament any way you like. We can't have Mrs. Jadranka Dimov selecting one of the two candidates at this session by the end of this year, but only the Assembly will declare this. We must also explain to the citizens of Serbia, and above all to the educational staff, that we, the Serbian Radicals, in March 2009, when the National Educational Council was discussed, were really talking about all aspects of the problem in primary and secondary education, as well as preschool. However, the Preschool Education Act, which we have established on the task force that you are chairing, which we are in, as vice president of the Assembly, has only come to pass. What's the problem? The problem is that what we found back then, it turned out, it's only been a year and a half, as it were. We then said, all of our MPs who participated in the debate that March 2009, that the idea of the National Educational Council is indeed a great responsibility of the institution, we can call it that, on paper. But what happens in reality? The national education strategy, you also heard from Minister Zarko Obradovic, should be completed by the end of the government's term, but the issue is another 15 months. You know very well, as well as distinguished colleagues and Mrs. Komic and Mr. Novakovic, since in this children's rights working group, three weeks ago, we discussed opportunities to introduce health education, as a program for our founding, and there is an increasing number of parents in Serbia who through various forums, through various kinds of organizations ask for the future education of children in Serbia and the subject of patriotism, because, you know, it is the most beautiful feeling when you are a patriot and when you love your country and when you advocate to respect it and that others respect your national being. I understand those parents, and many of them I've talked to in the city I live in, so they come here, and they organize through various forums on some social networks and they open up websites, because how are we going to raise future generations, if we don't teach those children to love their Serbia, to fight for it, and to fight for the freedom of their country? He won't, as Mr. Krasic said earlier, one administration from Brussels, a state that doesn't have its own government, is telling us what we're going to do. The predecessor of our higher education of Kragujevci faces, where you and I are from, has reached such a situation from our city and has given such excellent scientists and staff, later through the education of universities across Serbia and the former SFRY, that we can really be proud of this period today. Where did we come from today? So, the National Educational Council. And if Mrs. Dimov could still work and had allowed her years, she would not have been able to boast, I believe, even though this way, we do not really know her and say anything personally, unlike just a few days ago by this Slobodan Pavlovic, who committed these malfeasances and abuses, and who I haven't told you about yet, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, that not only was it illegal for a year and a half, until the entry into force of this decision on the termination of his post as a member of the National Educational Council, there he received these over 40,000 dinars, but when he was admitted, when Albianic brought him to the Educational Authority, without competitions, and employed him at the salary of over 90,000, do you know what the Serbian government did in March this year? He was found to be in conflict of interest, as he could not also be a member of the National Educational Council, selected from the Association of Professional Schools, because he resigned there because of these malfeasances he discovered through 13 criminal charges by Mr. Ivan Ninic, but the Serbian government ignored all this in March of this year, Slobodan Pavlovic was appointed a member of the Management Board of the Department for the Publishing of Employees. Tell me, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, is that normal? Do you know how you did in the situation when you were approached by this anti-corruption agency, although I can really say it responsibly, my profession and your state function that you have never brought or merged in any way? Right? You spoke with honor and said it was a problem the moment they spoke to you. Was that right? That some of yours from the ruling coalition, opponents who don't love you and who may see some danger in you, have tried to abuse through various inscriptions in the media and through their statements, etc. We have not responded, for you have done as the law commands and as your morality and your honor warrant. Look what this Pavlovic is doing. We don't even know, although Mr. Ivan Ilic spoke to Albianic, how much his fee is as a member of the board of directors of a public enterprise under the government's patronage, which was chosen from the ranks of employees. There was no such malfeasance or anything like that in her career by Mrs Dimov, but a question was raised in public, among the educators, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, among the citizens of Serbia and, above all, the parents – what is the National Educational Council doing, and to interfere with certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? I'm going to talk about a specific thing now. The fact is that in September of the month, a textbook for the eighth grade of elementary school was appeared where the term Serbian Croatian was mentioned. The author of the textbook, Mrs. Duška Klikovac, tried later, with public controversy with Professor Milos Kovacevic and Professor Dr. Mihajla Scepanovic, to justify his position. However, you know, with brotherhood and unity, with brosomania, with the accident of the Yugoslav people, which has led to the fact that we now have occupied and western Republika Srpska and that we have been kidnapped by a huge percentage of the territory of Republika Srpska, which is threatened, even though the Dayton Agreement is in force, we are now experiencing in Serbia, our parents and our children, that the term Serbian Croatian language appears in the eighth grade textbook. Please, all in front of the eyes and members of the National Educational Council. Imagine now, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, since Mrs. Dimov has now expired due to retirement, we are entering that vacuum period, to call it that, in May of the following month, in 2011, when half of the members elected in 2005, because of their term of office, to be resolved, the other half will be elected by this number 43, they will work at the National Educational Council by 2015 and what kind of chaos will now arise and how will they agree and propose and agree on a national education strategy in Serbia when such things have happened? Not only did Mrs. Duška Klikovac, who probably had a problem with the fact that she from the general Yugoslav literature drew knowledge from basic studies, so anyone who deals with sociolinguistics knows that the question of language is an explicit linguistic question, she tried to put in place the term Serbian Croatian language, that justice is a political issue. Therefore, we are now in a situation that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia must certainly react in this case and I am sorry that there is no Mr. Minister, to see how this will be resolved. It is absolutely clear that the National Education Council has no basis, no mechanism whatsoever, nor can it be above the Serbian Constitution that clearly says it is for Serbs, and throughout the century it is, in use and that Serbs speak Serbian. In the end, Vuk Karadzic confirmed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49387	I give my word to Zoran Krasic, the MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49388	Mrs Dejanovic, despite our stolen mandates, we are currently leading – 7:6, seven radicals against six members of the government. For the record, it's for the public. So stealing doesn't help either. We're very strong, what to do. Let's start with this motion decision. I'm not going to use this lady's name, because whatever I say to that lady's account, with her name and last name, it would be a guess, and it wouldn't be good, and I'm not dealing with guessing, but something that's very precise. I'd like to ask the Bureau to take a decision proposal and take a look at the explanation. To see what's written in the explanation of a decision like this. Did you calculate? You have most of them? Martinovic, report to Brussels that they have provided most of them, have realised that with the water quorum in Europe, they cannot do without the quorum. Let's see how you've created the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia since 2000. Look at the first paragraph of the argument. Here you are calling for a member of the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System, and you realize that a member of this National Educational Council may cease his term before the end of time, where he is elected, on a personal request. This lady has not filed a personal request. It is further shown – on the proposal of the Proposer. We don't have a proposal here, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic. Next - if you do not fulfil your duty as a member of the National Educational Council. This is not mentioned at all, or - if by his actions he hurts the reputation of the duty he performs. That's not even the reason. So we're coming to the field so this might look like a proposal from the promoter. Who was the promoter during this lady's election? It was proposed by the National Employment Service. Is there such a suggestion that she can be resolved? It doesn't exist. There is a letter from the National Educational Council informing the Committee of the National Assembly, as a working body, that this lady has retired. And then the smart committee talks to the official promoter, the employment service, and they ask if it's true. They say, yes, it is true, and we accept that this is where it is changed. Please, retirement is no reason to stop this function. Retirement, retirement, so far, in all our regulations concerning the status of an individual who is a member of an organ, is treated as an act of reason to stop something by law enforcement. But no. Someone here has concluded that there is a woman in that council who has retired in the meantime, and you who are creating this power have on the list a candidate who is interested in receiving an appointment. Because there is a need for adaptation to solve a human problem, a member of the National Educational Council is changing. There, that's the reason. And the pompous announcement - the lady retired, so that's why she's getting rid of her. If retirement was a reason, then this government wouldn't exist, to be honest. You must definitely, as the Authority, say what kind of relationship you have in terms of what's the reason for progress and what's the reason for going back. What's the reason for asking... . (President: Mr. Krasic, I'm sorry, Mr. Zoran Shami is the speaker. He's not from the parliamentary majority, he works for the public. ) Yet you read the explanation, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic. I'm very precise, especially on this day, in 1979, I graduated from law school, so it's a measure of my taking your soul out on today. Look at what's written in the explanation and what's in the law. Here, I've given you a secret as to why I have the inspiration today to draw your soul, not yours, but those who are in power. Of course, to save the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if that rescue act can happen after the DOS. So the explanation written, to say the least, represents one of the types of abuse of something written in the law. I ask the question – if we use this as a reference for similar situations where it's about setting up, ending resolution functions, etc. Then I really have to tell you that you have to define your relationship to functions in terms of promotion, setting, taking down resolution with regard to the status of the person whether or not he's a pensioner. I'll tell you right away - somewhere around 1920 and some year, we're not heading for Bismarck in 1870. I know you know that, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, where there was some kind of social state and social democracy developing. There was a view that at the age of 65, a man loses his general working ability, because with that age he cannot be in the same physical and intellectual capacity with a man of 20, 21 and 22 years, 35 years and so on. That's why it's said -- it's a break-in year, after that year, you retire to spend what's earned. Is that right? That's right. That's what the books say. Now, new professionals appear who say – well, demographics, so development of production forces, so machines are no longer like the old days, so a hammer is no more than five kilograms but 200 grams, etc. Now they say, so we can extend it, because there is no money. You know 48% of the budget, or 48% of the government's budget needs to be provided in order to pay off pensions. This does not exist on the globe, the only worse situation is in this self-called Kosovo, where there is no pension system, but 40 euros in social assistance to anyone who has met the conditions for retirement. This government is leading this country into this situation, but there is always a principle question here – what kind of relationship should be with pensioners? It is not possible that some pensioners are desirable, and some are not desirable. For example, those who are in power, they are desirable. Do you know that Rasim Ljajic probably until a few years ago, perhaps even now exists, was a man of 70 and a few years who was led there as a child of a fallen fighter. You know, the child of a fallen fighter, what was 50, 60 years ago. Seventy-seven years old, and he's a child of a fallen fighter, and he's going to drive, and he's going to end up like a child of a fallen fighter. Then here we're talking about young people going abroad, where we're going to hire them, we're not opening new jobs, we're closing up existing jobs, because there's no answer from the authorities, there's no work to be done, there's no work to be done. The most important thing is to sell and put ourselves in charge. The more we sell, the more someone in power gets rich. If it sells less, we'll be in more debt. Once again, when we're in debt, we're thinking about our generations. Some count that our children will not be in Serbia, but will be there in the model case of the state of Belgium. They're going to be washing glasses for five euros an hour, and they're going to be washing for five euros all day. Very simple and simple. These are your epochal results. Then the question arises – what is the pensioner here. Is it possible by the act of retirement she lost all her abilities to be a member of the National Educational Council? Because there's some pressure, some kind of party, and she's in power, so they need to meet his need, so let's give him someaponage to be here, and it doesn't matter what he decides there, can the Serbian Croatian language, what do you want, be able to do in that council. Everything can be done. There's a wise state-of-the-art policy. The point of this policy - Achilles' heel. It's just amazing. And you expect complicity, to be applauded. What we could do about this, to commend you, tell me one sentence to commend you. So, pensioners are desirable if they're in the Authority, if they're in the Assembly, if they're in the structures they're supposed to give voting machines to support pro-European Serbia, they're thrilled with 2% of the pension increase, the epochal increase with superhuman efforts, rub their hands, we're all going to sell Telecom or something, so we're going to take something, and this lady, what about this lady? What is this breaking point of her inadequacy to be in one expert organ? Is it possible she forgot everything when she retired? She retired and forgot her profession. So how many pensioners work at colleges? How many pensioners work in companies? Not to talk about those who went into their homeland, so thanks to them and there's some crumb of agriculture in this country. It's the situation where you have this kind of power and you have everything under control. If the union wasn't under the control of Homeland Security, two million people would fly here because of a change in pension and disability laws. But under Orlovic's control, he's not lying. He wasn't the first, and before him, everyone was in control. And who he would raise from the factory when the factories were empty. Now explain it to me. No way. As long as we wait and wait, what do we believe, what do we hope for?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49389	Just don't insult the unions, they're really not in control of anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49390	What isn't?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49391	Well, you were saying who was under whose control, so you mentioned unions...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49392	How do you know it's not under control?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49393	I believe that...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49394	I'm better informed, Mrs. Djukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49395	You know what, I'm really close to unions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49396	He didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49397	Yes, it is. Because of the ideology I belong to, but it's not the time for controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49398	That's why they don't strike.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49399	Please, don't take it easy on me. So don't insult the unions. They're not under state control and they won't even be under state control until the situation is as it is. They are legitimate representatives of employees and are doing their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49400	Can I have Mrs. Djukic now?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49401	You've been talking for 13 minutes. Please re-apply now. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49402	Mrs. Djukic, don't defend the unions from me. The biggest opponent of the union. You know, 30 years ago, I was the only one in NIS who wasn't a member of the union. Please don't, I have the continuity of fighting unions, but to get back to who's under whose control the citizens of Serbia know. So you're going to have to ask these government people what kind of relationship they have to the pensioner's business ability? Do you listen to me, Mrs. Djukic, so you don't listen to me, and then you get a little teethy, and you hear something I didn't say. I'd like you to listen to me. So Chomićka's advocating you. So listen, maybe you'll learn something. Well, you're having a hard time with that. I know it's hard for Gordana to get into her head, I know it's hard to get into her head. You have to define why you hate this woman and you love Krkobic. You have to tell me why, to treat the pensioners in an objective way. That's what this is about. What's the reason? There is no institute in the law when someone exercises the right to retire from his post at the National Educational Council. You've seen for yourself that there's no official proposal. You forced yourself out of a proposal from the official promoter of the Employment Service. You got away with it. So you need to solve some kind of personnel problem. Is the future solution to this human problem going to be good for education or bad? Bad. That's after I convinced you, thank you for not punishing me.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49403	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. You've got 30 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49404	Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sorry that Mr. Zarko Obradovic is not present in the hall, because, among other things, he said in his morning discussion that one important liquid of his ministry, since he was a minister since 2008, and that some social groups are involved in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. that they were given the opportunity to school in the Republic of Serbia to a much greater extent than was present so far, so, among other things, in the context of these vulnerable, or sensitive social groups, he also mentioned Roma. I'm going to show you a document that tells you about the extent to which the government in Serbia, and above all DS, as the main institution of government in Serbia, abuses the Roma national minority, politically instrumentalises this famous inclusion of Roma and how, in fact, people who run this country and people who run certain local self-governments in Serbia are brutally playing with the fate of people who are really hard to live and whose existence is threatened. These days, in fact, some of the daily papers today write about the fact that a Roma baby is literally frozen. Now you'll see from this document what they're doing to you. Roma coordinators and what should this famous inclusion of Roma actually serve. The document is original. The document is absolutely authentic. When Mr. Zarko Obradovic comes to the O.R., if he comes today, I'll show him this document. If he as well as a decent and moral man can prevent such things, I think all citizens of Serbia, and especially members of the Roma national minority, would be truly grateful. "Republic of Serbia, AP Vojvodina, Municipality of Odzaci, Roma Office, No. 02/10, date of 21 January 2010, Odzaci", the letter was sent to the "Odzaci Sports and Business Centre" in Odzaci", reads: "The subject: Letter, Honors, the Roma Office of the Municipality of Odzaci will be promoted in co-operation with the Office for the Inclusion of Roma from Novi Sad on Saturday, at 1800 hours, by the Democratic Party, as well as the promotion of the former work of the Office. So I ask you to allow us to use your business space here. In the hope that you will meet us, a warm greeting. Roma coordinator Jelica Miskovic. "Such examples, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in all of Serbia you have as much as you want. It is best seen that it is not the people who lead the state of Serbia that really solve the problem that has a particular endangered social group, including Roma, but that certain social groups are being abused in the most brutal way possible in order to promote certain ruling parties. Is Roma in Vojvodina and whether Roma anywhere in Serbia is better because Serbia is in so-called Inclusion of the Roma, because there are so-called Roma coordinators, because there are so-called Roma offices? Is that why they're better? It's not. Is the Roma children better? It's not. Do Roma children no longer have to dig in containers and beg? Unfortunately, they have to. Why? For one simple reason - because the bodies created by this state and financed by this state do not serve to help the Roma in the right sense of that word, but you have seen what they are for, that the Roma office in time, otherwise the date is very indicative, is three days before this year's local elections in Odzac, so that the Roma office will promote DS. What does the Roma office have to do with any political party in Serbia? There's nothing. Roma offices and Roma co-ordinators serve to win Roma votes for a political party, for the DS. If such an example exists anywhere in any civilized country in the world, including EU Member States, here, tell me, I will be really grateful for that knowledge. But what is happening in the state of Serbia, unfortunately, is not happening anywhere. It would be good for Mr. Zarko Obradovic to deal with this issue, because, you know, the Roma office also deals with Roma children. In the category of Roma children, you also have those who go to elementary and high school. Is the state of Serbia to this extent bit into immorality to use...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49405	People's MP, please, no doubt you know the rule of Article 106 and that it is an obligation to speak on the subject of the agenda, the topic of the agenda is to resolve one of the members, or members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49406	Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about the subject of the agenda right now, because the Honorable Mr. Minister said that one important achievement of his ministry is the provision of sufficient resources, resources, capacity to involve Roma children in the education system of the Republic of Serbia, and that is nice and the SRS welcomes it, but, since the Honorable Mr. Minister also said that it would be good to hear the other side when it comes to the state's relationship with the Roma...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49407	National MP, you have not been given the right to a replica, nor to ask questions to the promoter, who, in this case, is MP Zoran Shami. You have received a word within the time available to the parliamentary group to speak on the subject of the agenda. Now I'm warning you to do it as long as you don't use all the time you have at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49408	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The next thing that is problematic from the point of view of the Ministry of Education, of course, I don't think that the Ministry of Education is responsible, but there is no doubt that what as part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a part of the responsibility, today we could hear from Mr. Zarko Obradovic that much has been done in the education of children in Serbia, both in primary and secondary schools, when it comes to mathematical literacy, and part of this mathematical literacy also represents the need to use computers and computer equipment. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contained in the new Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, namely in a set of these tax laws, which we discussed yesterday, to increase the value added tax, when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49409	People's MP, please, on the subject of the agenda. You keep breaking Article 106. Rules of Procedure. You're talking about a debate from a agenda that is currently out of progress. Points 15, 16 and 17 are special points of the agenda, such as yesterday's points of the joint principle search. The topic of the agenda is to resolve a member of the National Educational Council and to ask you about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49410	Mrs. Komic, I am deeply convinced that education in Serbia and that it has something to do with the fact that since 1 January 2011, computers in Serbia will be more expensive than...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49411	People's MP, education can have something to do with a variety of subjects. Yours and my obligation is to respect article 106 and point one and I to make sure that it is applied. The topic of the agenda is to resolve the members of the council, and that is something we can debate about within a time that is available to the MP, that is, the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49412	I'm really trying to talk about the subject of the agenda, and as you can see, I'm trying to express myself with very chosen words, especially the honourable Mr. Minister. I don't think I've offended anyone and what's most important...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49413	People's Messenger, if you had offended someone, you would have been warned. The minister has no obligation to be within this item of the agenda, as the proposal for a Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is MP Zoran Shami and has no obligation of business or any other minister to be present. Please listen carefully to the reminders of the Rules of Procedure. It is that you persistently violate Article 106(1) and do not want to use your MP group's time to respect that member and talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49414	Now I don't know if you and I are present in the same room. Tell me, when did I ask Mr. Zarko Obradovic to be present at the National Assembly Hall? I didn't ask. Maybe it's not his business obligation, it'd be nice to sit down, but since he's not already sitting down...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49415	People's MP, it would be even nicer if you didn't force me to use the obligation that the chairman has from Article 103 when the MP insists he violates a member of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you most nicely, but I'm really asking you, on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49416	Since I'm obviously not that talented...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49417	I would ask MP Zoran Krasic not to throw it away and not to be insulting to the deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49418	So, since I'm obviously not that talented to determine what the agenda really is, it would be good, Mrs. Komic, to write a synopsis about what we need to talk about, what words we can't use, or what social topics we can't talk about. I'll try to say a few more words about the issue of the National Educational Council, if Mrs. Komic makes it possible for me, if I don't - no one, any other time. So, I think the National Educational Council, and that's the position of the SRS, would have to deal with one important issue. This is of course not just a topic for the National Educational Council, it is a topic for the state of Serbia and its most scientific and cultural institutions. The point is that a few days ago, light saw something called a "Goreski vence" translation from Serbia to Montenegrin. I don't think such a phenomenon is recorded in the modern world. So, that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49419	People's MP, it's about a topic from another country. You cannot enter a topic of the agenda, even in such a wide port with a point called'resolvement of a member of the National Educational Council'. What happens in another country is their business, their parliament and their other organs. What we think about this can be a conversation in the Assembly when what the other state is doing, whichever is, is the topic of the agenda, and now it is the National Educational Council of Serbia and the resolution of a member of the National Educational Council of Serbia for retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49420	So, Mrs. Komic, if you listened very carefully, I was talking about the translation of a piece of literature. It's about a cultural phenomenon that has nothing to do with the state, which has nothing to do with parliament or the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49421	It has nothing to do with this session of the National Assembly, MP. Please. I am patient, and I find it unnecessary that at a session where there are three special points of the agenda of the resolution of members, we all show our views in parliamentaryism together. I'm sorry that you insist on it, but if you force me, then we will use everything that is our common obligation, in order for there to be parliamentaryism in Serbia, because what you are doing does not belong either to the theory or to the practice of something that is a parliamentary debate. So please talk about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49422	I admit that I really don't know much about parliamentaryism and parliamentary practice. Probably someone who's a physicist better aware of this matter than someone who's a master of legal science, but I'm going to try to complete this thought at the risk of getting a warning or maybe getting shot today, who knows. It is a phenomenon that is truly scandalous and the National Educational Council, as well as some other institutions in Serbia and the Serbian people, because you know that one language is not limited to state borders, the Serbian language is spoken in both Serbia and Montenegro and Republika Srpska and the Republika Srpska Krajina and the meridians of the world far away from Belgrade. So, to translate the work of one of the greatest Serbian poets from the Serbian language, in which it was written, into a fictional, politicized...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49423	People's MP, it seems our misunderstanding is so deep that it cannot be resolved otherwise than the duties of the Rules of Procedure before me. So, please speak either about the topic of the agenda or leave me no room for anything other than any mechanism that implies a reminder of the MPs in the most harsh possible way that he is obliged to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, because I do not want to participate in a play called the collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly, I will finish my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-24-0.u49425	If there's a person in this room who's grateful to you for that, then it's me, MP. I ask the other MPs to express their support for the chairman with less enthusiasm. It's not quite right. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (No) On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the proposal for a decision to dismiss members of the National Educational Council. We continue our work on Monday, December 27, at 10:00 p.m., by opening a search in detail on amendments to the draft laws that were the subject of our first joint search. Thank you.
