ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49107	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 93 MPs attend the session, and to determine the exact number of MPs, I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please MPs of identification cards to MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs have found that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Mladen Grujic. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Civil Servants and Directors. Since we've done a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The MPs Sasa Dujovic and Miletic Mihajlovic together submitted to the 1st amendment, with an additional explanation. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 11. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SURVEILLANCES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, he voted 121. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. . The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Prosperity Group, Serbia and MP Dusan Maric. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON COMPETITION OF THE COMMORS OF PARENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting this bill to the vote. We plead in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for the bill in principle. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Nikola Lazic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 1. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs. No one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the chambers of health workers, in general. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on the chambers of health workers. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PSYHOACTIVE CONTROLD SubstanceS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Milet Poscurica. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the 18th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 20th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted on Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 31st amendment together. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, 118 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 35th Amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 49. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 49th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milan Knezevic submitted to the 64th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 64, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 64th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Zoran Masic submitted to the 64th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 70th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 114 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The 71st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 76th Amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 84th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 85th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 95th Amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and together by Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic submitted to the 108th amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 109. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and jointly by Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, 115 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to Article 111. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. Please make a statement. Of 128 MPs, 93 for. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic to Article 114. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic to Article 115. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, no one for it. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft bill on psychoactive controlled substances in general. Please plead. Of 128 MPs, for 125. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on psychoactive controlled substances. As we now move on to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 5 to 11 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of the international treaty by majority of votes by all MPs. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to those draft laws, so the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. Rules of Procedure, on these bill proposals, vote only in general. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the European Convention on the Non-Aging of Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on amendments and additions to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on amendments and additions to the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina with mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia on extradition, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia of the Swiss Confederation on Social Security, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea, adopted in 1974 and the 2002 Protocol on the Amendments and Supplements to the Athens Convention on the Transport of Passengers and their Bags of the Sea, adopted in 1974, in general. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please plead. Of the 128 MPs, for 127. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 17 December 2010, at 15 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 96, paragraph 7. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please plead. Of 131 MPs, one for. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. (The session is over at 14.50 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49108	The eighth session of the Second Regular Session on December 22, 2010 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 14.50 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Mladen Grujic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for laws and other acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented with records of the Third and Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 14, 19, 26, 27 and 28 October, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 and 23 November 2010. Of the 130 MPs, for 125. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 14, 19, 26, 27 and 28 October, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 and 23 November 2010. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, held on 23, 24, 25 and 30 November 2010. Of the 130 MPs, for 122. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010 held on 23, 24, 25 and 30 November 2010. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda, a proposal to shorten the time for discussion, a proposal to combine the debate and a proposal to change the order of the agenda points. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group suggested that Serbia be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for nine. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group suggested that Serbia be put on the agenda, following an emergency procedure, – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. We're just pleading on the points of emergency procedure. So we're talking about the agenda, and in that period, no one can advertise the Rules of Procedure. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 22 MPs from the Progressive Group suggested that Serbia be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure -- a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Ministries, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for eight. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2010 (point 9 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for 119. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, according to an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2010 (point 5 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 124. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2010 (point 6 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 121. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2010 (point 7 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 121. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2010 (point 8 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 121. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2010 (point 3 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 119. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed to put, by emergency procedure, the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals on granting consent to the 2011 financial plans: 1) of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, 2) of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, 3) of the National Employment Service, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2010 (point 2 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for 122. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the State Council of Prosecutors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for 119. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for 117. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010 (point 9 of the proposed agenda). Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 118. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 139 MPs, for 117. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010. Please make a statement. Of the 138 MPs, for 117. I find the proposal accepted. Committee for the Education of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the Assembly list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2010. Of the 138 MPs, 117 for. The proposal has been accepted. Committee for the Education of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the draft decision on the discharge of members of the National Educational Council, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 May 2010, be put on the agenda. Of the 138 MPs, 122 for. The proposal has been accepted. Committee for the Education of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on the discharge of members of the National Educational Council, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2010. Of 137 MPs, 117 for. The proposal has been accepted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the termination of the post of Deputy Protectors of Citizens, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2010. Of the 138 MPs, 114 for. The proposal has been accepted. We're moving on to the proposals to supplement the agenda. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 22 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia on 16 December 2010. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? Yeah. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should think carefully before proposing the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year and fulfilling your promises made back two years about how you're fighting to reduce the state administration, a cheaper administration, a reduction in the cost of extra-productive activities, a reduction of the government that is a burden on citizens of Serbia, who buy daily bread and milk alone or don't buy that either, a reduction in the number of MPs, means the rationalisation of the state administration. I expected the draft budget to arrive after a proposal to cut the number of ministries, a bill on state administration and a bill on government. You stayed on the promises that you wanted to cheap the state, but you proposed a budget for a massive state apparatus that Serbia couldn't finance last year, and I'm sure neither can these. After this year, Serbia's budget will be spent on social contributions, pensions, salaries of civil servants and repayment of loans, annuities that arrive, you will not have a dinar in the register for any development project, or any chance for young people to start doing anything, creating a family, marriage, children, to live like all other normal worlds. We give you a chance to discuss these three draft laws, by reducing the number of ministers, especially the state secretaries, which you have over 110, to streamline the ministries, the costs, by giving up any political party from the government spending the budget according to their opinion, by giving up the competition next year in pre-election campaigns, by spending the state budget, to compete to make it better, to live better, we suggest we open up a debate on what needs to be cleared up in Serbia first, and this is about what kind of state Serbian citizens want and can support. We're ready to discuss the solutions we've offered you. We don't have the power and the power to order you to put this on the agenda, as justice laws have arrived. We don't do blackmail, so let's blackmail you into not having this or that if you don't fulfill a warrant. We're part of this society, we're the ones who want to beat you, we're the ones who want to inherit a country where at least something... I'm sorry if I overstepped a little, but I'm not answering all three suggestions. (President: three minutes. Finish it. I'm done. We're offering you an opportunity to talk openly about having the state arranged, to organise elections, to win the best, to run the country very responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49111	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. We understand. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Of the 145 MPs, 14. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Does MP Tomislav Nikolic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49112	Just for a little while, since you do not want to hear the arguments presented in the Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will hold a rally in Belgrade at the end of January. We'll try to convince you to start seriously thinking about the fate of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49113	I would like to put Mr Nikolic's draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, which Mr Nikolic has submitted to the vote. Of the 146 MPs, for 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration, which was submitted on 16 December 2010. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49114	At this rally, we call on all those who are dissatisfied with this authority to raise their voice freely and to say what they think of your tyranny over Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49115	You have no word, Mr. Nikolic, but I would like to put your proposal to the vote, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please plead. Of the 144 MPs, for 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed extending the agenda to the point of the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. The proposal was submitted on 3 December 2009, as well as to include this proposal in the agenda as the 1st item of the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to be a dilemma, this bill was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by our parliamentary group. It is quite unusual that he does not come to the agenda, a team before conditions are created to discuss him because the DRI has carried out an audit of the final account. Otherwise, according to the Budgetary System Act, it is necessary for the final account to be audited. The conditions were only created in 2008 because the DRI did the job, and it is necessary to discuss this law before the 2011 budget debate. In order to discuss how state money will be spent, we need to discuss how it was done in the past. It would be logical to also discuss the 2009 final budget account, but it is still not in the process even though the deadline expired on July 15th this year. But it is particularly important that we put this point on the agenda today, that it be an introduction to the budget debate and simply look at how public finances have been spent, especially if we make sure that it's a little less than half of what's been done in this country over the course of one year. It would be important to see what of these DRI remarks in place, because we got the story, worrying information about the Ministry of Finance through the main book of vaults, through the place where all finances go, that book doesn't run in accordance with the law. It would be interesting to see how it is possible for the 2008 budget, which was adopted four years ago, to significantly increase funding for local self-government over the 2011 budget. In the 2008 budget, 37 billion were allocated to finance local self-government, and only 32 billion on the agenda today or tomorrow. If we're talking about decentralisation, then it's a good time to see what the real reasons are. We received information that the public debt is not being conducted in accordance with the regulations and that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is showing it much smaller than it really is. There are a lot of topics and discussions about the final account, especially when there is a revision, it is a good time to discuss all these things in order to remove problems in the future. There's no quality debate about spending state money if we don't turn back and see how it's spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49117	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 170 MPs, 34 voted in favour of the proposal. I find the proposal not accepted. Group of 20 MPs of the DSS Group – Vojislav Kostunica, on the basis of Articles 92 and 168. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall propose to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Requests for interpretation of the provisions of Article 142 and Article 14(2). 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2010. Does Mr. Aligrudic want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. Please make a statement. Of the 164 MPs, 24 for. The proposal was not accepted. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92 of Item 3 and in agreement with Article 95 of the 7th indent. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to shorten the time for the debate, therefore, the shortened procedure, on a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS-JS parliamentary group. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. I beg your pardon. Of the 164 Members, for 126. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Penalty for the Crimes of Organized Crimes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Courts Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Visa Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Also, under 2nd, a joint principled search on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2011, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to financial plans for 2011: the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the National Employment Service; the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments, the Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Taxes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Taxes, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 163 MPs, by 122, the proposal was accepted. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he suggested changing the order of the sitting agenda so that the order of the first six points of the agenda would be the following: Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 161 people's MP, for 123. I find the proposal accepted. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda, a proposal to shorten the time for discussion, a proposal to merge the debate and a proposal to change the order of the agenda points, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. Of the 161 MPs, 123 came forward with a proposal. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 8th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 7. Proposal for a Law on the 2011 budget of the Republic of Serbia, with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2011: the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Health Insurance Institute, the National Employment Service; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, 9th Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, 10. Proposal for a Act amending the Act on value added tax, 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Excise Act, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing of goods 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. 14. A Proposal for a Decision on Changes on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, 15. Summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Higher Education Council, 16. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Education Council, 17. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Education Council, 18. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the post of Deputy Protector of the Citizens. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda, which should also be taken into account and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by written means, has withdrawn from the procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that, in view of the joint principled review of the draft law referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, I have also called for the members to attend: Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Slobodan Boskovic, Assistant Minister of Justice Zlatko Petrovic, Head of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Justice. I'd also like to inform you that today we will be working after 6:00 p.m. until this search is complete. We move on to a joint review of the 1-6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSES OF THE REFERENCE OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT, OF THE COURT, OF THE COURT OF COURT, OF THE COURT, OF THE COURT, OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY, OF THE COURT OF COURT, OF THE COURT OF COURT, OF THE COURT OF COURT, OF THE COURT OF COURT, OF THE PUBLICATION OF PUBLICATION, OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF COURT OF COURTAININGS, OF THE COURTAINING OF THE COURT OF THE COURSES, OF THE COURSE, OF THE COURSE, OF THE COURSES, OF THE COURSE, OF COURT OF COURSE, OF COURSE, OF COURE, OF COURSES, OF COURT OF COURT OF COURSE, OF COURSES, OF COURSE, COURSE, OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURIT, AND OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURN AND OF COURT OF CRIIT, AND OF COURT OF COURN AND OF CRITION OF COURIT, AND OF COURN OF COURS OF COURS OF COURS OF COURE OF COURITAL AND OF CRITUIT The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49118	Please don't count on me this time because there's an unprecedented mess here and you can't listen to suggestions. So, since the ruling majority has already decided to merge all judicial laws, that is, the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice into one principled search, and there is also a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, with all these five-law amendments and additions that we received last night at 21.00 p.m. to the offices of the parliamentary group. Probably the other parliamentary groups didn't get any better. So we had less than 24 hours to get to know them at all, let alone write amendments or something. It would be my guess that the ruling majority and present in this room, as many as are left, if we have a quorum to do so, would vote on a proposal to double the length of the debate for these laws, so that at least in a valid way all of this could be discussed. So I suggest that the time of debate be double from the time provided for in Article 97(1). Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49119	Okay, your proposal to double the time of the debate is put to the vote. I would like to make a statement about Mr Aligrudic's proposal. Of the 152 MPs, 52 came out. I find the proposal not accepted. In that case, time is arranged the following way... Mr. Zoran Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49120	We have warned you in good time that it is not right, while the head of the parliamentary group is explaining the proposal for a point to extend the debate that chaos is simply happening in this room. At this point, you have your cards in parliament, and it appears MPs are not present. So we absolutely had an irregular vote. Believe me, it is very necessary that you reset the system and allow it to be voted again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49121	I accept your proposal to determine the quorum first, and then re-enact your proposal, Mr. Aligrudic. I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I would ask you to help me put your proposal on the agenda in a proper manner. Do not draw cards if you want us to plead. We can't really say about your proposal because there aren't enough MPs, I'm sorry. [[DSS MPs are asking for a break.]] The break is out of the question. Why didn't you help us have the quorum and respect your proposal? Please, the number of MPs in the O.R. is sufficient, and your proposal is clearly denied by the MPs present. Don't put me in a position to punish you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49122	There's no need to threaten me with punishment, nor do I intend to cause any obstruction, to understand each other immediately. This is my call, and I won't answer this question again. I mean, I have a right to think that you hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and those members who speak about how to vote in the National Assembly. I mean, that's my opinion, that you're arbitrarily acting when, based on one vote request, whether it's a government request or a vote on agenda proposals, you're taking a break, you're doing it regularly, when you don't have enough quorum to decide something, and when the proposal doesn't go to favour the ruling majority, so there's no need for a voting quorum, then it normally continues to work. In my opinion, there must be one criterion equal for all voting situations. Make the ruling majority insert the cards, reject our proposal and move on normally. If you think things can end by simply missing the vote and finding that there aren't enough of those present, it's not right. Secondly, the cards still stand for MPs who are not present. It would be better to call this vote. We're asking for this vote to be done with a roll call. You have an obligation to do that when I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49123	Mr. Aligrudic, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I'm the president of all of us, and I can't make one, I can't force the other, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. I suggest, once again, that all those who are in the O.R. put their identification cards into the MPs' units in order to make a statement about your proposal. You best, Mr. Aligrudic, you know what it means to sit in an O.R. and not identify yourself as an MP, you often do that. I'm sorry you don't like the situation now when other MPs do. Of course, I don't think that's right. Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49124	I point out that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured here. Don't threaten to punish us at all. It may be our greatest punishment for living in this country run by this kind of government. I'm just warning you that the agenda is still in place and that each vote is an integral part of the agenda and that we are not people whose proposals you do not declare, you should make a statement about them. Stand by, against, abstaining, sit in the hall. We are the opposition, when we lead the state, no one will leave this room representing the ruling majority, because that is how we consider our obligation and our responsibility to the state. You think that all you have to do is vote what you have to put on the agenda and then everyone goes where they love, and let the opposition talk about everything and everything, and we'll only come when the vote is. Please don't threaten the punishments. You yourself know very well that punishments are not achieved. Especially not in this situation when there is a very tense situation in society and any punishment on your part can be seen as punishment by the president of Serbia, as he is leading all of your actions. So, please, agree before the session to patiently listen to the half hour of the opposition's proposal, there's not enough to determine the agenda, to start the debates, and then split up. Then whoever has the desire to attend or speak, he will speak, he will attend. But now you're saying it's not your fault that he's not going to vote for our proposals, it's at least underestimating our proposals. You're underestimating the government's proposal tonight anyway. It says the government delivered it to you at 1:00 yesterday. So what wasn't with us at 1:00? Who are you to arrive at your place at 13.00 hours and us to arrive this morning?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49125	It's been two minutes. I thank you, you've made yourself clear to me, I don't know if the citizens of Serbia, since you've raised some questions that are not really about the dignity of the Assembly. For example, who guides whom, or who is a model for identifying in work, etc. It's a question that can certainly be asked to you and not to me. I hope you're satisfied with the answer, and if you're not, do you want to vote on the day... ? You want to re-injure the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Please, just don't talk about the same content.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49126	You have no right to talk about my personality and who I identify with or not. This is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You do your job, not Tomislav Nikolic. If you want me to come to you as a patient, it's not done publicly, tell me somewhere in the hallway – Tomo, I think you're mature for me, I'll take it seriously, but I also tell you that I notice signs of maturity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49127	Mr. Nikolic, it's really not right. My guy's therapists don't call patients, they come alone, and it's not right to talk about it like this. Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49128	Infringement of article 107, violation of the dignity of the MP. I recognize your right to act in defense of your seeing the Rules of Procedure in every way, except in a way that offends the conversor. You have no right to say in the discussion, "you know best what it's like to work with an uninformed card." What do you mean, Mrs. Djukuć Dejanovic? The opposition has the legitimate right to express its political stance by inserting or not inserting a card. When we ask for a vote on something, we insert a card. Does the ruling coalition have the same right? But you have no right, as chair of the session, to manage the process in such a way that you will determine that at one point this non-insulation card is the reason to move forward with work, and in another situation, the reason that the session is interrupted and waiting for some quorum. There's a problem. So it's not a problem in anything else and you insult my dignity with your statement when you say – you know best what it means to do without a card. That's definitely not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49129	My new argument doesn't really exist. I think if I said, there is no new argument, I have already explained everything, and I would not want to insult the citizens of Serbia, nor the MPs by speaking more than once about the same content. We've actually adopted the agenda and I'm informing you of how much time the group has available. So: MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Pre-Serbia parliamentary group - 26 minutes and 24 seconds; DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 24 minutes; SPS - 18 minutes; LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia's parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that at this point in the daily redistribution group: MP Djordje Milicevic to the SPS-JS parliamentary group; MP Bojan Djuric to the LDP parliamentary group; MP Srdjan Spasojevic to the New Serbia parliamentary group. Any other suggestions? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 157(2), I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law amending the Courts Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Malovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49130	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this principle debate, I would like to make a few preliminary remarks on the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal for the National Assembly to consider and adopt them by an urgent procedure. Those draft laws, as a matter of fact, have been prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Let me present the laws that change and supplement, the laws of the judiciary, which are the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors and the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Taking into account all the open issues raised in Serbia's 2010 progress report, which was prepared by the European Commission, which concerns the judicial system, i.e. the issue of judicial reform and, above all, the procedure for the general choice of judicial authorities, the Ministry of Justice, in co-operation with the representatives of the European Commission, has considered ways to overcome the identified shortcomings in this process. To that end, the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia have stressed their full readiness to remove any doubts about the judicial reform process, and in particular doubts about the general choice of judicial officials. The first step towards correcting the perceived shortcomings is to create a normative framework that will allow the process to be reconsidered and, above all, to address the shortcomings listed in the report, which indicate the lack of transparency of the procedure, legal protection and the elimination of any doubt in any political influence when making decisions on the choice of judicial officials. To that end, the Justice Ministry, in direct co-operation with representatives of the European Commission, has drawn up draft laws governing the organisation of the judiciary and the choice of legal holders. Law proposals were also discussed with members of the Venice Council of Europe. As you know, the Venice Commission is the highest authority in terms of giving an opinion on the fulfilment of the Council of Europe's standards on the rule of law, constitutional and state regulation, as well as independence and independence of the judiciary. In this regard, both the representatives of the European and the Venice Commission agreed that the proposed amendments to the laws, which will be said today, would be the best way to legally, while respecting the full constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia and the rule of law, have been re-examined in the general election process, and in order to remove any doubt in this process. Let me first refer to the draft laws amending and supplementing the law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, since the establishment of a permanent composition of these bodies is the basis for conducting a review procedure for decisions taken by the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. The proposed amendments give the two laws the opportunity for a number of candidates to participate in the election process for election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in the judicial proceedings. The draft law provides that, in addition to a session of all judges, i.e. the College of Public Prosecutors, candidate status can also be obtained by the holders of judicial functions supported by at least 20 judges, i.e. 15 public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors of the kind and degree of the court or the public prosecutor's office. In this way, conditions are created that more candidates can participate in the electoral process, which achieves the possibility of better and better quality representation of judicial officials in these bodies. In addition, in order to eliminate suspicions of political influence on the election of election members from the judicial office holders, it is envisaged that only a candidate who has received the highest number of votes from his colleagues can be proposed to the National Assembly. In the event that two or more candidates get the same number of votes, a candidate who has performed a judicial or public prosecutorial post is proposed. Also, in line with the recommendations of the Venice and the European Commission, it has been regulated to allow only the holders of judicial functions in a permanent capacity. In view of the need for an urgent election of the permanent composition of the High Council of the Judicial Council and the State Council of Prosecutors, the draft law provides for the shortening of certain deadlines for taking electoral actions and a deadline of 60 days, from the date of entry into force, to implement the electoral procedure. Now, I would like to introduce the proposed solutions to the amendment and addition of the Law on Judges. The first paper provided for by this law is the right of appeal brought by judges to the Supreme Council of the judiciary for a decision on the termination of the judicial post. In this way, the High Judicial Council is given the opportunity to review its decision to suspend the court's office once more, in order to allow for the correct decision to be taken. Of course, after the decision under appeal, the judge may appeal to the Constitutional Court for a decision on the termination of office, bearing in mind that this is the right prescribed by the Constitution. The key provisions of the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Law on Judges shall be art. Five and six. Article 5 The proposal envisions a permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, which will be educated after the election of members of the High Council of Judges, reviewing the decision of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to suspend the duties of former judges who have not been elected in the general election procedure. In order to make legal and objective decisions in the process of reviewing the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, the judge shall have the right to become familiar with the case and documentation, as well as to make oral submissions. In view of the deblockation of proceedings before the Constitutional Court, it is envisaged that all proceedings before the Constitutional Court should be terminated by the law in force and that the complaints lodged are considered to be an objection to the decisions of the High Council of the Court of Justice on the termination of the judicial office, which will be decided by the permanent composition of the High Court Council. A special appeal to the Constitutional Court is allowed against the decisions of the permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is in accordance with the Constitution. It is also possible for judges who have failed to appeal to the Constitutional Court to object within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law to the permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Article 6 of this Act provides that in the event of a reason which points to suspicion of professionalism, competence and dignity of a particular judge elected in the general election, or where there are reasons to indicate a breach of the procedure in the decision on the selection of a particular judge, the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decisions of the first composition of that body. In the event that the review procedure determines the existence of reasons which indicate the irregularity of the election decision, the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will be initiated in accordance with the official duty of the discharge procedure. In this way, it will allow for insight into the work and decision-making of the first composition of the High Council of the judiciary and will finally remove any doubts in the general election procedure. In the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the case of reviewing the decisions of the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors, the same solutions were also contained in the Law on Judges. Public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors were given the opportunity to appeal against the State's Council of Prosecutors' decisions, which laid down the reasons for the resolution. It is also envisaged that all proceedings under appeal and oral complaints should be subject to the permanent composition of the State Council of Prosecutors for decision-making, for the same reasons as mentioned in the Law on Judges. The Permanent composition of the State Council of Prosecutors may review the decisions of the First Chamber of the State's Attorneys regarding the election of deputy public prosecutors to serve as permanent prosecutors, i.e. a proposal to elect public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors to be elected for the first time. In addition to the above, the proposal for a Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Regulation of Courts, proposed to postpone the application of provisions laying down the jurisdiction of the State Council of Prosecutors, i.e. the High Council of the judiciary on the proposal, deployment and supervision of budget spending identified for the work of the Public Prosecutors and Courts. Under applicable laws, these powers are to be exercised by the State Major Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary as of 1 January 2011. However, given that these authorities have not acquired material and technical conditions for the exercise of these competences, it is proposed that the Ministry of Justice carry out this competence by 1 September 2011. By adopting amendments and supplementing the judicial laws, we want to remove all doubts about the general election process. We believe that this will remove any criticism made by the European Commission in its annual report on judicial reform, as we will give full insight into the work of the first members of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. The process of reviewing the decisions taken will be implemented in a way that will ensure that all interested parties and the public have insight into the course of the proceedings and decisions made, thus creating an opportunity for the effective work of judicial authorities and strengthening the confidence of citizens in the judiciary. Also, this way, we want to create, by working with representatives of the European Commission, all preconditions not only to meet all the preconditions for obtaining a positive opinion on EU candidate status, but also to prepare ourselves for the opening of Chapter 23. Amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence for organised crime shall ensure that tasks in the criminal and correctional institution of a closed type with special security, in which a special department is educated, are carried out by staff specifically trained for these tasks. Given that jobs certainly represent a high degree of responsibility, expertise and training for work, we feel it is necessary to ensure that these jobs are performed by the most professional and experienced. In addition, the amendments to that law also specify the process of checking the property and security checks for persons performing this function, i.e. tasks in the execution of prison sentences for organised crime. In view of the fact that, in order to record property data for judges and public prosecutors, the Agency for the fight against corruption is competent, in accordance with special law, these persons are required to provide the Agency with the information provided for in that law. When it comes to the recording and checking of data for persons performing special department work tasks, the Director of the Criminal and Rectifier Office with special security, in which a special department is educated, the Head of Special Department and the person referred to in this special department, it is provided that the recording of property data will be carried out by the competent organisational unit in the management headquarters and that the verification of these data will be carried out, where appropriate and upon request, by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. This is necessary, given that it is for employees who have the status of civil servants, so it is proposed that they verify the data on their assets carried out by those ministries. The authorities that carry out security checks for all persons who carry out operations under the procedure of implementing this law have also been specified. All these changes will allow for an even more effective application of the Penal Code for organised crime offences, whose implementation so far has produced really good results. Finally, once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of all these legislative proposals, thank you for the attention and hope that, following the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted, thus creating a necessary regulatory framework that will allow the removal of all concerns and doubts about the judicial reform process and the general choice of judicial holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49131	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49132	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, respected Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us a set of judicial laws, I would say, of great importance. First of all, I would like to say that it is quite clear that in order to get a positive opinion from the European Commission on Serbia's EU bid, in addition to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it is of the utmost importance of judicial reform. We've talked about this and talked about it many times before. Also, I would like to say that when we have started the debate on a set of judicial laws within the Republic's parliament, we have made it very clear that by adopting a set of judicial laws, a quality set, it is very important to send a clear message to the EU on judicial reform in Serbia, that we need an effective and modern judicial system, an independent and professional judiciary, with full and full integrity, that we need to restore the confidence of citizens in the judiciary, i.e. that we have justice in which Serbian citizens will believe. We also said that justice reform also depends on the protection of human rights and freedoms. Bearing in mind that reform of the judiciary is primarily one of the conditions for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status, we have asked a very logical question at the time – will this condition be met in the area of justice when we adopt the proposed one, and today we have already adopted a set of judicial laws? I must say that a year after that, it seems to me that there are growing concerns about the future functioning of Serbia's judiciary. We agree that this is an area whose reform takes time, but when we felt in a certain context that we had brought a serious business to an end, today we are simply talking about amending laws that had to be at the very beginning, that is, when we started discussing a set of judicial laws. Of course, the European Commission's remarks on judicial reform and re-election of judges are considered extremely well-intentioned and that is the direction, i.e. a guideline to which Serbia should go in the next period of time. The proposed changes and additions that we are talking about today are a step forward in resolving all the open issues that exist in the judicial reform process, and therefore these proposals will be supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Club – the Unity of Serbia. We think it is very important that the representatives of the Justice Ministry, the European Commission and the Venice Commission have considered the working version of the proposed laws, as well as certain aspects of judicial reform, including the general choice and all that the judicial reform in Serbia involves. These are certainly our real and relevant speakers on this subject and it is necessary, therefore, with our partners from Europe, to formulate very precisely every next step Serbia will take and will lead to the realization of our goal. It's the only way to finally put an end to all those open issues, all those controversy over the general election of judges and prosecutors. So, as is said among other things, the content of the proposed amendments and the additions addresses two important issues: first amendments and additions to the Law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the State Council and the Law on Judges, will enable the primary selection of the permanent composition of the body, and the second issue concerns the process of reviewing decisions, as was said among other things in Ms Malovic's opening statement. When it comes to the first question, I would like to say that it is very important in the law, in the context of these amendments and additions, to find solutions based on the views of the Venice Commission, it concerns the specific composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary that candidate status can be obtained if the proposal is supported by a number of judges, the proposal which is formulated when it comes to the second issue is completely logical, bearing in mind first of all that the discussions before the Constitutional Court would take place until, as estimated in 2012, according to the complaints made, and the second review refers to the first time the elected judge, the judges who are on permanent duty, although the question of how much we could understand their expertise, and if the High Council finds these objections and that these doubts are founded, therefore, is being initiated. Given the importance of the topic that we are talking about today, we want to point out one question and simply give one conclusion, one suggestion, and two extremely important segments of judicial reform. First, when we talked about a new network of courts and public prosecutors in Serbia, we said that we support the goal that we want to achieve by adopting this proposal, so, to facilitate business, to increase efficiency, to improve the quality of court proceedings, so neither at that time nor at present was absolutely controversial, but we said that we could only talk about the quality of the law when they begin to apply practically, so through a certain period of time and we think we should also talk about the effects that have been achieved or have not been achieved by introducing a new network of courts and public prosecutors in Serbia. One more thing we think is very important, namely, it seems to us that the entire judiciary at this point, that a few days ago I was able to read it in one daily list, that the entire judiciary is at this point in some kind of V.D. the status and that it takes quite a while. So, by law as far as I know, all the representatives of the courts were to be appointed by the end of March of this year, I think only the Supreme Court and Cassation Court have a representative, or president, and everyone else has a function. It is our question – when there will be elections and who will decide on candidates for the president, the current or future composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And finally, as regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, I would like to say that the Parliamentary Club of the Socialist Party of Serbia – the Unity of Serbia will support this legislative proposal, because we believe that jobs in a special department, as among other things, require training, expertise and training, and it is necessary that they are actually carried out by the best employees, and of course includes certain benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49133	I give the word to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, from less to bigger. The word has Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49134	If something is good in this urgency that we are facing at the end of the year, it is that these laws appeared in the procedure within a relatively decent time frame compared to that session that we had ten or fifteen days ago, which was scheduled for the LDP initiative and whose primary goal was to come to a solution very quickly that will remove any existing doubts that are related to judicial reform. Of course it's not good that the law has appeared in the procedure of the last night, and that's what can cast a new shadow on the adoption of these solutions. At first, I must refer to what Mr Milicevic was talking about, and this is also about the explanation that you, the minister, have given in the light of these draft laws. I think it is not good to call exclusively for the European Commission's 2010 report, i.e. the EU's report, as if we are implementing judicial reform because Europe, or the EU, expects us to do so. I believe it's not your idea, and you had no idea that you were performing with it, but that explanation of this proposal exudes that. I would remind you that we have tried several times here to discuss those issues that remain open in judicial reform over the past few months and that we did so in June and July this year, when we also asked for a special session of the Justice and Administration Committee and that we did so ten or fifteen days ago, as I said. What is the most positive solution in this proposal is to accept the complaint that the LDP has had from the very beginning, which is to remove the subject of perfection, that there was no right opportunity to make objections to the practical first-degree decisions of the High Council of the judiciary and that they were the unselected judges, or those whose mandate ended the only legal protection they sought before the Constitutional Court. Before the Constitutional Court, the constitutional appeal is not a procedure in which answers can be found to those questions which may not be clear to the judges chosen and those which may have existed in a small number of cases. That's what the Constitutional Court's proceedings show. It is a good solution that these proceedings are returning at this stage to the High Council of the Judiciary, but it is very important that the resolution in these proceedings begins as soon as possible. I would remind you that one of the main complaints of the LDP was that the problem was solved as soon as possible and that we did not create a new possibility for the proceedings to be brought before the European Court of Human Rights, i.e. by the judges at one point in time. This applies to the review of decisions in both directions, both reviewing the objections and complaints of those judges who were not chosen and reviewing whether there is any other reason to resolve those judges who were elected a year ago. What is most important to us today is the credibility and complete accuracy of that sentence that you complete your reasoning, which is that with such proposals of the law the European Commission also fully agreed, I suppose the European Commission Delegation in Belgrade, but also the Brussels Office and the Venice Commission, because this is the problem that we had last time and one of the reasons why we spent a year and a half on several occasions dealing with this issue and why they were positive achievements, and these were the most. The reform of the judiciary was in some way questioned and threatened by the public and precisely because we had a problem practically in communication with the Venice Commission or in interpretation of the opinion that the Venice Commission gave at the first stage of the procedure in relation to a whole series of laws, particularly the laws on judges and on the High Council of the judiciary. So what's also important in the end, you're talking about the criteria for applying a practical Article 5. The Law on the High Council of the judiciary, which will soon after the start of the work, from your opening presentation, I realized that the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary, will start working somewhere in early March, if it is 60 days to conduct the electoral actions, that these criteria will be re-established in a way that is in agreement with what the Venice Commission proposes. Last time there was a problem, because in fact, in this regard, the spear will be broken, which is how the scope of the checks already made in the part where you talk about the possible existence of a doubt of impartiality, that is, in the procedure decided by the first meeting of the High Council of the judiciary. So, these are some of the answers that we expect with the repeat of the objection that I initially pointed out and the addition that, at this stage, I think, at least too much responsibility is being placed on the current composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and yet it is the procedure that has been implemented under a law that is not written and that is not real in that body, which has been changed several times during the proposal and during the debate in parliament, for whose content, if not for the application, I would say in good part and for the application of the responsibility borne by the Government and this Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49135	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed chairman, respected Serbian citizens, at the end of the calendar year 2010, when everyone in Serbia, Serbian citizens, realized that the reform of the judiciary in Serbia had succeeded in the situation today with these changes, we say that nothing was good. It particularly irritates the situation around the European Commission, that it has made certain recommendations. Let's not lie to each other about what the European Commission said we knew right after the election. It's been hiding from the public for a long time. Some things have been tried in walking to iron. However, as the old proverb says, what the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. There are some things we're trying to make out, but they're very difficult to correct. This situation and the Government and the motions of these amendments to the law have led the second situation to such changes, which are constitutional complaints, decisions of the Constitutional Court, and when one and another constitutional appeal took place in favour of the unselected judges, then we change the law more quickly and better, under the pretext that the constitutional judges are few, the appeal is much and that in some other way we have to solve it. How? By objecting to those unselected persons to the authority chosen by these judges, or not to choose. I ask the question – what is going to change? You will be held back from the first election, objecting to the High Council, and if it is not negative, you have the constitutional right to file a constitutional appeal. I'm just not sure that the organ that didn't choose these people is going to make a difference. So here's a clear situation. The constitutional appeal and the number of these constitutional appeals, the practical paralysing of the Constitutional Court, was found such a solution, and we saw a few days ago when the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was in the Assembly that something was misread, and then we go to this legal solution. That's the point of the problem. I would believe that there was not enough transparency, that we worked this change in March and April before the Constitutional Court's decision with individual solutions. Now we will come into one paradoxal situation, and this is the following – what happens if 700 or 800 judges who have the right to appeal are objecting and it turns out that most of them, because not everyone has filed a complaint, some have found employment in law enforcement, in some other jobs, if it turns out hypothetically 400 or 500 people competent? We had a reform of the judiciary. The main postulate was to reduce the number of judicial function holders from about 2,300 to 1,500. What are we going to do now if 2,100 shows up? What did we do? There is one thing in Serbia on the ground. This is a formal matter of whether we have 1,500 or 2,300 judges. Madam Minister, we have repeatedly pointed out this, currently in litigation proceedings, specifically in the King, were scheduled before judicial reform a month by month. You can check it out. They're now scheduled for four, five or six months' trial. Where are the citizens of Serbia who are pressured by huge court fees anyway? They are not in a position to initiate a procedure to exercise their right, and when they engage in all this, then they never end the process? I agree that that part of the legal solution, where it can be abolished once, and next time it must be decided, is a good thing. I can't criticize everything. I accept that guilty confession is a great thing to bring. But, Madam Minister, check it out. That doesn't work at all. When you suggest something like that, everyone looks at you white in courts. That's what's in the field. We can change here, fix things and deal only with some 500-600 unselected judges, but I'm asking a basic question -- where is the protection of Serbian citizens, because these solutions have violated the foundation of the state, and that's judicial authority? So, the legislative, executive and judicial authorities are the foundations of the state, and we have seriously rocked an important link called the judicial authority. I was expecting today, Madam Minister, to start talking about some important things that will really define the judiciary. Did we say here five or six months ago to pass the law on executive procedure, to try to make some solutions? I will believe in judicial reform then, I told you three or four months ago, when Serbia's citizens' court fees are charged at the end of the procedure, when all the parties finish, when they exercise their right, then of course the state should collect its court fees. Not to go with lawsuits, and unless a court fee is paid with 50% punishment for citizens of Serbia, who are objectively unable to pay that court fee, and those who pay everything, is in executions. I was expecting, there were some indications that we were going to make this law on the executive procedure, but as we see we have something, we're going round, we're deciding again on decisions. As soon as something changes again, it wasn't good. It doesn't matter if the European Commission did it, whether it was this one or that one. The greatest damage here is suffered by those who want to exercise their right when it comes to judicial authority. So there's a lot left to tick. Many solutions, Madam Minister, are very bad. I'm going to have to tell you again that it's unbearable what you are right now, no matter how much you think it is, and we all from Belgrade that it's a normal thing, that judges travel from place to place. It is not normal for people to choose in certain areas for prosecutors 100km in another city for reasons not to suffer pressure in their city and that is some kind of fight against corruption. If someone's corrupt, he's corrupt in Zajecar, he's corrupt in Bor, he's corrupt in Šapac, it doesn't mean where he performs his function. I'm convinced that whoever lives in his town, who performs the prosecutorial office in his town, he has to think fat about whether he's doing it in a safe, honest and honorable manner. When he goes to another town, you know, it could happen that -- well, I don't live here, and maybe I'll finish some work. That wasn't a good excuse, but that was the main excuse why you said you moved certain people to other cities. If I tell you that some people ended up in some cities, that they didn't apply at all, it's also known to everyone. I'm not thrilled with this, that the objection solves things. I can't accept that if someone has already filed a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, they'll take the obligation. Practically, this will be treated as an objection? That can't be a solution. It could be something for future time. If someone filed a constitutional complaint, it must end. Some kind of legal solution for the future is fine. In addition, one of the important things about non-transparency is that judges are not invited to talk. I'll remind you here, and I'm sure, I think you're correct, that New Serbia has just submitted an amendment saying that at least five minutes of candidates are calling for a conversation. That amendment was rejected. You know, one of the basics when you enter a court, the one who has contact with the court is that when you see that man at the counter, it's very important except for knowledge and some figure, some attitude, some behavior. You've been around it a little bit. One of the very things of the European Commission is that. There's a time to listen to the opposition. I think we've had enough time. I think the full reform of the judiciary was done quickly. This was supposed to work easier, because it's a very sensitive branch. I can't blame anyone until the end, because it's practically facing one of these choices, whoever works, would have some problems. If someone didn't listen, who could point out that it was easier to do it, something would do biology. Biology in terms of pensioning certain persons, some people might recognize in some of the things that are going to happen, maybe someone wouldn't want to travel to another city, so he'd go to law school early, he should have done it a little easier. It has been done over the knee and, in practice, since judicial reform, we currently have nothing, except that we are again dealing with something that should have already been done and that certain laws are being passed that will really change the judiciary in terms of the best interests of Serbian citizens. Once again, we have to point out that, a fellow SPS colleague, apparently, I don't want to repeat myself, has to get rid of the V.D. The state of the President of the Court. It's something that was objectively long ago needed to be done. Of course, I don't want to repeat, there are certain choices that are extremely problematic, of course, not ours in parliament to assess it, but all the arguments that have been made, I won't repeat them, regarding the basic court in Novi Sad, one process that was, where we put it all last time before Judge Mesarovic. It's the face re-elected. We will surely take whatever is lawfully allowed to point out to the High Council. You're probably forming some disciplinary court or something already for the assessment of someone, that's really scandalous. Once again, I'm going to point out that the reform has not been well done. In particular, not only to criticise, I am asking the Minister of Justice a concrete question --2011. on January 1st, are prosecutors in Serbia ready to begin their investigation? That was the amendment we went through, did you change it in the meantime or not? Yes, it is. Okay. If that's the case, then fine. I think that, in any case, by talking to my colleagues in the D.A.'s office, right now, it's really something that might not work. Madam Minister, once again, it is not good to hide behind the European Commission alone. We have much bigger problems here. Simply, what the Constitutional Court has begun to bring in favor of the judges, I think it has forced both the government and you to pass one of these laws, in a way, to help the Constitutional Court unload some cases, which, probably many of them, would not prejudge, would be completed in the same way. I don't like the fact that through this law everything is supposed to be resolved by object. Finally, again, if you decide negatively, the unselected candidates will have the right to a constitutional appeal.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49137	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49138	Madam Minister, there's something I have to commend you for, at the very beginning of the debate. A little over two weeks ago, we had a debate that one parliamentary group initiated about the state of justice. On this occasion, by discussing with us MPs, you said that at the most recent time before this National Assembly a package of law in the area of justice, which will address those burning issues, the key issues most frequently raised in the European Commission and the Venice Commission's reports, which are largely burdened by the Council of Europe's monitoring reports on Serbia as areas where we have not made significant progress. First of all, there was thought of this famous re-election of judges who, first of all, are shown here by the High Council of the judiciary, and often on your part, in a formal sense as a general choice, but in a fundamental sense, what actually happens is a kind of strange lustration. I say weird, because she didn't have clear criteria. They were not known to the public for a longer period of time with common known objectives, a policy established by certain bodies which, under the Constitution and the law, have been given the authority to do so and to do so. What the Venice Commission resented, among other things, are two groups of issues. The first group of questions concerns the legitimacy and composition of the bodies which decide in the procedure. The second group of issues concerned the very course of proceedings and the way the re-election procedure went. You have tried in one package of laws to answer both questions, to answer the question of the legitimacy of the organ composition. Here, above all, in my discussion, this refers to the composition of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, who decide on the election, i.e. re-election and termination of the office of prosecutors, deputy prosecutors, or judges. The second aspect was an attempt to correct the process that was under way, that is, behind us. This is the procedure of re-election of judges themselves, namely the termination of office and the election of judges. It's a second try. This first one has been solved by a novelty of the provisions on the composition of these organs. The other was getting rid of, as far as I can see here, by this process of resolving this issue of election of judges in a different way being regulated, with certain elements. I'm not saying it's a retroactive norm, what you've brought, but with certain elements of retroactivity, which I'll deal with in further discussion. The key question now arises – did you manage to solve the problem with these amendments of the law? According to you, you were doing it in agreement with the Venice and European Commission, there were contacts, some work versions of these texts were submitted to the analysis and, as far as I hear from you, and it says in the explanation, you got some positive opinion for that. The key issue here is this - we do not aim at this discussion on judicial reform and individual procedures, in order to realise this reform, to bring our moves into line with the European Commission's position, the Venice Commission. It's our place to listen to them. It is our job to pay attention to their remarks and make sure that what we are doing here does not go against their views because it will cause a major problem for Serbia in the near future. However, it is our responsibility to take great care of both the internal integrity of the system and the constitutionality issue. If we are not taking care of these two moments enough, believe me, neither the Venice Commission nor the European Commission will take much care of it. They know what the objections were. The people of the Society of Judges jumped because of the way this re-election was made. The professional public rebelled, a single atmosphere was created from which it was seen, and eventually, when it started in the process itself, it was seen that there were certain shortcomings and attempts by the Serbian government to respond by removing the shortcomings and giving material to the Venice Commission and the European Commission, which show that there is a serious attempt to remove irregularities will certainly come upon a good reception. But let us today in this congregation talk about whether or not the solutions that you have given us for adoption have been offered. So, in our deep conviction, the solutions that you've given us for adoption in no part of your good are good solutions, and it's not really going to seriously improve the situation we're in, but it's going to help create some confusion in interpreting and reading the norms of our legal system. Ever since I've said something here about my profession in terms of legislation, in terms of how I write legal regulations, I've always taken care of recommending, I suggest writing standards that will be simple for law school students, when they study them tomorrow, and for those who apply the right. If we're trying to remove the shortcomings by writing jumbus regulations, where a man has to open four eyes, scratch his head, and read four sentences for hours to understand what the poet wanted to say, believe me, the attempt is vain, then something's wrong. I'll be very specific when it comes to the objections we have. The first remark is highly formal. We can't lead this debate, nor can we successfully point to the shortcomings, as we see them, of these draft laws, if we don't have the time to do so elementally. The debate in the Assembly is one thing, this ongoing debate that citizens are now watching, that's one side of the story. You don't work, Madam Minister, in the Assembly here, it's not just your job to sit here and listen to us and answer our questions, and it's not just our job to come here this day when it's transferred and talk to you about this. We've got work to do before this day. We also had work to do this afternoon, yesterday and the day before. We had one obligation to communicate with each other in the most harsh way, and the written not only unwritten obligation was violated by the fact that a concrete adoption proposal was delivered to us yesterday night, which was possible only this morning when they came to work, which we are discussing this afternoon. The deadline for amendments, therefore, if we do not like something in this text, the deadline to submit the amendments has been set before this debate begins. Now you can imagine how awkward this has put MPs in, when it is known that another great law in this assembly, and this budget for 2011, has also come with a great delay and left a commitment to those MPs, who want to react by submitting amendments to that budget, to write these amendments in an extremely short time. It is a kind of campaign work that has been imposed on lawmakers, which has been caused by the promoters, which is absolutely unacceptable in a serious normal society in which dialogue on key problems, as well as on problems in the judiciary, should be encouraged. It's kind of an objection. The other kind of objection is essential, now we're going to the essence of things. So, as far as the way we're building the organs that we're talking about, which are supposed to do their job, we don't have any major objections here. What you wrote, it's pretty much on the trail of what were the basic objections. It hasn't answered all the questions and all the problems involved, but let's put that aside as a minor problem right now. It's not the biggest problem right now. The problem is another nature. If we want to fix something that is said to be based, because if there was no basis you wouldn't have these bill proposals in front of us right now, but you'd say – sorry, we don't know what you're talking about, there was no problem, you're dreaming about it. Why change anything? No, you came with this shift because you're aware there was a problem. Then you decided to correct them in some way that you or someone who wrote it to you in the ministry, and you looked at it, approved and released it to the government, made it the simplest thing. Unlike my previous speakers, who obviously haven't noticed or noticed, but who think they're irrelevant to these mistakes, I find them extremely important. First, it's the starting point of what wasn't right in the earlier reelection process. If the re-election process wasn't working, he left his suspicions about how it was done. It continues to question the Venice Commission whether it is a classic lustration or a political setup, when it comes to the election of judges etc. It's questions that float. Do you really think that these issues will be removed by changing the procedure, by imposing a complaint against an unselected judge or judge whose term of office has ceased in the election procedure before bodies such as the High Council of the Judiciary, by practically extending a period of debate through that complaint to that authority itself, and then going to the Constitutional Court with appeal. Do you think that only this procedure, which practically points to individual cases and violations in these individual cases, is sufficient to answer the question that has been asked to all of us? It's not. According to our deep conviction, the answer had to be general, with a simple short standard that, in principle, lex specialis, restitution of the process. What did you do? You've done one thing that obviously, I can see, with surprise looking at me, has made me a brilliant solution to patch up the problem. You did the next thing, now I'm going to try to represent it simply, because I believe these people who are in the best interest of the profession are watching this, not everyone will, of course, understand because it's professional terms. But what am I supposed to do? When someone is in the re-election process and is not elected, so a decision is made that his court office has ceased, that's enough, that someone has been made available to appeal to the Constitutional Court. He exercised his right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has yet, for example, failed to decide on his appeal. You have foreseen this law - that from the moment of entry into force of this law, which is the day of the publication of the "Official Messenger", his appeal is no longer an appeal before the Constitutional Court, but is considered an objection before the High Council of the Judiciary. Now watch this. At the same time, you, in the position of Article 1 of this Law, say that the decisions of the first Chamber will be, and in translation, the decisions of that re-election which are spoken of all the time and which are under the bat of the public, that they will be reconsidered. You don't say how many, you don't say by any standard. The only possible interpretation of that provision is all decisions. Now look at what a strange situation we're in. You have someone who has not made a complaint, or appeal to the Constitutional Court, and his decision will be reconsidered. It will, it says here, by law enforcement. That's what you wrote. If you didn't want to, write it differently. I'm really sorry, but it's written well-- in Article 5, Section 1, here, now we're going to read it, it's very simply said like this. "The permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decisions of the first Chamber High Council on the termination of the judge's duties under Article 101. The Law on Judges means, all those who are subject to this criterion, in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity, which will bring a permanent composition of the High Council of the Judiciary in the future." So when they do, they can question it, but everything, you don't have any selection. When it comes to Article 6, Article 6 states – a permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decisions of the first composition on the choice of permanent judicial office all, meaning not individual, but all. Look, this one who filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court in the meantime, that appeal is considered an objection. What's the job of the new High Court Council? The job is to consider the appeal, which has actually now been turned into an objection, and this is the process of the one who made the constitutional complaint end. When a decision is taken by appeal, in accordance with the other provisions of Article 5, the decision of the High Council of the judiciary against it will be deemed to be a forceful one. He who has not made any complaint or objection will have, he will get his decision, so that the decision, because everything has been reset, because when the decision is reconsidered, some decision has to be made on that basis, so he will reconsider. If by law as an organ I have an obligation to reconsider the decision, I will take the subject and I will look at the subject, and, I will conclude, there is or no basis for changing the attitude, but it is also, again, under this law, which you are probably not aware of, a new decision. Such a decision under the same Article 5 has the right to object. So, one of them will be denied the possibility of going with another complaint because they have complained to the Constitutional Court, and the other will have one right that others do not have and vice versa, or even those whom you have not respected may be entitled to a new objection by you. So, what's this about? Maybe not, but these are such misunderstandings here, such misunderstandings that they can't survive as this kind of text. In a grammatical sense, you would have to explain exactly what you wanted in answer to our questions because unfortunately I don't see it from this text, so that we can agree, if we are well-intentioned to ask the committee in charge to come out with the amendment in the meantime to fix this text, so if we all agree on what you wanted it to be right, to write it human. What's a flaw in a procedure like this? Between you as Minister, Government and us MPs, this haste, I have commended you, it is good that you came with the law as soon as possible, but the flaw is that the return-application through matters of assembly procedures has been delivered this way, because we are losing the opportunity for you to come to the parliamentary club of parties, even the party of the ruling coalition. A few members of the ruling coalition, I won't name them, it's not fair, but people told me they don't understand what you wrote. Was it not fair to come yesterday and explain the solutions to them, to come to us at the Parliament Club and explain the solutions? You know, how can we have this discussion? When I spoke here and made objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, those who chair think I'm doing it to interfere with the debate. No, I'm doing it to prove that we can't really seriously discuss the important thing if we treat each other that way. That's the essence of the whole story. You here have the position 6 - in the proceedings under the object of the position of the 3rd and 4th of this member, the judges of the 1st Article have the right, the judge who is the candidate, to get acquainted with the case, the documentation and during the proceedings, as well as to present his allegations orally and before the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary. So he has the right and the right to do something, if he wants to, because no one calls anyone, he has to sign himself up. He says, I'm sorry, please listen to me, but it's not right either. You have to establish a rule of conduct, everyone gets a call, so if they want to come, if they don't have to end the story. You can't, you know, he has the right to visit you and say two or three, but what it looks like. The decision of the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary taken by appeal must be reasoned in accordance with Article 17(2). The law on the High Council of the Judiciary. Now against the decision of the permanent High Council of the judiciary made by appeal there is only an appeal to the Constitutional Court within 30 days. My question to you, which is a complete misunderstanding, is very simple, is it that if I am a candidate, if I have filed an objection, or an appeal to the Constitutional Court which is considered an objection, then it is decided by that complaint, do I have the right to a new objection? Probably not, but I'm going to the Constitution. Now, look at this, now I'm being questioned by the decision as the elected judge, so a new decision is made that I had no right to do so, and I end my term of office according to my first degree, I go with the appeal, respect or disrespect, and if not respected, I go to the Constitutional Court by 30 days. How can you not see that you have placed two categories of persons in the same procedure, thanks to, in part, retroactiveness, by applying your provision in an unequal position? That's not possible in the legal system. I'm telling you this most well-intentioned. You can't do things like this. What did we suggest? Maybe that's not the happiest solution you've ever given us, we've worked so hard, maybe we should sit down and fix it. We have suggested that you reset the matter completely and allow the decision to be taken through certain criteria, similar to what the Judges' Society has proposed, at the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors through certain criteria, with respect to the principle of regularity and then to make decisions whose fate would be as provided for in Article 148 and Article 161. The Constitution. We don't see that this objection itself has solved some problem. So, one other composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but it's not the other composition, it's just a enriched and relatively modified VSS composition, so you're telling me now that it's going to be changed, now they're going to settle by objecting to the decision of the previous constitutional appeal that will turn into an objection. Look at what another contradiction is, which I pointed to at the very beginning, which is that people have the right to trial, have the right to predict, because it is assumed that the course of the trial and its protection. If someone has started protection from the Constitutional Court, it is not right or constitutional, and this can be proven, and in a later debate we will do so, that their right to half proceedings is suspended by law and that something else is done with this complaint, regardless of what you can interpret, that it adds another joint to his legal protection. It's unnecessary, it's annoying, and it really can't solve the essence of this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49139	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard the third time to talk rationally to someone who doesn't lead reason. It is really hard to discuss the law and the idea that should have led those who entered the re-election process or the choice of judges or the resolution of judges. It is really hard to prove to yourself why someone has not listened to you for a year and why the European Commission has not listened for a year, since you, Mrs Malovic, only state the report, the final annual European Commission. You didn't mention in December that it wasn't right, you were also warned by those reports that were hidden from the public. You didn't react then. You thought it would pass. At the time, it was not important to meet the conditions for us to join the EU. Today, in your explanation, you are telling us that this is a condition that we need to meet so that we can count on EU membership. Why haven't we met these conditions in a year? The laws are as if they were written tonight and delivered to the MPs tonight, unserious for serious people. I don't think there are any members of the ruling coalition for that either. They are ashamed, because you had support when you passed the law, and today you have to get support, when you change it completely, when you change the meaning, the way people in this Serbia are being discussed, because by choosing the judges, you didn't just endanger the ones you chose, you endangered those whose fates and lives they chose. You're responsible if the unworthy judges did their job. For every illegal sentence, you're responsible. You are responsible and if a worthy judge lost his job, for every contempt he has caused in his city, it is your fault, Mrs. Malovic. I was telling you something similar here when you first dared to propose that law to us. You're not yet in your age when a man realizes the seriousness of his position. You've become a minister of justice too soon. You could have been for infrastructure, whatever you wanted, and for justice, someone has to judge, someone has to be the best judge of any court, someone has to be the best professor of law school, justice. It can't be someone who wasn't in the business of deciding justice. Here's how justice is decided. So, what's important about the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors? Personal composition. It's not the organs that do their job, it's the personal makeup. You have no continuity. You say - the permanent composition will decide the decisions made by the one who wasn't permanent. Well, the one who decided people's fates, too. You say -- new regime, old regime. When you say that to a normal man, he says, "What does that mean to me?" Is that one country? Did that state have a government, so it has a government, so it's going to have a government? To me, it's all governments. No new regime amnesty due to the old regime. There is no amnesty of the permanent composition of the High Council or of the State Council because it was not in some permanent composition. So when he wasn't in constant composition, what did he choose people for? This is one twilight of the party court. You've made a party court, and here's his twilight. Cover your ears and keep quiet. When judges tell you that you've done not only human rights violations, but that you've violated the system, you don't care. When the MPs tell you that... Please keep these board members quiet. When judges tell you to be chosen or unselected, you don't care. When the MPs tell you that, you don't care. There is a third finding of the European Commission waiting for you to worry. Then, you don't like the Constitutional Court decisions. Who's the one who can say that he doesn't like some court decision? That's what you tried to say about the decision of the International Court of Justice, so we had to amend you in every sentence that you commented on how that decision of the International Court of Justice would work. It'll work as the court's decision. You can't even get involved in Lap's judgment anymore. You'd like to get involved in everything alive. What's he saying here? The proceedings are being brought back to the Constitutional Court, the State Council of Prosecutors or the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. How can you play with the Constitutional Court? Is this the Constitutional Court Act? Will this law define the Constitutional Court as to how it will act? Will this law define which case the Constitutional Court takes into account, which it does not take into account? Or is that the Constitutional Court? But you acted here yes when Mrs. Mesarovic said that the judiciary was an independent organ. I say, "No, it is not, but independent, and you say, "No, no, independent." Is that right? He who is independent is also independent. I should teach you Serbian. He consumed independence in independence. Who can explain that to you? When did you even do that? Now what's the new High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council? Inquisition. Whose decisions are they questioning? It is not true that they are reviewing the decisions of the Supreme Judiciary Council in the provisional composition, or as you call it, or the State's Chief Prosecutor. He examines the decisions of the National Assembly, for you have played with the National Assembly. You packed it all up and gave these gentlemen here to vote. These are the judges elected here. Those who could now stop being judges were elected by the Assembly. Now, with the decision of the High Council of the Judiciary, they will cease to function. Those not elected by the Serbian Parliament may become judges thanks to the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or prosecutors of the State Council of Prosecutors. What'd you get yourself into? You've made oatmeal. What is the National Assembly for you? A place where your will is done. But this seems to be where the European Commission's will is being carried out. Otherwise, you would never have delivered these amendments here. You wouldn't give any unselected judge a chance to wash himself in public. You don't care about that. However, when the European Commission said it was wrong, suddenly for the night. I said the other day – before the budget we will have these laws on the agenda, because I have seen the European Commission's determination and the obedience of the heads of parliament's ruling majority groups. It's said, done. At night, you deliver us a bill of law involving hundreds of thousands of people. They're not human to you. I'm really asking you to make sure I'm talking without anyone throwing it at me. A board member throws it to me. You have a board meeting, so you can work it out there. (President: fellow MPs, please do not disturb Mr Nikolic, and do not address the challenges to anyone. So, you said in the opening statement, I really don't think long about talking, this is going to end as you intended, whether you told me or not, but you just said one thing that hit me as a man, you said to remove these shortcomings. For you, this story of the choice of judges is engulfed by shortages. What faults? It's devoured by illegality. It is devoured by violations of basic human rights, devoured by the violation of the personal reputation of the most honorable people in Serbia – the judge. If, Mrs. Malovic, as a Serbian citizen, I come to the situation that I have no confidence in the judge, and in whom will I trust in Serbia? To politicians who are being replaced by governments? People's messengers who vote as they're told? The new owners of the company who fired all the workers and shut down all the factories? In foreign policy that changes in 15 minutes? You've held out for a long time. The foreign ministry changes its decisions in a matter of days. You've lasted a whole year with your illegal law. Somehow you did it, I don't know how. These poor people change the letter, the mailman hasn't even arrived at the UN yet, and they're sending another letter, so they're begging it not to be handed over. I'm sorry to have to talk about you, but it's not your fault at all, there's a secretary of state worth more than you do, they mean more than you do. It's not worth it. I can't say it's worth it. It's not your fault at all, but you want to get on that bike. Now you're playing in that car. You've made a mess of justice, you've robbed many people, you've raised many incompetent and unworthy people, the prosecution is in mourning, the judges are in mourning, and you have no trials anywhere in Serbia. You say – only when the rules of the High Council of the Judiciary are established, and they will be established when judges from the judicial system are elected. When's that gonna be? How long until this is fixed? The years will pass. That's why you pay illegal incomes to people who aren't chosen. You are not sure that one day the court will not tell them – pay them back with interest. That's why the auditor can't ask why you're paying for it. How do you spend government money on budgets? Under the government's regulation, you've passed the law. You think the public will find sympathy for giving people some money. No, it turned out to be unsympathetic that you drove them out of work. You haven't told either of them he's unworthy. You haven't proved one of them. No one could justify himself in front of you, asking you why he wasn't elected. Many lawyers have taken the judiciary into your own hands and you know it well. They're hiring hundreds of lawyers and hundreds of judges, and we're here to discuss laws that will restore honor and dignity, to reform the judiciary. I'm listening to an SPS MP, he's not happy at all with what you've done, but now he's going to vote to get better. Nice. And you are not pleased that you have proposed the first law, and now you are happy—you have proposed a good law. Only someone made you do it. Just somebody hung up on the pot so the money wouldn't come out of the pot. To tell you the truth, I'd be ashamed to be part of it. I would be ashamed to be an MP to the ruling majority and to participate in this, but there is no shame in this ruling majority long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49141	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49142	Dear Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure, the sentence "did not lead you to reason when you passed these laws". So, we, from the DS, are always guided by reason, and when we propose some laws, and when we explain and defend, we always do that with all our senses, even when those who run with all their heart run against us, we go with all our senses, and we beat those who walk with all our heart. I must say, I've been distracted by a sentence that someone has become an early minister of justice. I think that Mrs Malovic has become a minister of justice at the right time for this country, for the justice system of this country, because I am not ashamed of any law that I voted for in this House and I do not feel ashamed or ashamed of it, but it is good that some people, at least in the old days, become aware of the fact that there is a word of shame in Serbian, so let them stand in front of the mirrors, let them wonder what they were doing in the past, in the recent past, in some distant past, and let them wonder what that word means. What I'm saying is that we really need to defend the integrity of this assembly and the integrity of our MPs, because we bring all the laws to our senses, our senses, our knowledge and our education. We never bring out white paper to international representatives, so we tell them - write down what should we do? We try to do something ourselves, even if it's on white paper. I'm sorry if someone wants to now in the old days to demonstrate their knowledge from law school, which he didn't have when he had the chance to exercise power in this country. I'm sorry if some people don't understand the reforms we're conducting, but I'm sure we'll be doing the hard and responsible work in judicial reform the way we need to be done professionally, responsibly, and we'll leave something to future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49143	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49144	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I will read to you Article 103, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic: "The MP has the right to point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and a session of the National Assembly that is under way, immediately after the injury has been done." What did Mr Milivojevic hold against you? Am I the president of the assembly? Please be careful, or run the congregation... (President: He spoke of the dignity of the Assembly. That's not true. He was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (President: It could be concluded that he meant the dignity of the Assembly. ) The 107th is the dignity of the Assembly, and he spoke of Article 104. Please don't argue over what's a notorious fact. Please, when someone points to you on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, tell him "I hurt" or "I didn't," not "Mr. Nikolic is old, he's late, he's embarrassed". It's all right for the replica, it's not for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I can say here about many people a lot, but I've decided to be nice, to banish this last battle of mine to the end, to take you out of power. I'll take it all, I'll put up with it, you'll hit it from there and you'll get it from there. This is far more important than my integrity. Please, keep your integrity, be the president of the National Assembly, not the one who commands the people of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49145	I'd have a comment, but I'd rather not comment. Are you looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to be declared by the MPs? You're not satisfied with my explanation? You're not looking. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the first item of the agenda, the relationship on the draft law set from the first item of the agenda, can be said. I'll start with what some of my colleagues have already pointed to, and these are some procedural failures related to today's session. In fact, if you look at the bill of law sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will see by the reception stamps of the National Assembly's office that they were received on 21 December 2010, so yesterday and all of them, behold, were received at the same time at 13.00 hours. At 13.00 hours, the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors was adopted, at 13.00 p.m. the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts was adopted, at 13.00 p.m. the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, at 13.00 p.m. the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Prosecutors was adopted. We don't think it's possible, under current regulations, that all these billings in the National Assembly office are accepted literally at the same time. This is neither possible nor legal, it is not possible according to the calculation of deadlines, or it is not possible according to some astronomical or calendar criteria. The gap between receiving these draft laws in the assembly procedure had to be at least one minute. What's weird about it? It is strange that Mrs Gordana Comic proposed to the president of the National Assembly on 21 December 2010 to change the order of agenda items. Do you know what time it is? At 13.45 p.m., it means 45 minutes after these bill proposals were reportedly all literally at the same time, received at the National Assembly office, and the MPs, speaking on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, received all these bill proposals only after 9:00 p.m. last night, rather, the bill proposals were accepted into the MPs' club, and the SRS MPs could only get acquainted with these bill proposals this morning. Now the question arises whether there are privileged MPs in the National Assembly, or MPs of the First Order and MPs of the Second Order, and those MPs of the First Order get proposals of laws coming from the Government immediately, or after 45 minutes, and everyone else gets from about eight, 12, and 16 hours later? That's not correct. If you take any state and law theorists, any constitutional law writer, read Slobodan Jovanovic, read all the other major legal theorists, it says there should be parliamentary proceedings and none of them say that the parliamentary procedure should be swift, that dozens of laws must be passed within one day, that MPs have two hours to write amendments. It doesn't say anything. Whatever good textbook you have to take in your hands, they will tell you the same thing: the parliamentary procedure should be slow, the MPs must come from different sides, from different aspects to illuminate what is on the agenda. We were physically unable to get acquainted with the content of the bill, let alone write quality amendments. That's not good. He entered the National Assembly, as some historians would say, "a Cuban spirit from the period after World War II". The communist used to brag about how many cubics can load sand, gravel and asphalt, and now we're boasting, when I say, I mean the ruling coalition, how much law we've adopted under that Cuban principle. What are our laws? Bad. In one year we change the same law five times, because we adopt laws quickly, without leaving enough time for the MPs to get acquainted with their content. The Serbian government also works hastily, sending to the assembly procedure unsettled text of the law, inaccurate, unclear, with material errors, with a range of language errors, etc. What's our legal system? Bad. As for these draft laws we are discussing today, in 20 minutes it's very difficult to say all the shortcomings in these draft laws. I'll point to a few things. For the SRS, he is a troubled member of 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Article 5(2) states: "The proceedings under appeal, i.e. by constitutional appeals, which the judges of Article 1 of this Article have brought to the Constitutional Court, end with the effect of this law and cases are subject to VSS". In the SRS' view, this is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it suspends citizens' right to file constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, and not only to file but to have the right to receive the Constitutional Court's ruling under the constitutional appeal. Will these judges have the right to receive a Constitutional Court ruling according to their constitutional appeals? It will not, because the procedure under constitutional appeal before the Constitutional Court by force of the law will be suspended and then there will be one substitution of jurisdiction, rather than the Constitutional Court, as it was at the beginning of the case, will now be the High Council of the judiciary and will be practically this way for one category of Serbian citizens, all those dissatisfied judges who were not satisfied with that first election by the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, will be prevented from obtaining the final decision of the Constitutional Court in the proceedings under the constitutional appeal. There's one more thing that's a problem here. Yesterday, media reported that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia made one decision following a constitutional appeal by a judge who was not elected in the re-election process. One judge received a ruling under his constitutional appeal by the Constitutional Court. When this law enters into force, other judges who have not been satisfied will not be able to get a decision from the Constitutional Court, but will get a new decision from the Supreme Council of the judiciary. What does that mean? This means that two different authorities decide in the same legal case, on the one hand the Constitutional Court, and on the other hand the High Council of the judiciary. It neither complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor is it in line with some basic legal principles. What else is controversial here? You, Mrs. Malovic, as a government brought into a very strange situation, have been put in a position to bring you the disregard of European standards in the area of judicial reform to the American ambassador for insight of the stenograms from their press conferences. You have experienced that people who have claimed that the EU is a satanic creation today accuse you of not respecting these same EU standards. What does the SRS have to say about this? Neither are you, and especially are those who criticize you. Why? Here is an elementary question – is Serbia a sovereign state? According to what we see in the light of these draft laws, it turns out that it is not, it turns out that these laws are passed by an emergency procedure, quickly, because the EU therefore believes it should be done so too. The Venice Commission, it is a jargon term, and its full name is the European Committee for Democracy through law. Now I have to tell you, Mrs Malovic, that various European bodies dealing with the law have failed the exam these days. These days and domestic, including world media, announce that EULEX knew that Hashim Thaci traded with the authorities of Serbs who were abducted at KIM between 1998 and 2000. When I say that Eulex knew, then that means that she knew the EU, that Bernard Kouchner knew, too, that is what many who are allegedly calling for these European standards. If the EU knew and if this Venice Commission knew and if EULEX knew that it was traded with the KIM authorities, or in Albania, then the question arises – why would anyone in Serbia do anything because the European Commission or the Venice Commission think so or any other body outside this country? If you take the Constitution of Serbia, it does not say anywhere that the National Assembly is passing laws because the European Commission means this or that. It's just that we're depriving ourselves of sovereignty. Are the laws in the area of justice good? They're not good. This is what the practice showed, and this is what the SRS told you in 2008, when you passed the judicial laws, but we did not refer to the opinion of the European Commission, we did not call for the opinion of the Venice Commission. We told you that judicial reform is not good for many reasons. The first and basic reason – those who entered the judicial reform did not know what they wanted with the reform to achieve. That's why the laws are vague, unarranged. That's why our law in the area of justice is against each other. As the great German poet Gete said, it can't be clear on the paper if you're not already clear in your head what you're trying to say. This is what the Serbian government has done in a very dramatic way over the past two years. As far as this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, we have not received an answer to a simple question – does this country have a problem with the fact that no one in Serbia will guard the Legion? It turns out that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Penalty for the Crimes of Organized Crime is passed on account of the Legion. No one's gonna watch him. You are like the Government in the explanation of this bill in an indirect manner and you have admitted – there are not enough people to work in the special department of the Criminal Penalty Administration, which means in that department that guards people who are convicted of organized crime, their personification, the personification of all these convicts is Milorad Ulemek Legion, a hero on October 5th, I have to remind you. Milorad Ulemek the Legion on October 5th was no terrorist, wasn't a criminal, wasn't a mobster, wasn't a member of any Zemun clan. Milorad Ulemek The Legion was a hero because he failed to obey his boss Slobodan Milosevic and because he made it possible for him not to act in accordance with the applicable regulations to take over the DoS in an unconstitutional manner. The same Milorad Ulemek Legion becomes the national enemy number one only three years after October 5, 2000. Why am I saying this? To show you on the case, very plastic, that the government in Serbia has not led a consistent, uniform and fair fight against organised crime since 2000. You, a criminal and a criminal from the world of organised crime, declare a man only when he resents the Serbian government. As he listens to the government, as he and the government enters into various types of agreement, public and secret transactions, etc., he is a businessman, no one can do anything to him, he is a respected citizen of the Republic of Serbia. When he comes into conflict with the government, it is only that moment that he comes under the threat of criminal sanctions in the Republic of Serbia. Would you like another example? When Vojislav Seselj published his famous book "Stanko Subotić Cane – Cane Zhabac King of the Duvan mafia in 2002, all the DOS leaders claimed that this was not true, that Vojislav Seselj was lying, that he was misleading the public, that he was spreading the panic, that he wanted to discredit the new democratic authority that was established on 5 October 2000. Today 2010, the same Cane Frog must not in Serbia give an interview to any radio-television station, but does so in Switzerland. The question is, why? How is it possible in 2002 that this man would not be a criminal without being a criminal in 2010, even though nothing had changed in the meantime? All that Cane Frog did in 2002, that's what he did in 2010. Who is this who in Serbia is making a selection among criminals? Who is he who has the right to say - there are our criminals and those who are not ours, there are similar and inappropriate criminals. As long as they're ours, while they're listening to us, while they're providing us with a large amount of money, they're not allowed to do anything. When they object to us, then we make special laws, we form special courts, and they are prosecuted by special prosecutors. That's how things are today when it comes to fighting organised crime in Serbia. That in Serbia not that organised crime is not rooted, but that it flourishes, especially in the city of Belgrade, I will now show you, Mrs Malovic, on the case of a Belgrade firm. It's the Montero firm. On June 29th, this year, the National Assembly passed a famous law on the incentive of the construction industry in Serbia at the time of the economic crisis. All administrative procedures have been carried out to begin with the construction of 400 apartments, of a total of 58,000 square metres in the territory of the Belgrade municipality of Vozdovac, i.e. in the area of the former barracks "Step Stepanovic". Serbia's construction directorate, who was the bearer of the whole job, announced that three firms -- "Monter" from Belgrade, "Ratko Mitrovic – Dedinje" from Belgrade and "Bankovic" from Montenegro, won the tender. Who owns the Montera, Mrs. Malovic? The owner of the "Montera" is Goran Kopcalic, otherwise former president of the City Committee DS and former vice president of the Municipality of Zvezda. He is the godfather of former city manager Bojan Stanojevic, who was an alpha and omega for many profitable projects in Belgrade and who has withdrawn from politics into private business. Kopčalic has something to do with the illegal privatisation of "Trubnika". Today, workers of the "Trubnik" protested, or strike in front of Dinkic's Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. What's wrong with this company? The Serbian Radical Party reached a contract that "Montera" concluded with the Serbian Building Directorate. It is a contract bearing the number 113,754 as of 22 November 2010. The value of the 862.750,000 dinar contract, i.e. with VAT more than a billion dinars. What's the problem? On July 7th 2010, the tax police filed criminal charges against Kopcalic and his closest associates on suspicion that they had been committed, according to the tax evasion, unfounded harmonisation of the amounts for return of taxes, tax credit and non-payment of taxes, which reportedly damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget for 404,000 dinars, i.e. around 4m euros. The accounts of the company "Montera", Mrs. Malovic, are constantly in the blockade. In 2010, this company was blocked for 162 days. You can check all this on the National Bank of Serbia website. So, a company that in 2010, in which it receives a contract to build apartments, in a 162-day blockade, signs a contract with Serbia's Building Directorate. It's contrary to the basic legal principles. It's absolutely harmful to the state of Serbia. Is there any example from the European Union, where a construction company that has been blocked for 162 days, which means that in 2010 it was blocked every other day, gets a job worth more than a billion dinars? There is no such example in the European Union, and you, even if you are in favour of the European Union. In the Penal Code for the Criminal Crimes of Organized Crime, you have put in place, among other things, the property cards of people working in the special department of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, among other things, to be delivered to the Anti-Corruption Agency, as you say, in Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia respect the decisions and recommendations of the Anti-Corruption Agency? He doesn't respect. Does he respect the decisions of this agency, all those republican and all those provincial MPs from Vojvodina who are in conflict of interest? They don't respect. You have more than 30 people today, which is the province's MPs who are in conflict of interest because some perform two, three, some even six or more functions, which are incompatible with each other. What is the role of the Anti-Corruption Agency when it comes to the execution of a prison sentence for the crime of organised crime, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia and if the assembly majority of both the Serbian Parliament and the Vojvodina Assembly are doing everything possible to discredit the same agency? In the absence of time, I will finish, but before I finish, I would like to say that because in the state of Serbia full of 10 years, one unfair, one selective, one city-wide fight against organised crime, because judicial reform has been carried out in haste and because changes in judicial laws now seem to be made, not because it corresponds to the state of Serbia, but at the orders of the European Union, the Serbian Radical Party will not support any draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49147	As no one appears among the heads of parliament anymore, we move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. I give my word to Vice President Judith Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49148	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I would like to point out that the Liberal Democratic Party will support this text of amendments to the judicial laws for several reasons. First, I would point out the fact that the LDP supported the reform of the judiciary, which was launched by the debate of a set of judicial laws as early as 2008. We felt that reform of Serbia's judiciary was necessary. We felt that this reform of the judiciary was one process and that the process could not be completed overnight and we felt that judicial reform was of vital importance for the citizens of Serbia, for the whole state, therefore for this society. However, during this year, which is slowly approaching the end, certain problems have been raised in implementing a set of judicial laws, so on the same reform of the judiciary. We reacted back in the summer of 2010. We asked for a debate on the implementation of the judicial reform, and this November too, we proposed a thematic session that would also discuss judicial reform. Our starting point was that it was necessary to take the whole issue seriously, that there was no place in the day-to-day policy aspect, and there was no place for politics when it comes to justice and the reforms that are under way. At that time, we asked that all the reformers who are obliged to implement it, to plead and determine, so that they respond to criticism, to obstructions, to a stalemate that was evident in terms of judicial reform. We asked that those factors, or those who, in the main role of the implementation of this reform, remove any kind of suspicion of any kind of irregularities that have become dominant in the media, to do something about this reform of the judiciary that is stuck in the deadlock. We are pleased that these laws came to the Assembly's agenda even in an emergency procedure because they only prove that the LDP was right when it asked for something serious to be done throughout this year in terms of judicial reform. We believe that some of our concrete suggestions to these bill proposals have been passed. We believe that these laws will make a good contribution to continuing the process and avoiding this situation when the public is no longer sure whether we have any reform process at all or all that just comes down to a decorative story. I would also like to underline the fact that the LDP and then, when it was discussing laws that had to be significantly better than they were adopted after that assembly debate, pointed out that we would enforce the laws, so this state and this society, and that these laws must take care of the reality, the life that is taking place, and that they cannot remain a dead letter on paper and a clean declaration, but that they will have to have contact with real life and those who will feel those laws on their skin. The fact that today, a year after the judges entered this procedure for the general election, we have come to the point of asking whether the High Council of the judiciary was working as it should have been. Is it necessary to reconsider some decisions, namely the general choice of judges, that perhaps when we supported this reform of the judiciary we were underactive, or not strict enough towards those who should have made sure that the laws were at the level of standards and practices of the Council of Europe. But whoever's doing it is wrong. It is perfectly normal that when such a serious reform is entered, it can be expected that certain gaps occur during the implementation of these reforms, i.e. the need for some solutions to change. It's the same positive side of these laws that are on the agenda today. So, it is good that the self-criticism that the promoter accepted, because by proposing certain changes, he also accepted the fact that there were obviously errors, that certain laws did not meet the very level of EU standards and practices that are still our ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal of the reform is for Serbia to win EU bid. However, I would like to point out one fact. In fact, it is not the only reason that Serbia, or this parliament, must, or should, adopt these amendments and supplement a set of judicial laws. It is not only the EU that is our ultimate goal. For us, the ultimate goal above all is that our judicial system, our legal system, develops to that level to really be in the interest of the citizens to whom this judicial system applies. So, the interest of citizens is in the first plan, and normally it is necessary to take care of what the European Commission proposes, in which way it considers it necessary to improve certain laws that have been passed in this area. Therefore, the LDP will support these laws. It will support for this reason because it believes that judicial reform is an inevitability, that it is a need that, without reforming the judiciary, we cannot expect foreign investment, we cannot expect any economic prosperity. I'm glad that during this month, there was a fact that I was saying that the courts in Vojvodina are among the best in the country. I'm glad that the economic courts in Somboro and Zrenjanin are at a very high level and are declared the best economic courts. I'm glad the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is also praised as being extremely good. So, all of what we were saying during the debate on the 2008 set of judicial laws, all of what we were saying during 2009 and 2010, when we criticised that certain legal solutions, i.e. when we supported the government's concrete moves and efforts on judicial reform, were obviously in place and apparently that this process must be approached much more responsibly, much more concretely and more clearly, with much more elan and energy than it has been the case so far, because unfortunately the criticisms are not always constructive. Criticism is often an obstruction. That is why, in order not to set fire to ordinary criticism, concrete proposals and concrete solutions need to be made, because only in this case can we expect results. In addition to supporting the reform of the judiciary, the LDP supports the further course of this process, which we assume is still a lot of challenges, but since it is such a serious process, it is inevitable that the challenges exist, and it is only important that there is political will and people who are willing to engage maximumly in this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49149	11 minutes and 30 seconds of MP time have been used. The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, and after that, MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49150	The Honorable President, Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2008 in the fall when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – then we said, our MP group – quickly and unthinkably entered the reform of the judiciary, we pointed out all the key remarks that today are completely wrongly trying to get rid of this set of laws. We said that the quick process of reforming the judiciary is something that will lead to an extremely bad procedure. Now you're trying to remove these bad consequences even more quickly with this set of judicial laws. What we heard from the proposing representative, Minister Malovic, is that this set of laws removes the objections made by the European Commission. I mean, and that's what the DSS was talking about when she was fully looking at the reform of the judiciary in 2008, that's not true. Anyone who has read more carefully what the European Commission report says sees that you have left out today also in the light of the bill's proposal and the alleged removal of the consequences of a series of problems that the DSS pointed out in 2008. Mrs Malovic, the European Commission, and the DSS spoke of it, said that a large number of pending cases, that the number of judges was reduced and that the reduction was based on an inadequate analysis of needs. They said that you forced the court staff to travel from courts to judicial units and that it requires huge costs, and it is also about concern for the safety of judges. That's when we talked, and I'm asking you, why don't we have today's amendments to the laws relating to the network of courts? This is a key observation made by the European Commission. It is terrible that what the DSS MP group said in the National Assembly of the RS was not enough to listen to us in 2008 and to create an efficient network of courts, but you did quite the opposite thing, which is to listen to the European Commission, although DSS MPs have been very argumentative and specifically said where the problems are. The case seduction system says that no proceedings relating to the economic judge have been brought into effect. A series of problems that are beyond this issue relating to the choice of judges remained the focus of those who criticised you, and the same remarks were made by the DSS in 2008. Thus, not that you did not remove this problem but that you kept it silent in the National Assembly today. What is particularly concerned is the explanation that we received as MPs in the National Assembly of these laws. I must express a slight surprise that, in the light of the proposal of this law, you say – judges who were not re-elected could only appeal to the Constitutional Court. Look, this court doesn't have the capacity to fully consider these complaints. Gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitutional Court Act speak of jurisdiction, procedures before the Constitutional Court. We are here not talking about the capacity of the Constitutional Court but about the obligations and jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. You are speaking here, changing the law, changing the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, defined by the Constitution and the law, because the European Commission report says that the Constitutional Court does not have the capacity. That's absolutely amazing. It's another humiliation we've experienced here in the National Assembly getting this kind of explanation. A particular problem is the fact that you, changing the Law on Judges, create a complete confusion and legal chaos. You will have several categories of unselected judges who will have different opportunities to declare different legal medicines. Some of them will be deprived of making statements. One who has declared a legal remedy will decide on their legal remedy at the same time as they decide on their status over and over again. Others who have not lodged a legal remedy, when deciding on their status, will have the right to both legal remedy and appeal to the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, whose right has already been resolved, the Constitutional Court will have no right to declare neither the objection nor the new constitutional appeal. You put in an unequal position people who, by bad criteria, are in a very bad way, politicized by procedure, remain outside the possibility of explaining their right to be elected. Therefore, if we are talking about removing the problem and returning the entire procedure to normal track and creating a serious judicial system, change everything that the DSS has told you. It seems that people in the European Commission have been reading what we've been saying and they've implemented it all. You'll see through my colleagues' discussion that you literally copied the amendments that we pointed out to you in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49151	The used time of the parliamentary group is five minutes and 30 seconds. The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. After her, MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49152	In the work of this call for parliament, it is a regular phenomenon that lawmakers by the authorities are being humiliated, that they are in some way not fully respected. I have to say it's scandalous what happened today, that it literally crosses the bounds of insolence. It is not only a shame for this parliament, it is simply not only for parliamentaryism in Serbia, it is a shame for those who fully blindly and unspeakably execute executive powers. Of course, I'm talking about how the session came about, when we got the drafts of these laws and how much time we had to discuss them in the first place. Late last night, at 9:00 p.m., we received information that on today's agenda, in addition to the law on the execution of prison sentences for the organized crime to find five more laws in the area of justice, and that none of us of these bill proposals, not just us, it may be a minor problem, nor did the professional public see even in the form of a draft. Of course, that wouldn't be unexpected, because these are things that have happened before in this House, if it weren't for a judiciary that no single mistake, given everything that's been done so far, can't take any more. Instead of being taught the criticisms that, I agree, are very harsh, but at the same time and justified, with due care, you have approached the amendments and additions of these laws that we are discussing today, you have decided for who knows which time you have decided to go past the professional public's voice without going from one mistake to another. Recently, the Serbian judiciary was under discussion before the European Parliament and the European Commission. I'm telling you, he's also going to be in front of the same institutions. This time, because you, minors without debate, tried to smuggle, deliberately use this term, laws through the Serbian parliament. In addition to a series of mistakes that you have made and which has led the reform process in Serbia to its complete absurdity, you and today in this way, completely hidden from the public, i.e. from the professional public and running away from the debate, are sending a clear message that even today you do not know how to get out of this problem and you clearly say that what you are doing today will also have no positive effects. Before I go to the analysis of what you suggested to these bill proposals, I must say that I was indescribably happy while reading the explanation of these bill. At one point, it seemed like you were quoting some of my previous speeches when I was talking about the judiciary. Unlike my luck, there's only one fact here that concerns itself, and that's that only after a year you've realized what you've done with the judiciary. Now you're trying to remove those mistakes by saying that the High Council of the Judiciary will review every decision he's made and not just the judge who's been chosen, but the judge who's been elected. Of course, this would all make sense, and I would absolutely support your position, if the whole procedure in which those decisions were being made wasn't full of irregularities. When the High Council of the Judiciary decides in incomplete composition, when some of the members of the High Council of the Judiciary are in the obvious conflict of interest because they participate in the election, or in the promotion of one of their close relatives in several judicial matters, when clearly past the Constitution and by law the decision is made that the work of the High Council of the Judiciary becomes secret, when no discussion is applied, when no candidate is discussed by the High Council of the Judiciary, then I can say that this procedure in relation to the mistakes themselves and the imperfections themselves has gone so far that the only thing that at this moment can partially correct the situation is a complete revision of the procedure of re-election of unselected judges. As far as you don't know how to get out of this situation and how you don't know how to get back, I'd say it's quite slanted and so to say the secret and permanent lost trust of the citizens in the Serbian judiciary, it is best to suggest that the constitutional appeal, or appeal before the Constitutional Court, be treated as an objection to the decision of the High Council of Justice. Of course, you're moving on. You say the objection will also be decided by the High Council of the Judiciary. We have a phenomenal situation, the High Judicial Council has made a decision on the non-election of certain candidates for the judge. The same body that participated in the choice, i.e. the non-choice of that person, is now being objected and also decides on the object itself. This, Madam Minister, is not an administrative procedure. The fundamental human rights are at great risk here. You can't have a legal option, nor should you have the courage to do such a thing, to even a constitutional complaint in a legal manner with one objection. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. This makes you clearly fall into another big and fat problem. Of course, it's true, not to say legally inventive, but it's legally inventive in that sense how inventive and that fourth criterion that, truthfully, was unofficial when it came to re-election of the judges themselves. I'm talking about a marriage relationship between a lawyer and a judge as a distraction for the choice itself. I'm familiar with a lot of cases of judges whose spouses are lawyers, who are the only reason why they're not chosen to be legal holders today. I also know that a large number of lawyers in the last quarter of 2009 applied for a release from the Bar because their wives were candidates for judges, but immediately after the final list was published, they re-applyed for registration. Is that the consistency you were talking about? In the end, I just have to ask you, since I asked Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, she tried to answer me that I was wrong, but that I was right to confirm the information I read today in the paper, which is that as assistant minister, she was appointed a former judge who unfortunately did not pass the re-election, although she met all the conditions to be found among the elected judges themselves. The explanation that came from the Justice Department says that she was not chosen just because her husband, although she met all the conditions, was a lawyer. That's it. I won't owe more because of the time I'm due, but I have to tell you, that primarily to the professional public, I point out how much they really need to have confidence in the publicly spoken word of those who participated in the Serbian judiciary reform process.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49153	Eight minutes and 10 seconds the time of the parliamentary group was used. The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49154	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, the honourable citizens of Serbia, to begin with your vision, this is a 20-20 Serbian document, which represents the concept of Serbia's development for the next ten years, which made up President Tadic with his team. There are preconditions for meeting Serbia's development goals by 2020. Strengthening the constitutional and political position and authority of the National Assembly, as a democratic national representation, i.e. the highest representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority, is the basis for building a democratic society. It is of particular importance to build and affirm an effective system of parliamentary control over executive power. Let's see what it looks like in practice. This is a bill, in procedure, downloaded last night from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where there is primarily a strange order. Namely, on December 18, a month and a half late date has passed since the budget of the Republic of Serbia, six accompanying laws and PIOs that you have, unfortunately, united, followed by August 27th, so that is the date when the Law on the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, which was otherwise put on the assembly site for the intervention of DSS MPs, was not on the assembly site. Then there's a miracle that's never been seen. About 4:30 a.m. on the Assembly site, there's five laws in the area of justice that we're discussing today. The strategic document for 2020 stands - one of the most important objectives and tasks in the coming years is the construction of a modern judiciary, as an important assumption of the rule of law and the effective protection of constitutional freedoms and the rights of citizens. It is necessary to remove any doubt as to the possible influence of the political authority on the choice and status of judicial holders. We also received late last night a draft agenda and a proposal to unite certain points and to change the agenda points. Six points have been united in the area of justice, the budget, following laws and PIO, I don't know in which parliament in the world is going to discuss the budget and pensions together, but Mrs. Comic, what you suggested last night, it's a shame and a shame. Just like what was heard in the transmission, it was what the citizens of Serbia could hear, when you publicly acknowledged the presidents of the assembly that the ruling coalition MPs were not in the room, and that their cards were standing there, but we will try through Mr. Shabic and all the services to get that footage, so you will hear that the National Assembly is running, but that we are not wasting time. When we discussed the laws whose changes... (President: Please do not violate the Rules of Procedure, do not address any of the MPs directly and do not consider your right to violate any provision of the Rules of Procedure because you have estimated that this is appropriate to you for the context of the discussion. Please don't count the time, because if you... ) It is my time that belongs to me and my parliamentary group, not your time, Mrs. Komic, so I ask you to give me back 20 seconds and move on. (President: People of Parliament, you are required to listen to the warning. You are required to listen to the chairman's warning the moment you violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The time that the chairman will spend explaining to you what the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure is not the time to be measured, nor is the Rules of Procedure defined. What are you here for me, Professor? You may experience your role as a mother, dad, and head of school here. I don't need to hear any of your arguments. I want to talk to the justice minister who's here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49155	People's MP, I'm warning you now. People's MP, it's not about your needs. It's about my obligations. It is my obligation when the MP, in the heat of discussion, excessively violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, thinking that he can violate provisions that clearly state that direct address is forbidden, which clearly state that the president, who is the chairman of the National Assembly, is obliged to remind the MP of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is also obliged to address everyone with respect both verbally and non-verbally. You see how your fellow MPs are on my side with applause. Give it up. Give it up. Give it up. You have one warning, so please. People's MP, no rude gestures in the National Assembly. National MP, no rude gestures, both you and your colleagues. No rude gestures in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hall. It can be done in the hall, maybe on the street, at any place where you're allowed to be boastful and rude. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go, MP, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49156	Dear Vice President, my background, education and education do not allow me to speak to you this way. I'm just asking you to give me back my time. (President: National MP, I now warn you the second time that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not allowed, it is forbidden, direct address to the Members of the People. ) (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: You address directly. ) (President: National MP Zoran Nikolic throws away, it is also forbidden. ( ) Can the Assembly declare this in the day of voting whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure or not? (President: People's Parliament, you are now insulting the Rules of Procedure for the second time, since in the midst of your discussion you consider yourself entitled to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure. No, you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. (President: Please read the Rules of Procedure and know that the Rules of Procedure apply to all of us and bring your discussion to you within the time available. You don't have to doubt at all, no MP has been reduced for a second of his time, but I have to do my duty and take care of the order, rudeness and violation of the Rules of Procedure are not allowed. Go on. I don't have any words. When we talked about the laws, which we are discussing today, at the National Assembly on 5 November 2008, they entered the procedure of an emergency procedure. In the light of the laws, the government then wrote that it is demanding an emergency procedure because otherwise harmful consequences could arise for the work of judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. What consequences have occurred in the past two years, since these laws apply. We do not have a permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, an incomplete composition of the State Council of Prosecutors, an insufficient number of judges, hundreds of appeal proceedings before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the unselected presidents of Serbia's courts, humiliated and disgraced people. The question arises – when adverse consequences have arisen, are the people responsible for this, visionaries, fire guards, non-immature of the legal system in this country, or are they pests? I think it's something else. Then you brought Serbia down from 140 courts to only 40, while parties in the process, citizens, prosecutors, judges, turned lawyers into a traveling circus. You've changed the names of the courts, you've changed their seats and judges and you've created a bunch of problems that you obviously don't know about, and you can't get out in a legally valid way. These aren't reforms, they are, Madam Minister, obviously changes up. You have more than 800 complaints from unselected judges before the Constitutional Court and the proceedings will continue sometime by 2012, in the term of some other government will end the last proceedings, but the problem is that the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which respected yesterday a complaint from a non-chosen judge, is unable to bring judges back to work, but should do so by the High Council of Justice. In an extraordinary legal argument, Mr Aligrudić, and Mrs Radovic, and Mr Palalic and counterpart Martinovic explained this to you. Mrs. Malovic, you and this government have returned communism to Serbia and this best shows the government's conclusion that judges who have not been elected pay their profits even though they do not work until 2012. So people sit at home and get paid for it. I don't mind that because you obviously realize that you've made a huge mistake. But it costs Serbian citizens, and judicial reform, among other things, was implemented to save some money. We have a brilliant solution, I guess you don't believe that. The tax on kiwi, mango and papaya cannot be increased to 10% and paid by judges in Serbia, but we will discuss it tomorrow with the finance minister. You're here telling us about the Venice Commission. Mrs. Malovic, you don't live in Venice, you live in Belgrade. This is where you work. You didn't come to the assembly with gondola, you came to the audience. Why don't you mention the European Commission's grudges? Here's a copy of the European Commission's report that I will be happy to read to you in the discussion in particular, and now I don't have time to read it to you. You didn't refer to that in any particular word to list what they had in mind for you. In light of the laws you have proposed here, the European Commission's 2010 report on Serbia's 2010 progress in the judicial system, it noted that some aspects of recently implemented reforms are causing serious concerns. More or less like an explanation for all the bill's proposals. What does the European Commission require of you? A serious review of the entire reform of the judiciary and the whole re-election and they will monitor it. Why? Because since 2009, the VSS and the state's major prosecutors have been producing lawlessness in this country. I am truly proud, at the proposal for a Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, I have not submitted any amendments, because after two years all my amendments, which I submitted on 11 November 2008, were accepted from word to word, in the same text. Then you didn't understand, you thought you were geniuses, that you could predict all future situations that way, obviously you weren't right then either. But it only needs to show your incompetence and intricacies and that you were not well-intentioned to accept the right solutions and proposals and should therefore be branded by the professional public, but also by the citizens of Serbia. This is the VSS decision of 16.12.2009, where all the judges in Serbia were elected. Come on, let's see in 2012, how many people on this list selected that date will not be found there, or how many changes will be made after the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Just to remind you, you were in this assembly a few days ago, more precisely on 7 December 2010, on my particular question, since the deadlines for the election of the President of the Courts expired in March and July, when the Presidents of the Courts will be elected, you say – at the beginning of the answer I must tell you that we are not being relaxed, the time is not for relaxation, we believe that we are at the door of the EU. Of course it's not time to relax. The situation in the judiciary is as tense as the manager's factory. You're not aware of that. You're talking here about business courts, the results of the High Court in Belgrade. I have received a reply from a certain person who is the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, in the Commission for the conduct of a judicial examination, in the secret committee of the Witness Protection Government, who says - since the legal deadline for the President of the Court was three months, which means that it falls within the jurisdiction of the first VSS call and in two weeks I assume that you will have in the Assembly a proposal for a candidate for the Presidents of the Court. That was December 7th. Two weeks are up. It's easy to calculate how many days it's been. Furthermore, I assess and assess the full responsibility that it is not good to wait next year with the acting president of the courts, and Serbia cannot be in VD condition. Are we waiting for the Chinese New Year in February, when the year of the tiger, next year you'll be entering the rabbit year. Imagine when from a tiger to a rabbit, what will only then look like a judiciary in Serbia. On one show, I sealed the name and last name of the candidate to be elected president of the court. Let's ask that television if they lost that envelope, so we can finally move on to the judge's election and prove that there were no political pressures in the choice of courts. And finally, Mrs. Malovic, I may understand that you are the second most powerful woman in Serbia, as some daily newspapers in Serbia have published, but I really cannot understand Mr. Tadic, who said last night that the selector is changing the team. How he didn't put you as the first point of resolution and shift in the future reconstruction of the government. After these results in the judiciary, I ask you to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49157	Seven minutes and 40 seconds of MP time have been used, and another minute is available. People's MPs, none more than me likes the lively atmosphere in the National Assembly, but when we don't know the limits ourselves, then unfortunately I have to do the unpleasant parts of establishing order during the National Assembly session. The word has a folk MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, and after that, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49158	Dear citizens, I would like the time spent in the Assembly to be spent in congregation debates, the time meant for discussing the law and its enforcement to be really used more effectively, without any personal stamps that do not contribute to anyone. Unfortunately, the way this session is scheduled, the way that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, brings me into one dilemma, how some of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure can be legal and mandatory for respect, and some others are slightly less legal and mandatory for respect. For example, the provision of Article 172, where the budget should be obtained at least 15 days before the examination, is not respected, for which no one is responsible. The provision by which it is possible to deliver in the late hours of the five laws that define the judiciary and justice in this country are brought together in a debate with one law that, to interest clarity, can best be called the brunt of this ministry, the bruce, the unrecorded, these governments, and trying to, in addition to these five laws, according to which the chorus, rightly, all speak, disguises the surface and ignorance of the government in a limited state administration. If someone doesn't think I'm using too many harsh words, not to get an accidental warning, I'll tell you that we have a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code for the Crimes of Organized Crime, and we have a false name of the law, i.e. Incorrect. This is not the law on amendments to the law on the execution of prison sentences. The problem you made with the surface and ignorance must, I'm glad that the Minister has returned, be resolved by the correction of the law. Maybe the citizens don't know, to meet them, and unfortunately for you, this and this mistake and the surface didn't go undetected. Let me repeat, because of Madam Minister, it's about correcting the obvious mistake. In your explanation, you completely unfoundedly wrote that it was about harmonising the name of the administration with the name of a certain law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. However, it is not a alignment. Has anyone forgotten that the law on the execution of criminal sanctions was passed in 2005, and the law we are now considering here was passed in 2009. A law that changes in 2009 contained an obvious error in the name, because harmonizing with previously passed laws simply cannot be. Unfortunately, this is not the only mistake in this law and shows really one impertinence with which you go before the MPs and the public, believing that the vote at the end of the debate can cover everything up, everything to cover up, anyone to justify. Today, as we discuss one of the laws that contains in itself unconstitutional provisions, as you collect data from those who need to work in these institutions, you have two more laws on the agenda in front of the Constitutional Court, and that is the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Why don't you give the Constitutional Court of Serbia to breathe, but by bringing these and these in a hurry, with so many mistakes, with this kind of appointment, we're just creating a job to the Constitutional Court that can't deal with its basic activity, but by correcting the mistakes of those who no longer hold to justice, to justice, to justice, to the law. You mention the European Commission's remarks. Why don't you mention that one of the serious objections of the European Commission and the law-making process is exactly the urgency with which you go to the MPs in one race with time, where we don't have time to read human law, let alone submit amendments to them. When we correct that remark and how we will correct that urgency of the law, if in this assembly the most important things start with the budget and the following tax laws, also by the urgent procedure, by limiting the right to debate in terms of time, and because of the collapse of seven and eight points in one law, you are literally going towards a goal called a complete abolition of the debate. That's no doubt. The proof that you're going towards a complete end to the debate is a way of making an emergency appointment and an explanation that you're giving us. I repeat, this mistake that you had obvious in the name of the administration, you could correct by publishing a correction or not going out with this in front of the public at all, indulging in front of all of us, but by pulling the ear of the one who was yours, as someone who was the best student and who shouldn't allow himself to have such failures in public, for whom you are objectively guilty, perhaps not directly, and to punish someone who brought you into this situation. However, not only do false representation of the name of the law and solves by correcting what could have been corrected, you still go in those illegalities. You're treating, allegedly, the law of sending officers, directed by the director, at the Office for the Consensus of Offices, on a proposal from the Head of the Office, in which there is a special department, with its consent, means, persons referred to, in time of six months. You haven't heard one of the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court, which takes care of the uniqueness of the legal system, and you don't know that this part, the posting of officials to a job outside, is resolved by another law completely comprehensively. I really don't think you had to solve this here at all, apparently, because it's all arranged by the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, which solves the method of reference. I really don't understand why you tried this on Article 6, by erasing it, to solve it in a way that is even insufficiently defined in relation to those solutions you have already mentioned in the law. Unfortunately, the explanation of these changes is completely contradictory. I don't know if you've had a chance to read it. It is stated that in this way the conditions are ensured that the tasks in the special department are carried out by the most responsible, most professional and most skilled employees. However, the reasons and the provisions of the first plan point out, in fact, the temporary deployment without the consent of the employee, not whether he is quality, professional, most responsible and capable, which is certainly not the right way to declare as the goal you are talking about in the explanation. This time, as well as the reasons set out in Article 1, the problem arises, I really do not have a softer term than an unprofessional law, where 250 MPs should now waste time, to discuss all this, and only because someone has not taken it seriously and wrote the law that we are talking about here. Was it important last year to quickly adopt hundreds of laws in order to spend the entire year correcting the mistakes of such a quick, quick, and quick - minded adoption of the law? You're not specific about this. Here, we're going to have another debate on the Budgetary System Act, which we talked about in October, and we brought it in July 2009. For example, provisions on fiscal responsibility, which we brought in October, has not yet been applied, and we are going to change them. I really don't understand whether there's a need to create an illusion here that someone's doing a lot of work, that they're making laws that contain mistakes, surfaces or inaccuracies, and then they're making laws that make it right. What's particularly interesting is a member of the 12th of this law that you define the recording of data on persons who will deal with these affairs and talk about how you obtain information about them and how you ensure that they do not come into conflict of interest. So you're sorting out a way to record and track the property of employees working in this special department. For the sake of the public, I have to read only part of your solution where you say that the security checks of persons referred to in Article 10(1) are those which are referred to these institutions, the Ministry of Interior, BIA, and the security checks and checks on the property of that person can be carried out without the knowledge of those persons, before the entry into service, or before the start of office, during the work, or during the period of office and one year after the work has ceased, or ceases. Do you have one copy of the Constitution and is the way in which this data is obtained in accordance with the regulations governing the personal data, the protection of that information and the secrecy of that information? How is it possible for this law to bear the title "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes", if there are few in prisons that you could prove organized crime, and those who are actually involved in organised crime, which is, above all, the privatisation of public procurement, after the recognition of all independent, professional and international bodies, according to the knowledge of all those who live and work in this country, these and those in these institutions are not available? I do ask if these laws serve the story of justice and justice and the legality of institutions, or whether they serve that the institutions in this country are really dealing with breakers of the law that need to be punished? Those who need to manage and work in such institutions will be checked in such a way that is simply not in accordance with the Constitution, nor in accordance with international conventions, as I said, nor in accordance with the regulations governing the protection of personal data. What's interesting? Your solutions contained in the law are such that you have prescribed the verification of that person and the widest circle of his relatives, that you have fully devised the verification of the property he has, which he will acquire or acquire. As you prescribed, this number of faces may include, for example, dozens of individuals among whom can find aunts, aunts, uncles, brothers from uncles, aunts, uncles, with whom employees may not have direct contact, may not have any contact, may have no information about him, or may be obliged to provide you with such information. By prescribing such security checks and verifying assets that can be carried out without the knowledge of the person and leaving it to the government to edit some special act, is that in accordance with the Constitution? Or, if you adopt him like this, here we have a little more work to do for the Constitutional Court. Either you act as you did before the proceedings for the unselected judges, where you didn't even send your representative, or we've had a chance to hear here after this speaker that the Constitutional Court is dealing with something that isn't his job, or we're going to get provisions, like we got in these night laws that need to talk about today, that you decide what, and later on, it's going to be the Constitutional Court's business, which the Constitutional Court won't discuss. Regardless of what we are talking about, the abolished death penalty, the need for humane treatment in war and in peace, humane treatment and prisons, you, I do not understand for what reasons, to save in the state, not on those who have been fired, not on those ministers who have violated the law in the audit, etc., in Article 30 of the basic law, have provided for the erasure of the provisions where it is said – a specialist medical examination, approved exclusively at the request of the convicted, shall be carried out at its expense. The very state will make the most important savings, and on the burden of humanity, by not allowing convicts to carry out a medical examination as appropriate to the civilized world. I do have a general remark that the government that is full of the mouth of democracy, that the Ministry of Justice, which in its name, must create its own associates, not only the conversators in us, in this home, but also the associates to apply the law and to pass fair law, logical laws, bear the banner of those who come out here with unconstitutional laws, stubbornly rejecting the mistakes that are evident and that we are correcting today. As an economist, I am most amazed by the provision that, not even by a regulation, but by the conclusion of a government that we have only been able to find on the site of one of the judicial authorities, you have decided to continue to pay your income to those whose families have to eat, who have to explain why they have not been chosen and who have expired within six months of receiving the fee. Such an illegal payment to the government's conclusion is likely to have found a place in some other provision and we cannot easily find it through an appraisal that speaks of the means for you. Dear Serbian citizens, this government is asking to receive, on behalf of the flexibility of the budget, the right that 5% of the total budget can be rerouted from the purposes that we approved and voted as MPs and as the National Assembly and directed them where the finance minister, at local level or in the Republic, assesses them. Who has the right to ask for something that's separated, for example? for social benefits or for student and student standards and credits, does it shift into someone's work contracts, receipts for writing bad laws, or does it have the right to direct someone's travel expenses? That's what we saw in the audit. So 5% of what's called a billion spent in the budget is someone asking us to legalize as a civil robbery. But rather than robbing citizens, if it is spent unauthorized, then you come out in November with a rebalancing to cover it, and this isn't even that, past the budget reserve that you can spend whatever you want, you ministers, get the right to decide, you as the minister of justice for part of the job, Minister for Kosovo and Minister for Education together for something directed at Kosovo, past the finance minister, but all of you would have the right to spend 5% differently, in addition to the budget law and ask you to get the legal right to do so. None of you remembers to cancel 5% of the privatisation benefits, which is official by law, not by law, but by a rule that, in cutting regulations that you so bomb and boast as success, so that's one signature, in about ten minutes, someone's going to hit the rules and get in the government's next agenda and cut that commission from 5% to 1%. How much is the fee reduced to some of the other privatisation consultants you're announcing? Your intentions are seen through every law and budget. Your ability, your personality, I'm sure it's bigger than what you see in this law. It's my biggest fear -- why some people who know, know, don't have the strength to fight to bring something that's in the interest of everyone and don't give weapons to the opposition to tell you what organized crime you're fighting, if there's only talk about organised crime on TV and it's written only in the yellow press, but there's so few words or judgments where they belong. Much smarter said, "If the punishment is not certain, everyone will dare to break it, because the thief is not the one who steals but the one who gets caught," and you, by stimulating greed, shortcuts and the greatest organised crime in what is called state institutions, through unclear laws and uncertain penalties, have allowed us today to really talk about skin-raining poor people to fill their budgets. Because with the budget, we have a package of tax laws that abolishes the tax on computers, on southern fruits, where tax exemptions are lifted for a third-party member, for an apartment that was eventually obtained by turning tenant rights into property, so that someone could have 24 ministries, countless agencies, hundreds of assistants, state secretaries, etc. Without any awareness that we are in a crisis, that we are in a situation where a leper is beyond what we need to cover financially much shorter than the wishes of ministers who come out here with such a law. I really thought it would never happen again that we were considering the budget with some law. This set of judicial laws, thus introduced into the assembly procedure, says that we are only one step away from the violence called the abolition of parliament and parliamentary debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49159	21 minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to commit that the legitimacy of this Parliament has been compromised as soon as certain mandates have been stolen and it has nothing to do with the rules of procedure that were later adopted. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, first of all, I have a few procedural remarks and it is good that Mrs Comic is holding the presidency, because I hope now that we will get the answer for which we have remained a little short-lived while Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic chaired, which is – how is it that Mrs Gordana Comic received these six draft laws significantly before all the other MPs in the Assembly or at least MPs and MP groups of SRS, because, in short, these laws arrived in the assembly procedure and were handed over at 13.00 hours? Ms. Comic apparently received them after 10-15 minutes because she had arrived to read them and to submit her proposal at 13:45 p.m., and all the other MPs, I say, at least the SRS parliamentary group, received these laws only after 9:00 p.m. That brings you, I'd say, into two problems. The first is that MPs must receive a particular document at least 24 hours before the debate begins. The Rules of Procedure say they must be handed over in the procedure at least 24 hours earlier, but when it is said to be handed over in the procedure, it means being available to MPs. We do not have any of them to be handed over 15 days earlier officially in the procedure, unless they have been handed over to parliamentary groups and if MPs are unable to read them, to possibly make their comments, amendments and to prepare themselves adequately for discussion. The second procedural remark I want to make immediately is Article 167. A Rules of Procedure, which says the law can be passed by emergency procedure. You asked for these laws to be passed by emergency procedure. Here's what the explanation sounds like. You say, "It is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure, as its prerogative by emergency procedure could result in adverse consequences for the work of the VSS and courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in order to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process." There are several conditions in our rules of procedure, but the first condition must be met in order for some law to be handed over and released in an emergency procedure, says Article 167 paragraph 2: "By an emergency procedure a law can be passed that regulates issues and relations arises under circumstances that could not be predicted". That's the basic condition. Then there are several alternative conditions, additionally, when this first one is met, then ''if the impunity by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety, the work of organs and organisations, as well as for meeting international obligations'. At the very least, I have no reason to even claim that this has not been brought in because you want to meet the obligations you have or you think you have towards the EU, but you lack this first condition or at least tell us what it is. They repeat: "A law can be passed that regulates issues and relations arises due to circumstances that could not be predicted." What are these circumstances, and what are these questions that you couldn't foresee, if this is who knows which time to discuss these laws, if it's being conducted in the National Assembly itself, who knows which way of discussing and changing the same laws and in the extreme, if there's been a live debate about this in public for a long time? Agonia, I have to say agony, with the judges you've practically resolved, you say you haven't re-elected them, but the fact is that they were judges, and today they're no longer, which represents an effect of resolution, has been going on for more than a year. So, what was it that you couldn't predict? You will later have the opportunity to hear from my colleagues of party and correspondence that you have conducted with EU representatives and this correspondence takes months. There is no urgency, there are no questions and circumstances that you could not have predicted, and even in the end you ask and say that there are particularly justified reasons why you are asking that the law enter into force, instead of eight days from publication, the next day from the day of publication. It's really something that no one can justify, and I'm sure neither can you. It is indicative that some here are giving lectures to you, so they say – they can't decide on judges who haven't reached any verdict, I agree, but they can't decide on judges who haven't been able to finish law school in 30 years, and in this House they sit just because they stole their resignations and other MPs' resignations, so they come and tell what they have and they run away, and they can't be found anywhere with the representatives of a real opposition on a television duel, that these questions or objections they have resolved. I have to say, it's indicative that some in this room are most interested and most debated about the state of the courts. I guess they know who they are and what they are, and they're sure that if they work out this Serbian judiciary, they'll end up in those institutions, too, so they're fighting to make the conditions they're ruling as much as possible. If you don't know who you are, it's those who talk about privatising robbery, but who can't mention Miskovic or Beka or Peconia or many other tycoons, because these tycoons, Nicovic and others, are funding their political party. They are those who talk about social justice, and they buy apartments of half a million euros, although their wives are housewives, so the domestic women are funded by political parties, and they are those who talk about patriotism, and on the other hand want to deliver to The Hague tribunal Ratko Mladic, so when we have heard that announcement about some rally in Belgrade, there is Mr. Delic, so that we can hear whether he will be at that rally, whether he is invited or not, whether he respects the position of his president who says he will unconditionally deliver Ratko Mladic to The Hague tribunal, because he is proud to comply with the laws, which is the legal obligation of the Republic of Serbia. Let's hear the answers to these questions, so let's see who's going to represent Vozdovac, who's going to represent Arangelovac, to hear who's going to represent many other committees and quasi-partys funded by tycoons, in which there's complete chaos. As far as this law is concerned, I have to ask Mrs. Malovic one thing - you're talking about some kind of judicial reform here, you swear this wasn't a lustration. But with the Secretary of State of Justice, Mr. Homen, I've been on a show, and I have a television video, and I can hand it to you. It's a TV show called "Signali," where Mr. Homen openly said that what you couldn't do in public, that you did in secret and that in this way you've done in a cool way the lustration. Can the State Secretary of Justice publicly declare such things and claim such things and continue to be the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice? Let's see who was telling the truth, and who was misleading the public, is that you or is that Mr. Homen? Another thing that interests me – how many judges were resolved during 2009 and 2010, but using that regular procedure, which is prescribed by law? Now you're saying that you're going to determine whether there are reasons to suspect that a judge who's been resolved is unprofessional, incompetent, corrupt or not, and I'm asking you, are you, in how many cases, and if you haven't, why haven't you used a regular procedure to resolve the judges that the law prescribes? You say - this judge is corrupt, this unprofessional, this one, this one, you run the procedure and you solve it. As far as this law is concerned, and we have a lot of objections here, and you, first of all, don't think you've come up with this law well enough. There are a lot of expressions and a lot of members who are totally obnoxious, and you know that the purpose of anyone who writes laws is to make these expressions that are used and sentences understood to everyone, including ordinary people, and uneducated and educated, and this way that you write or copy these texts leads to them being so raving that often even lawyers can't understand them and that this later leads to different interpretations. Here's a suggestion. There are several such laws. In particular, I hold in my hand the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, Amendments and Supplements. The first four members are changed, but I'm asking you, what are Articles 5, 6 and 7? These are additions, but what will the consolidated text of the judge's law look like? In the first article, you say, in the member of that and that changes, and it's similar in 2, 3 and 4, but in 5, 6 and 7, you're just prescribing a new provision, you don't say where it's going to stand, and it has to stand somewhere. You either had to give a new member, so say - after Article 24, a new member of 24a goes, b or c, or I don't know what. You're just prescribing certain norms, but what will the consolidated text look like to you? Then you'll have one member of the 5th of the day, the 6th member of the earlier, the 7th member of the earlier, and now even after these changes and additions, this by its nature and concept are complementary, but we would have to get a certain numerical term to say so. Next, you say – the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decision of the first composition of the High Council. The first composition is not a legal term. What does the first line mean? Will you talk about the second band tomorrow, the third band? You had to give some sort of a timeline, and say, so far decisions, decisions, decisions from that date to that date and so forth. Then, he says, the proceedings under appeal, i.e. by constitutional appeals, which the judges of Article 1 have brought to the Constitutional Court are terminated by the law and the cases are subject to the High Council of the Judiciary. It's right that some kind of procedure ends with a decision. These procedures don't end. In fact, you transfer jurisdiction and trample the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gave the judges, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the right to file a constitutional appeal. This procedure doesn't end. This procedure ends only before the Constitutional Court, but the procedure will continue to run before other authorities. There are no words about ending, nor can there be any words about ending the procedure, if you continue to continue and prescribe how the procedure will continue, so you will make a decision, so you will make criteria etc. The following thing, you say, is Article 5(4) – Judges from Article 1 who have not filed a complaint, i.e. a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court may object to the decision referred to in Article 1 within 30 days of the date of entry into force. What do you guys practically want me to try a little résumé to do, in the middle of my exposure, what are you practically doing with this law? These laws are according to their nature lex specialis, which you practically step on and give up everything you've done so far. The procedure you've conducted so far, so you've cleared certain judges, now you're telling this law nothing that hasn't been done doesn't apply. You've got judges who have been cleared, who are getting paid, and now you're saying that even those who haven't filed a complaint and who haven't received a salary have the opportunity to object that tomorrow is decided that their resolution was unfounded, that they become judges again practically, and that they too have the right to an adequate remuneration for the complete period that has passed. You're saying no additional financial resources are needed to implement this law. How could they not? Additional work will be needed, above all, for the High Council of the Judiciary, for the State's Major Prosecutor's Office, etc. So we're gonna need extra funds. Do you prejudge that none of these judges will be returned to judicial duty? Of course they will, but it still means adequate material compensation for this period when they were not judges or were judges, but they certainly did not receive that particular compensation. You don't even know how long further proceedings will take in the future, but I'd ask you to tell us now -- here's my estimate of three months, six months, it'll be over in a year, five, whatever, maybe 30 days, so the next time you come, we can ask you why you cheated on us. Of course we don't know how long it'll take. We've warned you for the first time, that it's not enough five minutes per judge to decide whether someone is worthy and professional to be a judge or not. Now will the actions be, to say the right one, will it go the right way now? This involves serious work and a large number of working days, perhaps one or a few days for each judge. This will then last for not months but years again, for the Supreme Council of the judiciary cannot deal with it alone. So, this is a whole series of issues that have not been resolved further, you say -- the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary will review the decision of the first Chamber High Council on the choice of permanent judicial office, i.e. the decision to elect judges who are first elected. What happens if these judges who were elected for the first time, if they are no longer judges, if they are found now that they, according to your criteria that you are about to bring, were not worthy, were not professional enough to be judges? What will happen to their judgments? Mrs. Malovic, you didn't work in court, I did, and I know what these laws produce. They produce that half the judges in Serbia will have a problem tomorrow, because whoever doesn't like the decision will slam the door and say, "You'll see, I'll write now, you'll be resolved, you won't be a judge anymore," etc. So if we ignore these praises of yours that we keep listening to, how is it judicial reform who knows how much in a row, how will there be justice in which people will believe, so tell us, is this the justice system that the people believe in? You promised efficiency who knew how many times, reduced judges, increased, let me say, the distance between where they live and where they will work and the same number of cases you promise efficiency. Come on, please, specific data on efficiency and the periods on which the hearings are scheduled. I'll be brief and I'll ask you one more time. The SRS has filed criminal charges against Branislav Prostrana, the president of Zemun municipality and Steve Zivanovic, former SRS boardman. I have already asked a parliamentary question on the subject because they tried to buy a councilman in the municipality of Zemun, Mr. Sasa Subotic, and we have submitted a stenogram of talks, where Stevan Zivanovic offers 100,000 euros in total through posters, through projects, through the directorial posts of Sasa Subotic to support SNS authorities in the municipality of Zemun. We filed a criminal report on October 7th. In the meantime, we have received a response from the First Basic Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, where they say - I would like to inform you that, according to your criminal report against Steve Zivanovic of Zemun and Branislav Prostran, President SO Zemun, we have found no legal basis for the launch of a criminal case against any person, nor any criminal act for which prosecution is committed under official duty. Please tell me if the committees and deputies of cattle that can be bought as in the cattle market, is it open the season of shopping and trade because this is not about suspicions, it is about the case where the conversation is recorded and there is evidence of what is being offered today in Belgrade and Serbia for parliamentary mandates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49161	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic wants a word. Can you tell on what basis you're answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49162	I'm reporting from Article 104 right to replication. Would you allow me?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49163	To be honest, the vice president told me that there was no basis for what she was chairing. Ever since I got in, there's really no basis for replication, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49164	I won't take up much of your time and I'll never get back to you because in my life I'm choosing the battles I'm going to take part in and I'm going to be in. It is the right for each of us to choose whether to fight for the citizens, against the authorities or to be with the authorities, and we choose that depending on what quality, knowledge we have and what goals we have. For example, I don't mind that the gentleman who just spoke decided to enter the 31st Management and Supervisory Committee in the city of Belgrade, he is experiencing it by his opposition. It's his right. Let them release all my colleagues, I will do the same, so that citizens can assess how much each of our actions, discussions and performances are directed to the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of a third. I will no longer answer because I understand my parliamentary duty by speaking here about the laws, but sometimes silence experiences weakness, so I would ask those who come forward to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49165	Nenja Sarovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49166	Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic and the person representing himself as an MP, I must tell you this, the SRS has entered the 31st board of directors, but the boards, Mrs. Tabakovic, are not the authorities. I don't know if you graduated from the same law school and passed political theory exams at the same university that ended in Tomislav Nikolic recently, but it's obvious that not many of those interrogators questioned you. You need to know one thing. The only way to control the work of city authorities and public enterprises is to be present and one of the traditions that the SRS is proud of is that, for example, in the municipality of Zemun, we have given an adequate number, i.e. a proportional number in the boards as many as there are, but you, Mrs Tabaković, forgot it, as you forgot those vows to Vojislav Seselj, as we have forgotten the ideology of the great Serbia and everything else, and you have done this for the material benefit of your leader today in real estates worth about, as far as I know, his family has been in the last eight years since Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, entered the properties worth about one million euros. I'm not saying this the first time. I can't wait for Tomislav Nikolic to come out and say it's not true, so I'll prove it. And how to measure whether you're a government or an opposition, I can explain that to you. It is measured by the fact that the representatives of the authorities do not allow you to be stripped of your mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution, as Dragan Gilas and the city of Belgrade have been financed by your party's "Justice" list for tens of millions of dinars. In all that time, the SRS didn't get anything. Please explain how you as an opposition party get tens of millions of dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49167	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49168	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to speak to Madam Minister, I assume he'll be back soon, judicial reform for the SRS is always an ongoing topic. If nothing else, then because of Article 3. The RS constitution that says the government is the real fundamental assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. The strongest rule of law, in addition to the division of power, in addition to direct free elections, is provided by the judicial authorities, i.e. the judicial authority as an entirely independent branch of government. In order for it to be so necessary, we need to have an independent judiciary. Do we have it? Of course we don't have an independent judiciary. Did we have good potential and capacity in Serbia to secure an independent judiciary and implement judicial reform until the end? Personally in the SRS, we think we are, but it took a lot of good faith. I don't think we missed the expert personnel. We have great professors at law school. We have young and professional personnel. I think that one of them and the minister of justice is present, but she decided instead of building a professional career to enter a political, completely uncertain, very difficult, and I don't think that judicial reform can only be carried out by someone who is a minister of justice, neither can anyone who is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and, by the way, the President of the VSS, but must participate in all political parties, which the SRS does at any time. Mrs. Minister had one fake performance by the DS, whose proposal, although showing members of the DS is not a member of the party, is falsely hoping that this is all good and fine. It is not good and it is wrong, and today we have only had the opportunity of one DS MP per Rules of Procedure or in some other way that the Rules of Procedure allow us to hear, speak two sentences concerning the system of justice, that is, judicial reform. Where is Serbia's judicial reform today? Not that it's in a tunnel with no lights, but in a tunnel without a way out. Today it's one of Gordi's knots that few can solve and in an attempt to solve it you're actually getting more involved in that problem. Today will be easy for me, when I've defined how I'm going to talk about this item on the agenda, I've decided to quote two to three provisions of these six laws that are on the agenda and the reasoning of a law. I think that in this way to the professional public in Serbia, elected and unselected judges and all others whose subject is quite close or they want something about it to hear in the best way what you yourself have written, in what situation today is judicial reform, there is no better way than an explanation to explain. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes, on the basis of one provision only, on the basis of Article 2, I will show that you will again and very quickly have similar problems that you have with judicial reform. What's this about? The staff referred to in Articles 3 and 4 of paragraph 1 of this Act shall, with their consent or because of the need for a service without their consent to work in a special department, be referred to by the Director of the Criminal Sanctions Administration. With their consent or without their consent, and in accordance with the needs of the administration. There's always the needs of management. That's why they're going there. So when we open up some competitions or ads or when we do a full-time job, we do it for a reason that there's a need for it, and if someone won't accept it voluntarily, then without his consent, he'll be assigned to these jobs and in time of six months. In your explanation, you said that the best, most professional and consistent should be in special institutions to handle criminal sanctions, and all of a sudden you only solve it for six months. What after six months? Can several more times six months on the proposal of the director of such an institution be re-disposed or not? Against the solution, it just says that you do not have a serious approach to this problem either, that reference to work in a special department may be made to the Minister responsible for the judiciary within eight days of the date of receipt of the solution. The appeal does not delay the execution of the solution. Is there a right to a constitutional appeal to one who is not satisfied with the schedule in that institution for the execution of criminal sanctions? Are we going to have the same problem with such faces and the same problems we have with unselected judges? Yeah, I guess so. Will we then have the need to pass some laws that will specifically address the status of individuals who may not have their own fault have found themselves in that place? Article 5 The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges has been formulated as follows – the permanent composition of the VSS will review the decisions of the first composition of the VSS on the termination of the judicial duty and of the judges referred to in Article 101, in accordance with the criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity, which will be brought by the permanent composition of the VSS. Do we have those criteria now? Did we have these criteria when we chose, that is, when you chose, when the VSS chose nearly 2,000 holders of judicial functions? Reading or in any way interpreting this norm to conclude that there was nothing like it. If he is, why doesn't he keep working on such rules as that VSS in constant composition? The proceedings under appeal, i.e. the constitutional appeals brought by the judges referred to in Article 1 of the Constitutional Court, shall end with the effect of this law and cases shall be subject to VSS. It is not possible to end one object in such a way. Mr. Cosic, do you agree that it is not possible to end if it is metricated or otherwise solved, or if it was untimely and then otherwise the fate of this case is resolved? Appeals, i.e. constitutional complaints referred to in Article 2(2), will be seen as objections to the decision of the VSS. Suddenly, a renaming in the course of a submission or a requirement based on the Constitution for the protection of its rights gets another form, gets other power and other meanings. Judges referred to in Article 1 who have not lodged an appeal, or a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court, may object to the decision referred to in Article 1(1). Does this mean that the former President of the Court of Justice in Arangelovac, who, meanwhile, became a councilman of a political party, left the political party in the hope that he might be elected mayor or president of Arangelovac, would have the right, since so far he has not done so to object to VSS in order to protect his rights? Will all the lawyers or all the other faces have it? Is that going to have a judge who wasn't elected to the judge, and yesterday or these days she became an assistant minister of justice? It can't be done like that. Constitutional law lawyers already have problems with how to write certain laws and proposals, and when seminars and consultations are held, the basic problem is that many of the laws adopted, but they go through one, when it comes to positions and those who support the government, are a non-critical approach to these laws, which cannot be applied in practice, and here the Constitution has been fully accurate. What did he say about the Constitutional Court? He listed in Article 167 what the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and at the end of the article said – The Constitutional Court also carries out other tasks provided for in the Constitution. There is no possibility of another law, although we added a number of jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Court Act. But an even greater disaster and an even greater humiliation is what is in the light of this law, means the Law on the Election of Judges and the European Commission's 2010 progress report on Serbia, in the judicial system, noted that some aspects of recently implemented reforms are causing serious concerns. This legislator, the government and the Ministry of Justice, representing the law on behalf of the government, says – the election procedure of judges was carried out in a non-transparent manner, which puts the principle of independence of judges at risk. We were just in December last year pointing to that. All the facts and all the knowledge that we knew and had from practice, we pointed to that. At the time, you claimed, Madam Minister, and the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, that there were no problems, that the appointment or election of judges was not removed from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and transferred to the central political parties. Here, now you're saying it is and there's no better argument and there's no better evidence of the incompetence of this regime than what you wrote in the light of this law. The high council of the judiciary that conducted this procedure worked in the temporary composition. Now that you've claimed everything's okay, how come? The judges were not given an opportunity to be heard during the proceedings, and they were not given adequate reasons for the decision to terminate their duties. You only shared a circulatory letter with those who were not chosen without any explanation. Now you're saying they're not given an explanation and that's why you're allegedly trying to solve these problems again. It's not possible anymore. Judges who were not re-elected could only appeal to the Constitutional Court, and this court does not have the capacity to fully consider these complaints. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia said exactly that Serbia's Constitutional Court has 15 judges. For a long time there was no Constitutional Court of Serbia, so he worked in the back of the system, worked at 10 instead of 15. We now have 15 elected judges. Not to mention how they came about in the way that the Constitution predicted, and I can't say that if I wanted to make any serious remarks. We know who were proposed to us for the Constitutional Court judges, which does not mean that there are no extremely high-quality judges there, but there is no capacity to resolve these complaints. What does that mean? There's not enough number, and you can see that we have exactly 15 judges as much as our constitution predicted. Does anyone doubt the expertise of the Constitutional Court judges? Don't they want to solve this problem? Would you solve it differently than what he's going to do now, the new permanent High Council of the Judiciary, or is it something else? Indeed, whatever it is, it must not be treated this way to a branch of government that needs to ensure the rule of law. And rule of law is the foundation of respect for the Constitution and the foundation for which we all stand here. In view of the remarks, further arguments are being made – in that report, it is one of the conditions of the further progress of the Republic of Serbia in the European integration process, it is necessary to carry out a review of decisions taken by the first advice of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the process of the general election of judges. Will one day, for all the failures made during this reform and in the election of judicial officials be responsible for this High Council of the judiciary that had a temporary mission? Don't forget, Madam Minister, that you are a member and that you will now be a member of the new High Council of the Judiciary. In order to create legal opportunities for such a review, it is necessary to amend and supplement the Law on Judges which would give authority to the permanent composition of the High Council of the judiciary to review the decisions of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and establish the procedure for review. You also claimed in a special session that was organized here, that everything was done in accordance with the law and that there were no failures. How come all of a sudden in just a few days it's not like that anymore? Also, the cases of the Constitutional Court of Appeals, i.e. constitutional appeals, are terminated and subject to the High Council of the Court of Justice's re-determination, which exceeds the observations given in the report, with regard to the capacity of the Constitutional Court for resolution in those cases. The law was fully done in co-operation with representatives of the European Commission and the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, who gave a positive opinion on it. What the Council of Europe gave you, given to you by the Venice Commission, that's what the MPs of the SRS told you in 2008 when these legal proposals were on the agenda, as we said last year in December, when it was the choice of holders of judicial functions. That didn't matter to you at the time. It didn't matter to you and it seemed to you, Madam Minister, that the false support you have in the DS could lead to quality and successful judicial reform. You know it's not. Where are they today and why don't they admit to you today those mistakes and the responsibility that the DS personally needs to bear and, objectively, you as justice minister? It's your choice and you've defined yourself for it. Perhaps you should have stayed more professional and less in politics. The right to a fair trial cannot secure this court. Based on such a reform of the judiciary, we will have an increasing number of demands from citizens of the Serbian state to address the International Court. Will once, at last, the wrong judgments be made by those who have made such decisions, or by those judges who have made such decisions? As long as that principle doesn't live, we'll have an irresponsible relationship. I also claim that we had the opportunity to choose the best and the best judges, but it seems someone wasn't the target. How come now, every day, and especially these past seven days, that many of those judges who haven't been elected, and then someone persistently claimed they weren't worthy and were not professional, or some other reason, suddenly became the best and could perform some other functions? In addition to the right to a fair trial, did the European Commission or the Venice Commission say anything about the mandates of the SRS that someone stole from them? It is obvious that this parliamentary group is not only taking mandates from the SRS, it has recently started from some other political parties, but we are making sure that we keep our own. We always want to preserve the will of the citizens of Serbia and work only in their own interest, so when it comes to judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49169	MP Mirko Munjic has a word. Here you go. You've got 29 minutes, just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49170	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes is a fundamental objective, as we have seen, that employees of Articles 3 and 4 of the Basic Law, with their consent, as it was in the basic law, but also because, as you now say in these amendments and additions, the needs of the service, without their consent, may be addressed to work in a special department. Also, you predict these amendments that against this decision to refer to work in the special department these employees can make a complaint to you, the competent minister of justice, by not delaying the execution of this solution, as you are predicting. It has become clear that employees in this special department are not able to do certain tasks in an adequate way, as they are asked to do, and therefore it is necessary to refer to this special department without their consent. I believe it is becoming increasingly clear, Madam Minister, that the alternative to the arrest of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, in terms of pressure on Serbia, will be under one organised crime and two so-called two so-called. High corruption. It will be what will be the subject of pressure in the coming years. Considering how organized crime is and what is so-called crime. High corruption has taken hold in the state of Serbia, I believe that in one continuity one long time from now on it will be an opportunity for the international community to put pressure on you. According to many studies, organised crime and high corruption, therefore, Serbia is at the bottom of Europe. Only Albania and BiH have a higher degree of corruption than the Serbian state, according to some studies. What does Interior Minister Ivica Dacic's statement tell us that in this year more people who have committed acts of corruption and organised crime have been arrested than in the last five years together? This statement tells us first that corruption and organised crime have entered all the pores of this society, further, that these arrests mainly apply to so-called. petty corruption, such as certain bribery in health, police, municipal administrations, etc., to be left aside generators so-called. high corruption, which is political parties, especially political parties in power. In this country, there is the impression that in one perfiduous way, laws are proposed and that these laws are passed and passed here, but provided they have certain gaps in these laws, the failures that are done, I would say, by order of certain powers, as they do at a certain political point. Let's stick around for a little while on these charges of corruption and organized crime crimes. Mostly small criminals get arrested. Then what does it mean, Madam Minister, that the prosecutor's statement for organised crime, Miljko Radosavljevic, that in the state of Serbia, simply no one will be protected? It's obviously a declarative statement that absolutely doesn't have a foothold in practice. When you government gentlemen intend to persecute those protected from the so-called area. high corruption? Whether or not the exact evaluations of the experts on the so-called so-called a dosed arrest, i.e. an arrest at a certain political point and according to certain and clearly defined and set needs? Are you copying the Croatian model? You know, they started arresting high-ranking state officials when it was simply ordered by the international community or given a warrant, so when they received a clear signal that they were one or two steps closer to entering or some EU negotiations on EU accession. So start now with the arrest of high-ranking state officials. They did it. Do you prescribe the same practice, and in fact, the arrest of Croatian Sanaders will come at such a political moment when the international community has made it clear to you that you should start working and when they tell you that there is a political moment because you are the same as Croatia for one step closer to the EU? Will that be then? The logical question arises – what is, in fact, the objective of amending the Law on the Penalty of Penalty for the Crime of Organized Crime? Because of the lack of workers in special departments for the execution of prison sentences for organised crime, and because of the need for service, someone can, without his consent for a certain period of time, move to this department. But here, Madam Minister, there are certain contradictions. Now I'll tell you which ones. At the time, the president of the state said in his address that Serbia is located, I will try to quote it, at the heart of organised crime, and that the police are doing their job well in this regard. He said it this way -- if that's true, and it's true that Serbia is at the heart of organised crime, that's what all the indicators are saying, then it's logical that everything is cooked in that centre of organised crime. A logical question is also raised, Madam Minister – where is the centre of this center of organised crime? That's a very important question, now I'll tell you why. Is that Belgrade, or maybe it's the periphery? The centre of organised crime, I think we'll all agree, is still Belgrade. If this is Belgrade, then why did drug dealers turn out to be the biggest drug dealers in Arangelovac, in Topoli, in some places on Serbia's periphery, in the south, in the north, etc., when we all know that it's actually the heroin mafia center in Belgrade, that the most drugs are distributed in Belgrade and that there's actually the center of this organized crime? Why did Belgrade become a periphery? How come Zrenjanin gets the status of the centre of the construction mafia, and in Belgrade is the state budget, Madam Minister, to remind you, the state budget of the Republic of Serbia is only a few items we constantly honor, with the right, therefore, when it comes to "Luka" Belgrade, when it comes to the Business Centre "Usje" etc. damaged by a few billion dollars? How did Belgrade become a periphery again, not a centre of the construction mafia? Is this about decentralisation, too, or is there actually a signal waiting for the international community to start processing large fish? If that's true, if it's true that there's a signal waiting for the international community, when the international community gives you a warrant to start processing and arresting certain tycoons, certain political, economic powers, then it's actually going to take a lot more workers in a special department to execute a prison for organised crime, a lot more workers than there are now, a lot more workers than you've predicted to change and supplement this law, but I think you as a government really don't have any political will, or enough capacity to do this. You have no political will, it's clear to all of us, to deal with these huge beasts, with these big beasts, political and economic, who stand at the heart of this mob. That's what all of us, especially Serbian citizens, are asking this government to do. That is what everyone is demanding at this point because I am sure that the citizens of Serbia know clearly and feel who is at the heart of the problem. You, as the government that declared itself at the beginning of its mandate as a socially responsible government, really have neither the political will nor the capacity to do so. That's why the SRS, of course, won't vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49171	The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, is not here. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49172	Madam President, Madam Minister, in every rule of law, the minister of justice is a third man in the country, after the head of state and after the prime minister, the minister of justice is a third man. You, Mrs. Malovic, have rights, but you also have great obligations. I'm afraid this is too much of a bite for you, that you will be able to implement a reform of the judiciary, which would suit this society and Serbia at this moment and in crisis and transitional periods. In the last year since the reform and election and re-election of judges, you have also had messages from the professional public. So you've had messages and criticisms from judicial professionals, colleges and lawyers working elsewhere and in other institutions. The biggest criticism addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia is public criticism sent by citizens. It is a criticism that cannot be avoided, a criticism that points to and warns that in the area of justice, a step forward must be taken. This reform, I'm afraid, is insufficient, is wrong and unsuccessful. It's been a while, it's been a while, and it's been a long time. Mrs Malovic, for this claim, I remind you that you are these days, or the government in which you are a minister, has received hundreds and hundreds of questions from the Council of Europe, asking you to give certain answers when it comes to the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. There are a number of questions that I believe in, and I expect that realistic and accurate answers to what the situation is, nothing to make up, nothing to conceal, but to really do so, so let the EU and the Council value it. I would never dare go public and brag that I was satisfied with how I reformed the judiciary when it was only at the beginning. This is one thing that's been done so far. You have seen that all institutions in both the state and the Council of Europe and other international organisations have made a number of remarks that should be removed in practice. When it comes to this law relating to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes, Mrs Malovic, you, here, have data and statistics - prisons in Serbia are overrun. Is this the result of democratic society? It is now a matter of assessing the citizens of Serbia and the professional public. I'd just like to ask you, there's been a rumor for years that there's going to be a new prison in Panchev. A new prison in Panchev is necessary. In fact, the current building was built in 1804, it does not meet any criteria. These people live in unconditional rooms. There, at the capacity of that prison, is now foreseen by the world standards of 80 prisoners and detainees that they can stay in the premises of that prison compared to the number of squares this prison has. Now there's 160 of them, and it's supposed to be 80. You know when that action was "Sabbe", people come out of prison and say, "Well, now somebody tell me that the boat is a soft tree." Well, they didn't have anywhere to lie, they were lying on the floorboards. The prisons are full. Penalty policy is disastrous. We are now competing in Europe and in the world how we are going to address the issue of crime, corruption and crisis, to impose only strict penalties. I have followed a parallel right, I have processed 11 countries of Europe and EU member states. I have to tell you, the situation in our country is devastating on this point and when re-election of judges you have the courage, I appreciate it, but I think it's gone very unprepared and we've come into a trap that everyone on the side tells us that we in Serbia have practically "cut the princes". When it comes to prisons, employees have low personal incomes. Bad terms in prisons. You have in Panc's location that has been scheduled for years to make a new prison. Think about it, because the prison is in the middle of the city, where the promenade is and so to speak, the Panchean corzo. So much for that prison. Mrs. Malovic, the re-election criteria and the choice of judges were not adequate. Three criteria are basic – expertise and knowledge, dignity and success in solving cases or success in the university. Mrs. Malovic, do you know that there is a judge in England at the age of 52? Do you know that by 52, judges go through all those affairs and all the institutions to learn to be judges, because judges are people who need to share justice, in which citizens need to have and feel legal certainty. Unfortunately, Mrs. Malovic, you're on the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. How could you miss a man who studied for nine years with an estimate of seven to be elected judge or six? Is that a political party? Is this a political resemblance, is our judiciary thrown into a political arena? Personally, I think it is. He can't be a judge in England until he finishes Oxford or Cambridge. We can also have a graduate lawyer with a six, that for a year or two he had experience in an independent trade shop, that he was representing someone and being a judge. Mrs. Malovic, check your statistics, while I was at the Serbian Ministry of Justice, I had a case like that. Even on the same day elected judge and on the same day elected president of the court, which was disastrous. These criteria are not respected. If we want to reform the judiciary, if we want good personnel, political parties to raise their hands from your ministry. I must tell you, I am studying international law, here is the constitution of Germany, which prescribes how judges and the role of the minister of justice are chosen. I would have more confidence, but in that case, it has a greater responsibility of the justice minister to propose that judges be elected, but I would be a supporter to have judges elected in parliament. Why? The High Council of the Judiciary has declared its Rules of Procedure a secret, all data. I have one decision on keeping the confidentiality of the data made by the VSS on 28.10.2009, which says – members of the VSS legal council and persons present at the Council meetings are obliged to make the data, knowledge, exchange of views and busy views to which they come when considering and selecting candidates who have applied for an ad for the selection of judges and judges general and special competences in RS, the official messenger and this, constitute an official secret. He can't do that. I don't agree with this, nor does the SRS agree with this. The data can't be a secret. Chuck, if I ask you now, to set up within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the Law of the National Assembly the question of the VSS, please provide me with all the records on decisions on unselected judges and prosecutors, will you deliver it to me as a MP or president of the Assembly tomorrow be a secret? It can't be a secret. Secondly, how is it possible now to turn these constitutional complaints into objections? Does a man have the right, who spoke to this Constitutional Court, to await the Constitutional Court's decision? You, Mrs. Malovic, have bypassed article 36. The RS Constitution, this would never happen, this scandal. Whether members of the High Council of the judiciary respected Article 36(2), which says - everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which decides on his right, obligation or on a legally based interest. Wasn't it the interest of a man, a thousand people almost, who were out of a job, that their interest was to get first of all the right to appeal? And to happen to the judges, where the High Council had to bear in mind – that these judges were professional and able to oppose and go to Strasbourg. And do you, Mrs Malovic, know, and I believe you know, that the number of constitutional complaints in Strasbourg is now equal to the number of RS residents. We're going that way and that way. So it was a mistake – why did the judges not get the right to appeal? Now you have a constitutional appeal, and you have a complaint in the constitutional court. You have two complaints against the Constitutional Court now. Please, the objection needs to be resolved again: who? Let us abolish the courts, brother dear, and judge the courts in both the first and second stages of the same system and the same species. Let the Criminal Court, the primary court of criminal offences, resolve the same court's appeals, and this is impossible for the VSS to take a second-degree decision of the second-degree body again. I think it's a mistake. That's a little bit to be taken care of. Mrs. Malovic, if I believed in that re-election and reform of yours, you were not a long-time minister, you are a few years of justice, you really do act bravely and try to do some work and organization, but you can't do it alone. You have many obstacles, and you have many ignorant people around you who surround you and participate in this procedure. There are also those who do it out of their own interest. How is it possible that Kuzeljević Milorad from the village of Stublo, the municipality of Čajetina, still conducts the case from 1991 in case P250/91, so these cases ranged from municipal court to district court and back. You can imagine, this object has received ten new items, and it's about one object. How is that possible? A family from Nikojevic for 33 years led a lawsuit. I'm watching what it's like in France, Germany, Italy, the United States, Scotland, Wales and Switzerland. Where we are, as we solve cases, as our judges solve cases, who controls them, abolishing the subject, modified course and confirmed decision. This has to be cleared up once and for all, and the effect of measuring it if it was removed five times, and five times the number changed. Turns out he's in one case for trespassing, he's had five lawsuits and five cases solved, and that's absolutely unacceptable. A number of objections have been addressed by a number of organisations to reform the judiciary, but it has not been taken into account either political opportunities and circumstances, and the struggle to counter parliament, the fight for judicial independence, concepts and elements of the establishment, promotion, deployment, sustainability of the judicial service, material status, physical security, immunity of judges, disciplinary responsibility. Speaking of that responsibility, if a good law had been passed earlier, do you know what kind of order would be in the judiciary? We wouldn't want judges walking around in markets and shops during hours, but we'd be doing our stuff. We don't even have control of the judiciary within the judiciary. We don't have a committee appropriate, nor an inspection to control what judges and courts do under the Rules of Procedure. That's what needs changing. When internal independence, Mrs Malovic, did you know that a judge almost made one decision and that the President of the Court intervened and said – do you know what you said at the College of the Court, where it is allowed to go into the decision for the exemption? It's a criminal act. Secondly, you were glad that reform was a network of courts. The network of courts is a disaster at the expense of taxpayers. Why is that network of dishes bad? Huge material travel costs. Secondly, we brought in people who are judging from smaller courts where there were five judges in a small place that has 10,000 inhabitants and they are now judging for the most serious crimes, and there they have tried for stealing chickens, stealing bicycles and forest theft. It's a problem not being taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49173	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. You have five minutes left, Mr. Savior.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, at the end of this debate which had the kind of epilogue she had, given the great failures in the appointment of this session and the inability to make certain things in addition to the amendments, I will say with delay that I have received extraordinary proposals from the Society of Judges, with complete facts and appeal of what needs to be changed and how this law should be improved, and given the procedure and the Rules of Procedure, there is no way to submit any amendments, but there are excellent solutions. On this occasion, I would like to appeal to the minister to pay attention to the objections of the Society of Judges which are very correct and very professional. Of course, at the end of this discussion, I'm going to look at one more thing that's the main problem with these amendments and the addition of the law that we have on the agenda today. Mrs. Minister, the two-stage need to be provided, it is clear that, here is fellow Jojic pointed out something that I wanted to point out, the VS that decides on the choice by appeal could not decide again, set a good example if you have a first-degree court that has made the decision, you file a complaint with someone in the second degree, and no one who decides who has already decided on it. All colleagues and heads of parliament groups and debaters have pointed to, practically, everything that is a problem with this law. I think there's room here and a little attention in your backyard. Simply, it is evident that in the procedure carried out, a number of infringements have been committed, which relate to incomplete, inadequate composition of the High Council of the judiciary, I think of the first moment when the mass of judges was chosen, it was completed only at the end, bias, conflict of interest of its members. I don't want to mention names, you'll probably agree with me here. Then, a great presence of secrecy, and surely that the interest of both these congregations and all participants in the adoption of these laws is to be all transparent, which was also a certain observation of the European Commission, a lack of debate in this process, the application of unobstructive, undeveloped and untrusted criteria and criteria, breach of the principle of legal certainty, the principles of bis in i go and reformation in peius, the prohibition of discrimination. So, you should consider, eventually, when it's decided on this very composition of the High Council of the judiciary, because when we passed the law, we said that maybe there was too much accumulation of functions in one place. At the same time, we have representatives of parliament, we have representatives of the Ministry of Justice, which is basically fine, but surely the professional public, the judges themselves, must be more represented when determining the criteria. Of course, there were a lot of problems, and in the fact that there were not enough criteria for the evaluation of the work of individual judges itself, of course it took a certain time, unfortunately I repeatedly pointed out, among other things, when I mentioned biology, I meant normal retirement of people. I think there was room and sure that one such law would also be a reform of the judiciary made in one way that would satisfy the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49175	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49176	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate today. I think this is another way to remove any doubt or doubt that exists about judicial reform. On this occasion, I would like to make my point, at least from this discussion today, I've seen that a lot of debaters don't really understand what justice reform is. To a large extent, the reform of the judiciary has been reduced to a general choice, and I will agree with some MPs who have made their position here that in fact the judicial reform is understood through dialogue regarding unselected judges. The reform of the judiciary is much broader than the general election process. The general election process can be a prerequisite for further implementation of the reform, but reform means changing procedures, both changing procedures in litigation and criminal proceedings or enforcement procedures. The Department of Justice has worked hard on this and will continue to work. The law on enforcement is also mentioned here, and I am deeply convinced that it will be on parliament's agenda in January, and as a government, we will try to establish the bill, perhaps in the course of next week, so that parliament will have enough time to look at it before the debate begins. Then, under the reform of the judiciary, there is also a change in the organisation of work. The organisation of the work involves not only changing the network of courts, but acting within the courts themselves. Seems to me like we've done a lot of work on that field, too. He was recently released into the program for automatic object management. I'll tell you what, we got an international credit for making that portal inside the courts. What also falls under the reform of the judiciary, which may be the hardest thing to do, but our goal is to pursue it, and I am deeply convinced that we will reach it, it is a change of consciousness. We are still a country in transition and many things here need to be adapted to transition from one social and state system to another. The main objectives we set in the judicial reform are to raise efficiency, intensify the fight against organised crime and corruption and strengthen investment through the economic judiciary. I'm not saying we've already reached those goals, but I'd say we're on our way to reaching those goals. When the thematic session of this distinguished home was organised, I gave you the results that exist at the level of the economic judiciary and the results that exist at the level of the higher court in Belgrade, where the highest number of criminal proceedings has been concentrated. I agree that there may have been delays in certain courts, but I am deeply convinced that you will agree with me that efficiency cannot be seen through the work of a court, but we must look at the level of all courts in Serbia. I will be very happy to be open to all criticisms or suggestions, and where there are problems as minister of justice, I will advocate that we solve them. These amendments to the law are not just the result of criticism made by the European Commission, although it may have been obtained through my speech. We didn't start talking to the European Commission until after a progress report was released or released for Serbia, which came in November this year. We've been talking to the European Commission for a very long time. We had several meetings, both here in Belgrade and in Brussels. It was also known to the general public that there was an organised task force made up of representatives of the Justice Ministry, on the one hand, then the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, on the other hand being representatives of the European Commission. There were a few letters we received from Commissioner Phil. One is quoted here, and I tried to quote another, where one interactive dialogue between our authorities and the European Commission is visible, and I would say that all of this is perceived by the efforts we are making to close the issue of judicial reform in all our segments. In this law, you've had a chance to see two issues resolved. One question is the composition of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors and the way we suggested that candidate status for the VSS election member could be obtained I would say that it removes any doubt or doubt about any possibility of politicisation. I'm talking about doubt, I'm not talking about real action. On the other hand, there is a procedure for reviewing decisions. As a member of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, I am absolutely certain of the decisions we have made. Those decisions make me proud. I'm not going to say that there were no failures or mistakes, a living man is wrong, and it's absolutely impossible to claim that you're innocent and that you haven't made mistakes. Can those mistakes be removed? I can. As I was saying, we made decisions according to our security, in accordance with the regulations we had before us, and as a member of the VSS, I have no problem, and I am deeply convinced that those decisions should be reviewed through the procedure provided for in the law. Of course, the law gives general principles for this procedure. More detailed arrangements must be made under the Regulation on criteria and criteria. It is a document which, on the one hand, is a procedural character, on the other hand of material character and we will do this document in collaboration with representatives of the Venice and the European Commission. I expect we'll start working on it in January. I am aware that this law by emergency procedure has come to the agenda, but I am convinced that you will have understanding of this urgency, since VSS and the State's Major Prosecutors must be formed and only after the formation of permanent compositions is the process of reviewing. Here are the remarks or suggestions made by the Judges' Society. I have to tell you that I had that document in mind, because it was sent to the Ministry of Justice and to the Venice Commission and we had it on the table when we discussed the provisions of the laws that are in front of you today. A question has been asked about the presidents of the courts. This will be discussed with the European Commission when the Presidents of the Courts will be elected, whether they will do so on a permanent or current VSS composition. Finally, I want to point out once again that the steps we are taking, we are not taking because it is our mere obligation in the process of European integration, we are taking for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because everything we are doing, in the end of the day, needs to reflect on the citizens of Serbia, and whether we are going to achieve this or not, the citizens themselves will give their own judgment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-12-22-0.u49177	I thank Minister Malovic. Unfortunately, Mr. Jojic, I couldn't give you my word, I can't do it in my Rules of Procedure. I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crimes, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Amendment of Courts, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. We'll be working on tomorrow at 10:00, discussing the draft budget bill.
