ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45316	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I remind the National Assembly that on Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the session is under Article 286(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means the right of the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, to ask a question, that is, to request a notice or an explanation, oral in one address for up to five minutes, immediately after the opening of the session and the establishment of the Members of Parliament attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate. I ask the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups to claim their right. National MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45317	A week ago, we asked a question concerning October 10th and events related to the date in Belgrade. In these seven days, we haven't received any response from the departments. Let's start by assuming that maybe we didn't get that right. Let's do it over and over and over again. I would ask the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, because they are primarily the two competent ministries, to answer certain specific questions. First, how many people were detained in connection with October 10th events in Belgrade? How many faces have been prosecuted and exactly for what crimes? What's the age structure of those faces? How many minors are there among them? To provide us with an accurate list of the names of those persons, because even if there are minors among them, that list of minors can be delivered to us as MPs. It's not for the public. Furthermore, to deliver precisely the structure of the earlier convictions of those persons, to know exactly how many of these persons are in the criminal record and how many of these persons were previously conducted and against how many of these persons, or for which one of these persons is kept a police record, as it is said in a Colloquial manner – known to the police earlier. Then I need written information about an earlier security assessment of the rally. I'm talking about a meeting called the so-called so-called event. "The Parade of Pride." Who gave that assessment? I think that's what the B.I.A. gave her. When did that assessment come to the M.E.P. and the Director of the Police and how long before they organized the meeting and held it together, did they know that? I'm interested in the next thing -- if this meeting was assessed as safe, would the MUP answer me what the 6,000 police officers on the streets of Belgrade wanted? If there was an estimate that this meeting wasn't safe, why did the police let the meeting happen in the first place? This doesn't go into the evaluation or assessment of any hooliganism or any aggression that other people on the streets of the city were exhibiting, which is why I asked this first part of the question concerning the procession. I'm curious as to why and how and if any criminal proceedings against the organisers of the so-called. "The Parade of Pride" and where is their responsibility, and what is the assessment of the police and the Justice Department regarding their responsibility? Are they among them as organizers of the gathering, which is obvious, because everything else is a dizziness, in fact, was an initial capsule for causing riots, which, of course, was supported by the Serbian Government, it is clear to all, there is someone against whom a criminal procedure has been committed for these reasons and whether and in what way will their responsibility be determined? Because regardless of the presence of 6,000 police officers on the street, the organizer was obliged to take precautions for security. Exactly what measures did the organizer take to secure the meeting? How many people took part in the security of this meeting by the organizers? What did that look like? Exactly, to get written information about it. Who's going to give us information? There's no one but the M.O.P., because they had to have that information about an appointment together. Therefore, we would have to get this information, in order not to further suppress the public on this issue and on the issue of liability for the October 10th events, because it is known that whoever was the organizer is actually the most responding, that the one who provides full support to the organiser also answers, and of course those who make the incidents, regardless of which side, should also respond. Please let us get this information as soon as possible. It's been seven days, and I'm asking you to keep this information available for at least the next 48 hours. That's not hard at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45318	Ambassador Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45319	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days is extremely manipulated in public by the sale of "Mobtel", and great promises are made on the basis of the funds to be received from the sale of Telecom. That's why I'm asking the question of Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic, because he is most manipulative in his statements – how were the funds spent by the "Mobtel" and is it true that the RS government, the outgoing government of Vojislav Kostunica, left in the budget a billion euros from the payment of "Mobtel", where no single euro was spent in the cash register with Minister Cvetkovic, then the finance minister and the NIP, and that 300m euros were left from the sale of the third operator, that is "VIP" and that 360m euros were left from the sale of the "Belgrade houses"? In all, the government, which is now in power, had two billion and 260m euros left in the budget, which were obtained from the sale of these three facilities I was talking about. So sales and collection left so much money. I ask Minister Dinkic to spend two billion and 260m euros, in what way and did most of these funds go to the ZES coalition election campaign? That's true, and that's why I'd like them to deliver exactly how the funds were spent, how and how were they spent? It's not true that there were no projects being manipulated. The projects were but it was agreed that certain projects are being carried out by concessions and the entire financial part of the concession was led by Mladjan Dinkic. He and his ministry then chose a financial adviser, a legal adviser and a technical adviser to carry out the concession. He said that that part of the concession will be excluded, and the rest of the parts will be covered by these funds received from the sale of these three companies. Therefore, I am now afraid and I have great mistrust in the same set that the Telecom funds don't go away, that the Telecom funds don't go away in some way so that the ruling coalition doesn't want it to go away for any future campaign and that Serbia gets nothing. I repeat, Dinkic demanded in the government that he be empowered to make a proposal on how funds would be spent and that he be authorised in front of the government to sell "Mobtel" and he directly ran and sold and placed funds. Of course, it has not been done, no bypass around Belgrade has been completed, not a series of projects that were planned in this way have not been done. Therefore, I would ask Serbian citizens not to listen to these promises Dinkic, which he makes these days, when we sell Telecom, we will create double infrastructure facilities. That's what he said at the government, and they have records that I've been to. When the "Mobtel" is sold, large infrastructure facilities will be built, etc., I don't know, Banat will get water, water supply to Banat, the Svrtkovo dam, five thousand apartments, I don't know what everything, Banatska highway, one lane of highway etc., Pojate – Preljina, and there was nothing of it, because the funds were spent, of course, for various budget needs, for the creation of regional parties, which it is now doing, to cover its projects on the Old Mountain, ski resorts, etc. That's why I'd like another tax to be written in response, how the money was spent 2,260,000,000; I repeat 1,600,000 of "Mobtel", 300,000 of the third operator "Vip" and 360,000,000 of the collection of the "Belgrade" Stock Houses.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45320	The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45321	Miss
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45322	Thank you. The word is Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45323	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have been asked by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent authorities two weeks ago a very important issue concerning the health care of detained Serbs in The Hague. As we informed you at the time, according to Russian Academy of Sciences experts, 16 Serbs were killed in The Hague in the arrest or treatment received in The Hague, while some witnesses and important witnesses, in the most important cases before the UN tribunal in The Hague from Serbia, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia went neatly to testify in The Hague tribunal, to go away healthy and to return badly. We've also asked the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Health, and we've delivered appropriate medical reports. We also asked the Ministry of Defense. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not given us answers to these important issues. Instead, the government of the Republic of Serbia has prevented any possibility of helping detained Serbs in The Hague tribunal. I would like to inform you that the tribunal in The Hague is pronounced by a lack of budget funds. That's their point of view, that they can't conduct proper interventions, because they have little money. According to official data, the tribunal's budget for this year alone amounts to 302,000,000 US dollars, plus 33 state donations, as NGOs, such as Sorosev's Fund, Carnegie and Rockefeller's Foundation. They have a huge amount of money, but that money is used exclusively by the prosecution. As you know, according to doctors, Dr Vojislav Seselj was also given cardiotoxic drugs, according to reports from 2009, which caused arrhythmias and made his health worse. He is not the only such case, one prisoner was given medications that he was allergic to and later turned up with blisters on his skin. He had a hard time getting that treatment in The Hague. I would like to remind you that there has been an announcement at the status conference on September 21st and a surgical intervention on Vojislav Seselj. A surgical intervention that's supposed to take place in Holland. However, we certainly fear for his life, primarily because of the relationship to detained Serbs, and also because the official Ministry of Health of the Netherlands and the Dutch Government published a study to which 16 thousand Dutch people ended up in hospital for inadequate treatment, because doctors prescribed wrong medications. So, 16 thousand of them, a detailed analysis has been made, a detailed report that has also been published in the means of information in the Netherlands, covering all types of hospitals and medical institutions. I think this really is one important question that should alarm everyone. While the government of the Republic of Serbia is silent, not wanting to protect the life and health of the detained Serbs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in The Hague, the Russian Federation reacted. The famous Bakunin Institute in Russia and the head of the cardiology department of Prof. Leo Bokeria also expressed his opinion on the health status of detained Serbs, in this case Dr Vojislav Seselj, who is disastrous. I remind you once again that the medications received by Vojislav Seselj in The Hague cassamat cause arrhythmias and lead to life-threatening conditions. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia must react instead of silently, instead of preventing Dr. Mijailovic, specifically Mr. Sutanovac of the Ministry of Defence and VMA Chief Mr. Jevtic, they prevented Dr. Mijailovic from giving an advisory opinion on the health of Vojislav Seselj last month, although he has since October been a doctor of Vojislav Seselj, i.e. After examining him in The Hague and making a report on October 16th, a doctor-patient relationship was established between him and Vojislav Seselj. He was not appointed at the request of Vojislav Seselj or at the request of defence, he was appointed by order of the Search Council of Three, headed by Judge Jean-Claude Antonetti, and by election of the tribunal's Secretariat in The Hague. So neither Vojislav Seselj nor the defence team wrote in 2009 nor sent him to the Ministry of Defence, so there was no need to really refer any request this year either.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45324	According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, on the joint principle and uniform search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Decision on a Health Development Plan, in addition to the representatives of Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, called for the session to be attended by Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of Health. We continue to work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st and 2nd part of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SERBILITY LAW (Common Principleal and Single Search) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle and uniform principle search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda, and before opening a joint search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, and that is: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a parliamentary group of PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 96(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that according to this item of the agenda of the parliamentary group, the following MPs are: Momo Colaković – PUPS, Zlata Đeric – New Serbia, MP Zoran Bortic – MP group SPS-JS, MP Milan Dimitrijevic – Parliament group DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Paja Momcilov – SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 192(3) and Article 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform review of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Decision on a Plan for the Development of Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposer's representative, Professor Tomica Milosavljevic, the health minister, want a word? Yeah. You have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have a law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act and a plan for the development of health care for the Republic of Serbia for the period 2010-2015. The Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act has a small number of members, and there are nine of them, and it essentially refers to the revision of the legal solution and the law adopted in 2005, which has been applied since 2008, in the way it was regulated by the Health Protection Act and regulates this law on changes and additions, the additional work of healthcare professionals. I'll try to remind you briefly of these solutions and explain them. Therefore, the law proposed by a healthcare professional, a health associate, as well as by another person employed in a health institution, can carry out additional work in a health care institution, i.e. in private practice outside of regular working hours, in accordance with this law, which means that this supplemental work can be done by the employer with whom the healthcare worker has a full-time contract, as well as by another employer, provided that this work does not affect the organisation of the work of individual parts of a health institution or health institution in general, up to a third full-time job. This additional work contract may be concluded for those services not covered by mandatory content, volume and standard insurance, and thereafter for those services provided by a health care institution for the purposes of an organisation of compulsory insurance for which it cannot otherwise provide an appropriate fit, as well as for the provision of services provided by a healthcare institution for the purposes of persons who do not have the capacity of the insured person. The additional work contract shall define both the type or manner and the duration of the work, the height and the method of determining the fee, the obligation to issue an account on the prescribed form, the payment time for the paid salary, shall be defined within 30 days of the provision of the healthcare service. It is the obligation of the institution to keep precise records of the concluded contracts and to specifically express and manage the funds that have been achieved on this basis. So this amendment of the law basically corrects an inequality that was created a year and a half ago. I can say that the Health Protection Act, which we adopted together in 2005, has produced two very important results in its application in this area. One is the fiscalization of every medical service paid for. So anything you legally pay in the healthcare system has to be followed by a fiscal account. Since 2008, since traffic over fiscal tills became an obligation, when the period of June 2009 - March 2010, total turnover based on legally paid services has been over five billion dinars. So one of the important positive results of the Health Protection Act is the obligation to fiscalise, which regulated the flow of money in a precise way. Another positive effect of such a regulated supplemental work is the possibility that a state-owned health care institution can organise this supplemental work. During 2010, the services paid by the Republic Health Insurance Office to state-owned healthcare institutions to do so for non-performing insurance companies are practically about two billion dinars. These are two undeniable good and positive results. The laws serve to examine, correct and propose their changes if there are serious legitimate reasons. The Ministry of Health believes that in these years and a half, the inequality of supplementary work among healthcare professionals has been created, so that the unformed health workers in the military service and those employed in higher education institutions had a right that did not belong to others, and this bill corrects it. Simply put, the law that has a small number of members, correcting this inequality, allows us, on the one hand, to create conditions to meet the ever growing needs, to provide conditions and to improve quality through this solution, to provide conditions and patients for a wider choice and to hire a larger number of employees in years of economic crisis. This creates the possibility that healthcare professionals can finally earn more in the legal way and according to the procedures provided for in the law. As far as the second document is concerned today, he is the Health Protection Plan of the Republic of Serbia and stems as an obligation under the Health Protection Act and is the result of a broad consultation framework during 2009, which included several roundtables and public debates organised by the Ministry of Health, under the auspices of the Institute of Public Health Milan Jovanovic Batut and the Health Council of Serbia. The result is a consultation of the profession in the best sense of the word. This is a 46-page document, which defines in its opening work that health has a very important impact on people's ability to live their daily lives, contribute to social and economic development, i.e. the overall success of the country and health must be approached as a major national resource that deserves continued positive development and constant strategic thinking. So, the plan is in line with a number of international documents, starting from WHO-led declarations back in 1978, over the 1990s, to a strategic approach together for health and EU documents and health development strategies in EU countries. The plan is based on the objectives of health policy, and the objectives of health policy... I am sorry that citizens cannot hear what I hear, and that is that most MPs have no interest in hearing what the objectives of health policy are defined at the beginning of the health system development plan. Health policy aims at preserving and improving the health status of the Serbian population, strengthening the health potential of the nation, fair and equal access to health care and all citizens of Serbia for the same needs, putting users at the heart of the health care system, sustainability of the health system, with decentralisation, selective in resource management, expanding resources and funding methods, improving the functioning of health system efficiency.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45326	I'm sorry, I'll interrupt for a while. Dear People's MPs, you know you have no obligation to sit in the hall during the session, and please, if you are already sitting, we respect speakers who speak and the minister who exhibits. Thank you for not in the future, and we will not break together the Rules of Procedure that we ourselves have brought. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Define the improvement of the functioning of the efficiency and quality of the system, with the definition of specific national programmes in the areas of staff, networks, institutions, technologies, medical supplies, the definition of the role of the private sector in providing private services to the population, as well as the improvement of the personnel base through human resources for health. The main objective of the plan, whose basic premises are contained in these health policy objectives, is to preserve and improve the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and the sustainability of the health care system. This plan summarises the current state of health care in the Republic of Serbia based on a survey of the health of the population in 2000 and 2006, a study of multiple indicators of the state of health of children and women in 2000 and 2005, a study of living standards, an analysis of the burden of society with diseases and injuries from 2003, European studies on the use of alcohol and other drugs among young people in Serbia in 2008, as well as numerous reports of analytical studies, such as the Institute of Batut 1997/2007. Year, Serbian statistical yearbooks, Republic Statistics Institute documents, demographic statistics. When comparing indicators with other countries in the European region, WHO data from the database "Health for All" have been used. Therefore, this plan specifically defines socio-economic health determinants, the health status of the population, with a special emphasis on chronic non-infectious diseases leading to disease and disability, prematurely, before 65, dying of the population of the Republic of Serbia, with a special accent on heart disease, cerebral-vascular disease, lung cancer, infectious disorders, diabetes. Chronic non-infectious diseases accounted for over 85% of all causes of death in our country in 2008. In the structure of mortality, heart and blood vessels were more than half of all fatal outcomes. Every fifth person died was the victim of a malignant tumor. Risk factors were analysed particularly in the plan, including smoking tobacco, hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, obesity, malnutrition, physical inactivity, environmental risks, alcohol abuse and psychoactive substances. A health care service with its basic organisational structure has been analysed, with a network of state-owned health institutions, as well as health institutions in private property and private practice, capacity analysis, and institutional and humane, analysis of the use of health care and analysis of environmental factors, and the financing of healthcare with the distribution of financial resources and payment of service providers. The second chapter analyses priorities in the development of healthcare which are defined as preserving the improvement of the health of the population and organisations and the functioning of health care with bearing pillars and functions of the system, with intermedial objectives concerning accessibility covering the quality and efficiency and general objectives or outcome of the system relating to improved health, level and justice, responsibility for non-medical expectations of people, protection from financial risks and the impact of the system. Thereafter, priority areas of prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases, with defined disease reduction targets and premature death of heart and blood vessels, with activities in this area, and reduction of disease and premature death of malignancies, with activities in this area, and reduction of injury to activities, reduction of disease and premature death of diabetes, with activities, improvement of mental health with activities, prevention and control of infectious diseases, with objectives and activities, reduction of disease and premature death of HIV infection with activities, reduction of disease and premature death of tuberculosis, with the development of a system for rapid response to health threats. The special chapter is dedicated to the health care of particularly sensitive groups of the population – women in reproductive age, infants, young children, school children and youth, improving and maintaining the health of the elderly, achieving the full health potential of people with disabilities, improving and maintaining the health of the working-active population, especially the improvement and preservation of the health of marginalised population groups. The priority areas of the organisation and the functioning of health care have then been discussed, with a tendency to integrate health care, with the aim of strengthening the role of the institute and public health services, to address 80% of the needs of primary protection institutions, with increasing the commitment of the population to the institution of the selected physician, improving the availability and accessibility of the services of the users, functioning and functional integration of the outpatient and hospital emergency medical care, improving the functional link between health care services in the healthcare system. Then, the co-operation of the institutes and public health institutions and primary healthcare institutions with local community institutions and organisations, the improvement of the partnership between the state and private sectors, as well as the definition of the role of the non-governmental sector in health and health care activities. In particular, the plan deals with human resources in the health system, with the improvement of not only legal regulation but also with the development of human resources management capacities in the system, adapting the training of health profession staff with the real needs of society, as well as improving the information system for human resources planning in the health system. One chapter is dedicated to an integrated health and information system, with the aim of establishing such an integrated health information system, with the aim of strengthening the quality of health care and patient safety. Continued improvement in the quality of healthcare and patient safety is the primary objective. In one chapter, funding is considered, with financial stability of the health system, improving efficiency and quality of the provision of health services in the quality function and increased safety. The key role in the implementation of this plan is, of course, the institutions of the state, with great responsibility of the Ministry of Health, but the plan defines the responsibilities of other authorities of the state administration, the Health Council of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Health Insurance Fund, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, the Agency for the Accreditation of Health Institutions, the bodies of autonomous provinces, the bodies of local self-government units, together with institutes, i.e. public health and health institutions at all levels of health care and private practice, institutions of social protection, universities and schools of health care professions, chambers of health workers, chambers of health institutions, means of public information, associations and international organisations dealing with public health issues. The funds for the implementation of the plan will be provided by way of succession of the RS annual budgets, and the plan will be the subject of evaluation at each stage of the process and for this evaluation, health indicators that have been internationally accepted are used. The health care development plan defines the period 2010-2015 and represents a significant step forward in the organisation of the health system in Serbia and the creation of Serbia's health council itself, the Assembly has sent a clear message to citizens that responsibility for health is high and high and that investment in health in every regulated society is the right and best investment in sustainable economic and any other future of the country and nation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45328	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups during today's work will be: Dr Simo Vukovic, the G17 Plus MP group; Professor Nebojsa Rangelovic, the LDP parliamentary group and Dr Nikola Krpic, the PUPS parliamentary group. Does the Committee on Health and Family Reporter Dr Simo Vukovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? He has the word Dr. Nikola Krpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45329	The RS Constitution, Article 97 of item 1 of point 10, found that the Republic of Serbia is regulating and providing a system in the field of health care. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, I express my satisfaction, as MP of the PUPS, today in front of the Serbian public in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, there is a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act and a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop the health care of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the RS government. Dear Presidents, PUPS MPs in voting day will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, as well as the proposal for a decision on a plan to develop health care for the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because the proposal brings these two documents with the active participation of all, by the legislators, through the working bodies of the National Assembly, that is, the Health Committee, which has accepted at its session the reasons for the adoption of this law. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 97. The RS constitution, which is prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a health system in general in order to meet the ever growing needs of citizens in the use and provision of health care to all citizens in RS territory. By organising the complementary work of health associates, as well as other persons employed in health institutions and private practice, in such a way as to enable them to perform certain health services in health institutions and private practice, and wherever these persons have a full-time contract. In this way, waiting lists are reduced, citizens are given a better and wider choice of health and paramedical workers and associates, providing adequate health care that these persons finance from their own pocket. In this way there will be more employees of medical and paramedical workers, both in health institutions and in private practice. Such a proposal will provide the necessary fit, both with specializations and with narrow specializations, which are not available in certain areas and such personnel in major cities, e.g. Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje, Kragujevac and others have, which can be realised by means of a supplemental work contract in a particular health institution or private practice where there is a need. Dear Presidents, PUPS MPs will vote in favour of this bill, because its application does not require any additional funding, which is at this economic point where we find ourselves important to know. In other words, this is a reasonable proposal from the government, and I call on all MPs in parliament to cast their vote in the day of voting and to unite it with PUPS MPs for better and more rational health protection of our citizens. The constitutional basis or basis for the adoption of the Proposal for a Decision on a Health Protection Development Plan in RS is found in Article 99(1), point 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the National Assembly brings general acts out of its jurisdiction. The legal basis for the adoption of the Proposal for a Decision on the Health Development Plan is also found in Article 16. Law on health protection of the Serbian population. This law provides several good proposals. First, availability. Availability, as a criterion, includes efficient infrastructure and public health services, as well as quality health care. Second, accessibility. Accessibility involves non-discrimination, physical accessibility, affordable prices and information. Third, acceptability. Acceptability implies respect for the principle of doctoral ethics, sensitivity for different lifetimes and health institutions, in order to improve the health and health status of all users. Fourth, quality. Quality implies a complete health infrastructure that should be scientific and medical quality. The fifth, mentioned and other rights have been established by international law and agreements that oblige RS to respect all documents signed since 1946, when the World Health Organization was established until today. Let's not forget, health is defined as a state of total physical, mental and social well-being, not just the absence of disease. This definition points to the need to develop awareness among citizens and a broad range of concepts of health beyond the absence of disease. The concept of health is treated as a basic human and social need and associated health with basic human needs for the preservation of health, not only of individuals, but of society in general. If we realize that health and human well-being are synonyms, that is. they mean meeting all human needs within the framework of maintaining health, then it is normal for the state to do everything to ensure guaranteed rights by the constitution regulated and that it must constantly monitor and create conditions to achieve them. Our country is guaranteed all international health acts. In line with all that has been stated so far, the PUPS parliamentary group accepts this proposal, and in the day to vote, we will support the proposal for a decision on a Health Protection Development Plan, with the invitation of fellow Members to follow us. This further supports another fact that this plan does not require additional funding from the budget for its implementation. Basic axioma – health for all, that is the basic reason that PUPS MPs will vote in voting day for this very important health document.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45330	I thank Dr. Krpić. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45331	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I felt very uncomfortable earlier when we received a warning that we were not listening to the minister's presentation and that if we were bored or if we didn't like what Mr. Minister was saying we could leave the session. It has just happened that my distinguished predecessor, former exhibitor, Mr. Krpić, did not listen, talking to his associate, and many who are present here have acted in the same way. On the other hand, from Mr. Minister, we received a lecture on health system deficiencies and anomalies that need to be changed urgently to improve the health system and health care in Serbia. That's quite all right, but it's not right that the minister who's been in that position since 2002 tells us about it. Then the question is, whose fault were those anomalies made? Let's remember, this isn't the first changes and additions to this law, there have been before. On whom lies the responsibility for these shortcomings and anomalies that we now, behold, need to correct? If we go one step at a time, after the first closer introduction of the text and the content of the proposed acts, we see that the health minister, to remind and repeat, in all governments since 2002, once again offers two more than convincing evidence of his impotence, inability and inability to face all the weaknesses, weaknesses and problems of our long-running health system. Once again, it confirms that he never had the intention, nor the will to make any fundamental and systemic changes in that inherited system. Here's concrete evidence and concrete objections to that. Let us first look at what the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act contains. Cosmetic amendments to the provisions of Articles 199 to 202 of the applicable Health Protection Act, which regulated the possibility of implementing the so-called “Health Protection Act”. supplemental work of healthcare professionals employed in health institutions, in the case of employers, state health institutions or in private practice. The second proposed amendment was to delete the current member of the 277th same law, which practically made it impossible for healthcare professionals employed by state health institutions to be both employed and in private practice, starting in December 2008, since the application of the famous Ministers' Rules on Supplemental Work. What do the proposed amendments of the law show us? They show us that Mr. Minister, who proposed the law to us five years ago, did not deal with essential issues and problems of functioning of the health system and defining, more than necessary, the change of the system. If so, why in 2005 did he propose that healthcare professionals at state-owned health institutions would no longer be able to work in private practice after December 2008. As a result, in the past two years, why has the problem been presented as a major problem in the health system of the Republic of Serbia, which has been exhausted by the Ministry of Health and the medical chamber, health institutions and employees of healthcare workers to the end? Why in the past two years have healthcare professionals been able to work additionally in public health institutions? In the end, why is a different solution proposed today that, with minor changes, represents a return to the state before 2005? It is precisely because the problem of the possibility or inability to perform additional work of healthcare workers is only one of the consequences of the wrongly set health system, especially its functioning in practice. Why are we not dealing with the removal of systemic causes that have led to such a problem, rather than the consequences that should calm down legitimately dissatisfied healthcare professionals? Let's take a look at what unresolved systemic issues are. Mr. Minister, you're saying that funding our health system is based on a social-health insurance model. As a historian, I will add the right – so-called Bismark model. If so, this implies that the majority of the population are necessarily health insurance and that they pay contributions to health insurance to the compulsory health insurance organisation and that they rightly expect the organisation to provide it with a specific volume, type and content of health services from these paid contributions. These services can be provided, contracts or purchases from existing health institutions, whether they are in state or private property. Those services have their own price. The question arises as to why you have not defined in the past eight and a half years this famous package of compulsory health insurance services, which are the means of contributions paid to health insurance organisations of compulsory health insurance, can be realistically and must provide compulsory insurance to citizens. Then you would know what services are truly covered by paid contributions, which are not and must be paid out of their own pocket. Instead, you continue to support the illusion that we have the right to almost all health services, and when we get into a situation to use them, then we can't do it or we have to pay those same services again. If you once defined this famous package of health services that covers compulsory insurance, then you would have to leave the health insurance organisation free to arrange these services with all healthcare facilities that can provide them both to the state and to the private. Instead, as you yourself acknowledge, in the proposed plan to develop health care, you use this health insurance to finance the capacities of state health institutions, not the services they provide. What, then, is what is called a compulsory health insurance organization? Figuratively speaking, a flow water heater to finance the existing capacities of state health institutions. In doing so, you have denied private practice the right to provide health services covered by compulsory insurance under the same conditions. Then what's going on? As a citizen who pays a mandatory contribution to health insurance, I often cannot achieve my right to a service in a state health care institution, because it exists only on paper, so I am forced to ask for this service in private practice and to pay it again. Is this a question to be asked in this way if the private healthcare sector was evenly involved in the healthcare system and if the sector had the possibility to conclude health insurance contracts under the same conditions as in state institutions, or if health institutions did not have a monopoly in providing health services under the same conditions as in compulsory health insurance? Why are we today the only country in Europe where the provision of primary healthcare services is exclusively a monopoly, and this long-overrun form of state health homes, while in most European countries more than 80% of healthcare services provide private practice? Would not including private practice, with all available resources, and providing primary healthcare services necessarily increase the availability of both the scope and quality of these services? Wouldn't the majority of doctors be stimulated in this way, so he could be constantly employed in private practice, not forced to make extra money in private practice because he was poorly paid at a state institution? Wouldn't the founders of this private practice be motivated to engage more doctors in a permanent working relationship, expand their spatial capacities and invest in equipment? Where in the current system is the possibility of choices for compulsory insurance and other citizens, and you are talking about it as one of the reasons for the proposed measures, i.e. the law? How will that choice increase when it practically does not exist? Can I, as a citizen who is provided with health benefits and pays for health insurance contributions, choose whether I will exercise my right to primary care services in a public health home or in private practice? Why don't I have a chance to choose the one in private practice for my chosen doctor? Is that a free choice or a forced choice? As long as the private sector integration programme in the healthcare system is not a system that will be resolved and until private practice has the opportunity to provide services to compulsory insurance undertakings under the same conditions as the state institution, the problem of the doctor's ability to be able or unable to be at the same time engaged in state and private practice cannot be adequately addressed. The number of cases like this is clear. I would ask a question, which is why there is no law on pharmaceutical activity in Serbia, and we know what kind of anomalies there is, and we know what kind of problems it creates. If you don't know how to write the law, go to whoever knows. In the LDP parliamentary club, there is already a draft of such a law, done according to the highest European standards, similar to those of the EU countries. Ask us if you can't do the job you're paid for yourself. I don't know if the time will allow me, but I will also try to look back on the proposal for a decision on a health care development plan in the Republic of Serbia. I'll try to ask some questions accordingly. The provisions of Article 17 shall apply. The Health Protection Act is required to contain a health care development plan. Under these provisions, the development plan, in addition to priorities in health care, objectives, measures and health care activities, should also contain indicators to monitor the achievement of the objectives, measures and activities and deadlines for achieving the objectives of health care. There are also criteria for establishing networks of health institutions in the Republic of Serbia, there are elements for planning, training of workers in the health care system, as well as elements for planning and building new and restructuring existing facilities in terms of space and equipment. What of the above contains the health care development plan proposed to us? It is a deficient, scarce and above all subjective demonstration of the current state of health care in RS, declarative and general objectives and priorities, with unclear and superficially defined activities in the realization of some of the strategies adopted so far, their parts or individual programmes in the field of health care, without precisely defined carriers, deadlines for their implementation and precisely defined monitoring indicators. In this regard, the anomaly is clear, and that is why at the end of my opening presentation, I would recapitulate the questions, and that is, in my opinion, the question of all questions. Does the Ministry of Health have any answers to the questions I've asked here? When will we receive concrete answers and will the state once do what is necessary in the health care of citizens? I expect the minister to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45332	National MP Zoran Bortic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45333	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, the area of human health is one of the most important areas that any modern state should regulate if it wants to meet the modern standards of human rights and freedoms, but not only that, without a healthy nation, there is no successful organisation of society, no expansion of economic development or prosperity. Most of us in this hall remember a time when the area of health care of our citizens was highly developed and, according to the standards achieved in the field of health, we set a positive example in this part of Europe. Unfortunately, in the decades behind us and in this area, as well as in many others, we have made a drastic lag and it takes a lot of time and goodwill to achieve European standards in this country. In addition to the expansion of economic development, which is a presumption of greater budgetary allocations for all beneficiaries of budgetary resources, including for this, it is necessary to bring legal regulation into line with European standards, to provide normative assumptions for better and more efficient organisation of public health protection. In this sense, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for today's session, is intended to provide conditions for better meeting the uninterrupted growing needs of our citizens in the use of healthcare. Amendments and additions to the existing Health Protection Act provide for the availability of health care for all citizens in RS territory, in particular by organising the supplementary work of healthcare professionals, health associates and other persons employed in health institutions or in private practice. The proposed solutions amending or supplementing existing legal provisions allow for the performance of certain health services of persons employed in health institutions or private practice, regardless of where these persons have concluded a full-time contract. Patients are offered a wider choice of both healthcare professionals and healthcare associates, i.e. other persons employed in health institutions and private practice, and who make up a team carrying out additional work. These persons will be provided with appropriate types of health care or adequate healthcare. In this way, conditions will be created for the engagement of more employees of healthcare professionals, health associates and other persons employed in health institutions and private practice. The new legislative solutions will create positive effects to ensure the necessary staff, i.e. staff with appropriate specialisations and necessary specialisations that are not available in sufficient numbers in each area of the Republic of Serbia. These issues will be resolved on the basis of a supplemental work contract, which will provide work in a particular health institution or private practice, in which there is a need for such employment, providing health care to patients. It should be noted that the Proposer has proposed that the National Assembly adopt this law by emergency procedure in order to prevent the possible occurrence of adverse consequences under the health care system. In addition to the constitutional basis, which is contained in Article 99(1), point 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in its jurisdiction gives the National Assembly other general acts, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which provides, among other things, for the National Assembly to make decisions, a legal basis for the adoption of a health care plan for the Republic of Serbia, is contained in the Health Protection Act. This law provides for a plan to develop health care at the level of the Republic of Serbia, to ensure and implement social care for health, and to adopt the plan by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Starting with the fact that healthy citizens are the cornerstone of every country's development, because only if healthy people can contribute to the social, economic and any other development of society, in the planning of state health care, can this area not be seen as consumption. The planning of public health protection must be treated as an investment in the achievement of overall social development. In this sense, this proposed document is professionally and politically directing the development of the health system in line with the overall development of Serbian society. It defines the basic objectives and directions of developing health care in the Republic. The plan is also based on the general social importance that has the health of the population and on the need for the representatives of society to be defined according to the objectives and measures of health care. This document is based on an analysis of the health status of the population, on the needs of this type of protection and is based on available human, financial and other options. It contains instruments for further development of the healthcare system and presents changes that should mark the health system in the coming period. These changes will open perspectives to strike a balance between efficiency and quality of healthcare and contribute to improving healthcare at all levels of the system. In doing so, they respect the circumstances related to social and demographic movements, the level of educational and cultural achievements and the health status of the population. The proposed location plan and a number of other factors that can affect the sustainable development of health care in the Republic of Serbia. It should be pointed out that this plan is also based on the already adopted strategies and programmes brought by the Government in this area and that it is an integral part of all the programmes of measures and activities necessary for the sustainable development of our country. With a number of measures and activities to be carried out by the healthcare service and other services outside the health care system, the main objective of the plan ahead is to preserve, improve the health of the population, extend the human century and improve the quality of life of people in our country. I want to remind you of the fact that there have been significant changes in the health of the population in our country over the past decades. These changes are seen in the demographic area, starting with an ageing population, urbanisation, human migration in the area of socio-economic relations, to environmental changes in the environment. As a result of such changes, chronic non-infectious diseases are dominated by major public health significance. These diseases are increasingly burdening health care in general. Nevertheless, great progress has been made in raising the level of knowledge of health and disease in our population. A knowledge threshold has been raised in the field of information and in the area of availability of information, and the health care system has better technical and technological opportunities. All these changes were followed by changes in the organisation of health services in RS. However, the challenges faced by both individuals and our society in general have imperatived the need to continuously seek and find the best possible solutions to ensure the preservation and improvement of the health of the entire community, as it is not necessary to repeat that a healthy community is a fundamental assumption of the prosperity of the development of society and of the country in general. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, starting from the always present contradictions related to health care, on the one hand, the public rightfully calls for constitutional and fundamental, human and moral, ethical right to timely and quality health care, and on the other hand, health care is increasingly expensive, the need to define a public and clear strategy to regulate the development of this area is imposed. In this context, this proposed plan is based on achieving the objectives, implementing the new activities that should contribute to the better health of the population in our Republic. In the voting day, the SPS-JS will support the proposals of these acts and I am confident that through the debate at the National Assembly of the RS, we will make the proposed text even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45334	I give my word to Member Sima Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45335	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I will refer to the document called – The Health Protection Development Plan for most of my discussion. It is, in fact, one of the documents that is important in terms of what the system laws are related to health care and health insurance. As the promoter said, the text is about professional but also political document. This document, given that it will target health care development over a longer period, certainly concerns each citizen of Serbia individually. It seems to me that this is also a good time to look back at what was done in the previous period, what is today's moment so that we can talk seriously and analytically about the validity of the priorities set out in this plan. Today, we have debaters, and we have what is a characteristic of numerous disputes, controversy, attacks that are permanently exposed to the health care system in Serbia, and most notably to the Ministry of Health. I believe that no resolution has been under so much pressure from lobbyist groups, private interests, political manipulations, such as the health resort, and also this same portfolio is constantly facing semi-information, layical views on the functioning of the health system, with frequent exposure to simple solutions, which are not possible in any practice by European countries. I want to take the opportunity to say that in the general public, in our population, there are two thoughts that are networked, or habits that basically have a logical mistake. One is that health care is free, which is absolutely not true. It's one of the most expensive activities in every country. The second is that for this level of money, which we are issuing today, and it is almost the smallest on the European continent, we can get a health care service that is in the world ranking and supported by the technology that is best available today for world medicine. These are facts that give birth to unrealistic expectations, and from which the dissatisfaction is easily manipulated. I think it's a good time to look back at what's been found, since it's often mentioned what's been done for the term of the Professor. Milosovic. We must say that Serbia's health system was inherited from the health system of Yugoslavia, which was far more powerful both in economic and political terms, a country that had one of the most developed health systems in Europe. Our people, experts and politicians took part in the policymaking of the then World Health Organization. We had one of the best networks of health institutions and the most developed personnel, and in the late '70s and early '80s, by technology, we were practically at the world's top. Of course, with the fate of the country, there was a collapse of the health system. He couldn't stay isolated. With the isolation of the country, the war events and everything that's been happening to us in the 1990s, that resources of the health system are constantly exhausted, so that by the end of the '90s we can come to a complete collapse. I have to remind you that what's called a health fund, a health fund, a health fund, or a Republic Health Insurance Institute, was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2000. That's what we need to talk about here. Those are the facts I'd like someone to challenge. On the other hand, due to the events themselves, there has been a change in habits and attitudes towards the country's own and foreign health. The explosion of the risk factor is not accidental. The exposure to stress has helped us to eat incorrectly, to move less. We have an epidemic of alcoholism and smoking. We should not be surprised today about the health picture of the Serbian population. What you should also point out is, what's very important, they're so-called. social and economic determinations, i.e. specifics based on which priorities are set. Our population is getting old. Of course, the factors that affect that are numerous. We're practically the oldest population in Europe. The population of young people is approaching that border where we have at least the youngest age, and that, thanks to those risk factors I mentioned, we have an epidemic of so-called epidemic. chronic non-infectious diseases. Of course, the global financial crisis has been imposed on all of this, which makes funding in the health system more difficult. These are the circumstances that this development plan has come up with. It's very important in creating all the planning documents, to respect what are real parameters. What I'm also saying is, as in what we call a moral crisis and what some theorists have called a moral suicide of this society, its recovery takes decades. So in what we've got in the health condition of the population, we're also going to have to carry out active measures long enough to get to a zero-year-old state from the '90s. Another important fact that I want to apostrophe, it's a question of human resources, or what has traditionally been said here for the last decade -- human beings. It's unemployment in health care. The current minister, Professor Milosavljevic, has been warning from 2002 on about the irrational registration policy that exists in universities and higher schools of medical professions. To illustrate this, I will tell you that from 2006 to 2010, active measures by the Ministry of Health employ 1,863 doctors and 4.125 nurses. If we stick to this figure alone, and we know that only at the Belgrade Medical Faculty each year is enrolled up to 500 students, practically, and the best active employment measures in this sector cannot support only Belgrade University. What about Novi Sad, Pristina, Kragujevac and Nis? In doing so, last year, we have a completely non-resonative establishment of the Medical Faculty at VMA, in order to speed up the problem, apparently. The responsibility of the Ministry of Health cannot be sought in that segment. It has to be a top-of-the-line policy. As far as the document itself is concerned, as the promoter has said, it has its foundations in international documents. Of course, the International Conference in Alma Ata in 1978 gave a particular commitment in which they participated, I must say again, and our experts, where the practical reaffirmation of the definition of health, mentioned by Dr Krpić, was re-affirmed. Of course, here is one of the important embedded documents and a global health strategy for all the European regions of 1984. In my view, perhaps the most important thing is that it is in the spirit of this document, and it is not mentioned in the proposal itself. It is a document that emerged from a meeting organised by the World Health Organization in 1996 in Ljubljana, where we received a document – the Ljubljana Charter, where European countries agreed on a synergistic, joint development of their health systems, which have their own postulates on which this document is based on a plan for health care development. These are: clear identification of targets in the direction of expected results, the formulation of measures in line with the real needs of the population, equal availability at all levels, and the predominant orientation of primary health care. What are the benefits of the health system today? We have a highly developed health network at the border of sustainability of health care facilities. We have a total range of professional personnel. However, because of the migration of the population and the internal problems arising from unbalanced regional development, we have an unbalanced distribution of personnel, and there is an impression in certain areas, and there is indeed a need for professional specialist and narrow specialist staff. What are defined priorities that I would focus on in this discussion, which are very important, is the establishment of one connected, as this expert document says – an integrated health system. It actually means that there must be a much better communication between, in that vertical that consists of one home of health, general hospital and clinical centre, and on the other hand, we have to accept the concept of public health, responsibility for the health of all factors in society, which is that one home of health cooperates with both the municipality or with the city administration, with religious communities and other institutions that exist in the local community. Of course, the additional quality in establishing this unique health system will be the implementation of the information system, which should be completed in about two to three years, which will allow us, first of all, to monitor a patient who is referred to several levels of health care, to monitor the quality of services, and ultimately, which is also important, to see how health money is spent. What is also set as a priority is financing health care. I have to say in this place that in 2004, stability was established in the health register, in the RZO. There are no more debts to prevent the service of health services. What there is is one debt that is accumulated year by year based on contributions and I ask all those who are not familiar with it, to get acquainted with that fact. On the basis of the contribution to the RZZO, 45 billion dinars are owed. Mr. Rangelovic, I think you should have that fact and see what we're going to do with these people who can't verify their books, because they can't pay a contribution to health insurance. On the other hand, we have something that is the natural need of the private sector, which is to fully equate in one ideal situation with state institutions, to all conclude equal agreements with the RZO and start a competition, to make it ideal in terms of conditions. However, the Ministry of Health had the intention in 2004. There was also pressure from the IMF to allow the health care law at the time. However, the estimates proved absolutely accurate because of the experiences that exist in other countries' health systems what would happen? We would have had a major outflow of professional personnel from state health institutions to private institutions. This is one thing, which would expose socially endangered parts of the population to mediocre and poor staff in state institutions and on the other hand, very quickly, such as experience with the Czech Health Fund, in six months they brought the fund to the brink of bankruptcy. I think that would be an irresponsible policy of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, a solution has been found to postpone the possibility of separate work in the private and state sectors for three years. So today, of course, my colleagues will also talk about it, we have amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, which should enable additional work and much better availability and quality of health care, on the other hand, to allow doctors to earn more in one legal and legal way. I think it is also an important priority defined in this Health Security Development Plan -- a health system management system. This is one of the serious problems facing health institutions and there is no policy of the Ministry that will be able to implement any organised plan unless you have a capable, organised and responsible management in health institutions. What happens to us in practice? Since we don't have a specialized health management staff, we often recruit doctors who are mostly outstanding in their profession, but they don't even know what a Virman is to begin with. Then for the next year, they learn how to manage a health care facility. On the other hand, they have no experience in implementing a health policy that must be unique, regardless of the sector or the territory of the Republic. In this context, I support an absolute effort to carry out an intensive training of people who would deal with health management exclusively, thus establishing rationalisation and costs, to enable a better organisation of health services on the ground. What I would also like to point out is a healthcare organisation in the coming period. Certainly, the fact that, in the last 10 years, there have been significant changes in the economic situation, that the 2011 census will certainly provide some output data that will point us to how and how best we can perform a redistribution of capacities within our health system. Whether in the bed fund, or in the number of personnel, somewhere we're going to have to cut capacity, and elsewhere they have to increase due to population increases. What's very important, given the strategic definition of this document, is that we fully define and make a functional so-called. a reference system that makes up the primary, secondary and tertiary levels. This system is absolutely something that is a model in the world and in which health homes should be guardians of the gate of that system, to safeguard consumption, to protect health money, and on the other hand, to service up to 85% of the needs of the population. That's not the case now. We have offended habits to just go for directions to the health care center to go to a higher level of health care, which wastes money irrationally. So what I think may be the most important thing in this document is the definition in the future of primary health care, and that is, above all, in a concrete sense, the promotion of health and healthy lifestyle, and on the other hand, the prevention and early detection of chronic non-infectious diseases. It's actually the only way to seriously oppose what the epidemic of these diseases is today. As the minister said, participation in the mortality of these diseases today is about 85%. Finally, there was a discussion on the Committee on Health and Family itself, and I believe it will be today. The question is - why is no fight against corruption mentioned in the health care development plan's very document? Since corruption is a visible disease of today's society and state, it certainly needs a much wider front in the fight than the individual resistor. We are all aware that Mr Cvetkovic's government, which also belongs to the Ministry of Health, has determined to fight organised crime and corruption in one of its priorities. The health ministry is actively implementing measures in this direction, and I do not see in this expert political document that there is room for promotion of active measures against corruption, which must be a government policy. Therefore, the G17 plus parliamentary group supports the decision to agree on a plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia, and thus we express our will and support for the continuation of those changes that began in 2002, by adopting a document Serbia's Health Policy. We believe that in the next period we will come to what is our common interest, which is to offer patients, citizens of Serbia, the best possible health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45336	Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic answered again. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45337	Your Honor, Madam President, I signed up for the replica, because in an apologetic approach to the Ministry of Health's defence policy, my name is mentioned in a negative context. There is no need for apologising speeches to be defended by the Minister of Health. By making a practical return to some solutions from before 2005, the minister said - people, I was wrong. If someone says - I was wrong, I wasn't doing well, there's no need for that someone to defend themselves in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45338	The People's MP, Dr. Pai Mamchilov, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we again have a united debate on two legal acts, and it is the first, as you know, a bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. I wouldn't do much with this make-up law, which wants to admit and correct the big mistakes made by the earlier Health Protection Act, at least as far as the doctor's extra work is concerned. As has already been said here, my predecessors have indicated that we practically have a 199, which, unfortunately, reintroduces chaos into the health system. See what is provided for in Article 200 of the old law, and in Article 2 of the new law – the supplemental work contract can conclude to provide health services which are not covered by compulsory health insurance in terms of content, scope and standards, or health services which are not implemented in a manner and in the procedure prescribed for the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. The question to which I seek an immediate and concrete answer, I immediately moved on to specific things – where will primary healthcare doctors and how will they achieve additional work, when the content of their work is forbidden to be achieved in addition work? So you wrote, ungrably and in two or three members and brought into a very unpleasant position the great army of primary health care doctors. What is important, you are erasing Article 277, which has practically and enabled, along with your rule, which you have subsequently brought, a great imbalance, where teachers could work additionally, and the other doctors are not and, in fact, this is what you are now returning the situation to the one that was before 2005 and you now have a situation that you have criticized fiercely, mentioning most of the current Minister Bojić. There's no different situation now this way. What's the problem with Serbian health care? Of course, the screaming corruption pointed to by foreign international organisations involved in examining the same, but also certain domestic ones. What we get in response from the Ministry of Health is that it has it as much as in other spheres of society. This is true and it is not controversial, but it is also true that the situation where health is far more complex and that from a moral point of view is more mandatory for us doctors to be considered and to engage in the fight against corruption. Your laws are recognised in the adoption, the system law on health care and on health insurance, as corruptive, which generate corruption. In what way? You have enabled waiting lists that can be skipped by payment. Furthermore, non-standard services that are now past the law that has accurately defined what may be extra-standard services are taking extra funds to Serbian citizens who are being treated in public health as well. And, of course, this conflict of interest when you allow civil servants to work in private. Now you're saying in your explanation, when a man reads the explanation, the reasons for bringing in are the growing needs of the population in the use of health care. What needs did you not say, which document you are referring to, we'd like to know. You say further, improving the quality of health care in a way that ensures a reduction of the waiting list. If we take the events in Kamenica and the chaos that currently prevailed, where capacities are not satisfactory, and human resources are practically on the extremity, how, and there we just had this supplemental work mechanism and waiting lists, then we see what your measurements actually generate. They generate chaos and inadequate treatment. We heard on the board, on the 33rd session we discussed the situation of oncology protection. Oncologists have told us that they have no capacity, no material or human resources to a sufficient extent. You'll say that before 2000 there weren't so many machines or there were, but look at the statistics on the incidence of malignant diseases and mortality, the constant increase. And then, as you often like to say, when I was a minister of what I did, thank God, I didn't do anything that seems to me to be doing a lot today, and it's about corruption, there weren't waiting lists, there was less mortality in the books that you published yourself that I own here. It's easy to prove. Now, to conclude, on the Health Committee with a close majority of MPs have accepted amendments to this law, and SRS MPs will not. Of course, I won't fall into the trap to criticize the Minister of Health, so that my poor fellow MPs must defend him, when he can't defend himself, he himself said he's out of control and he's powerless in that system of ours. In Vrsac his statement was made clear in all the media and that is probably the reality. When I appeal and criticise, I criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the prime minister, who I think is the most responsible for the situation we have in Serbia's health system. To deal with the Health Protection Development Plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2015. I usually speak from my head, usually I stand, but from the pitet to the really existing experts in the field of folk health and health policy that this country has and that I'm taught from, and because of the importance of the document itself, I'm going to allow myself to read this time, and don't blame me, I'm going to sit down. The Health Protection Act, as you know in December 2005, clearly provided for in Articles 16 and 17 for a plan to develop health care for the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for a decision on the Development Plan came to us on 30 December 2009. So, since 2005, he arrived in 2009 in December. The 27th session held a comprehensive discussion with participants from different sectors interested in health care and health policy implementation in Serbia. What needs to be pointed out is that a number of objections have arrived here, and I am now stressing the objections of the National Organisation of Persons with Disabilities of Serbia, who, as they say in the memo, are over 800,000 people and who have made precise proposals for amendments to the law. No single change to what disabled persons in the presence of health ministry representatives at the mentioned session has been suggested. That's what you call bringing a citizen into the center of the system and what you said in the program about NGOs. Of course, and the Health Club gave you objections, the SLD gave you objections, they gave you objections and private doctors and dentists. None of this, and in March we discussed it in detail, you didn't consider it. You probably have the perfect plan. Another thing is interesting, we have to discuss the motion for a decision, but the law is explicit and in its member says – the RS is making a development plan, not a development plan. Why this artificial gymnastics, I can assume, as much as I do know, in order to avoid amendment intervention and to change this document, you've figured to baptize it like this, but the law doesn't allow it. In the opening remarks, the health care development plan is a legal obligation, brought by the National Assembly, and the government brings health care programmes for its implementation. In Article 17. The Health Protection Act found that the plan is based on analysis of the health status of the population, the need for health care and available personnel, financial and other opportunities. The law at ten points determines what the plan must contain, this plan does not contain what is taxed, and I will prove it to you. A document submitted by the Ministry of Health requires that certain issues which have brought unnecessary confusion to our Members of Parliament be resolved before considering its content. I just have to say, this proposal didn't get a passing light on the Health Committee. The Health Committee did not support this document. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is no agreement of the Health Committee at the same session as the previous law. The opening part states that the proposed plan has been done with 16 international documents and is in line with them. However, the law does not provide for the harmonisation of the development plan with international documents. As a member of the World Health Organization, Serbia is obliged to bring its health development plan in line with the European region's "Health for All in the 21st Century" document, which sets out the objectives and measures of European health policy by 2020. This, for our country's binding document, is not listed at all. You've listed 16 and this binding nowhere. In the proposed document, you state that it is in line with Serbia's health policy objectives and you list seven points of these goals. The document on health policy goals and measures in Serbia has so far not been brought by the National Assembly, which would only be competent to bring it. Also mentioned is a document brought by the Serbian government at the beginning of this decade. If such a document exists, it shall not oblige the highest legislative authority of the State to coordinate the documents in its jurisdiction with it. If we go to field definition, what's planning? The process of setting targets and appropriate action flows to achieve them. And what is politics, even health care? A long-term plan laying down general guidelines for decision-making, decision-making. If so, and it is, these are the definitions of the World Health Organization, if the Assembly brings a plan, it is certainly the most qualified to bring a health policy to this country. The plan is based on multi-sector and health strategies, national programmes and activities adopted by the Serbian government and the health ministry. The law is explicit, and you have to give the answer here today why you don't respect it. The health care development plan is the basis for health care programmes, not vice versa. Here, I read to you Article 16: "To ensure and implement social care for health at the level of the Republic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brings forward a plan for the development of healthcare (hereinafter referred to as the "development plan")". In order to implement the development plan, the government brings health care programmes, and you reverse politics. We have someone you think is relevant and you write programs and strategies instead of the other way around, from this program to come up with programs and strategies. How you did it and why, I don't get it. The law provides that the health care development plan contains objectives, measures and health care activities. The proposed document says that the main objective of the plan, whose basic premises are contained in the objectives of health policy, preservation and improvement of health and sustainability of the health care system. Two things need to be cleared up here. The objectives cannot be stated in such an extremely general way from the contested health policy document as premises. The objectives in a time-limited period must be concrete and quantified and this is one of the greatest shortcomings in this document, which does not follow either European practice, nor the recommendation of the World Health Organisation, the European Office, that the objectives must be presented to the numbers within a certain period of time. If we look at the health status of the population, it has found that the health care development plan is based on health analysis and the needs of the population for health care. Instead, you called in the document the chapter - a demonstration of the current state of health care. And that lists 15 different documents. However, it was quite enough that you provided information that the Institute of Public Health "Batut" collects within its responsibilities and two health status documents from 2000 and 2006 which, if professionally valued, provide all the necessary information to develop a quality plan. What has been a fundamental problem for more than a decade, there is an increasingly pronounced threat to the biological integrity of the people. This is due to the continuing decline in birth and growth in general mortality. This ratio of birth and mortality, resulting from natural growth, is completely disregarded in the proposed document. It is particularly concerned that it is easy to go over the fact that the overall mortality rate is extremely high and is 14 per 1,000 inhabitants. The precisely high rate of general mortality is the main factor responsible for biointegrity. We're like a people who are biologically endangered, you didn't mention it anywhere. When the Finns achieved a reduction in cardiovascular mortality by 75% and malignant by 20%, the overall mortality rate was reduced by 48%. What do we see in the document? We see a finding by the Republic Bureau of Statistics that there is a continuing reduction in population. The reduction of preventive mortality caused by chronic non-infectious diseases is precisely the main obligation of health care, and nothing is said in this document of yours. I'll stop here. My colleagues will also talk about this document, and I will be obliged to analyse some more things the way we analyzed in the SRS. This health care development plan has not been prepared in accordance with Articles 16 and 17. The law. As a member of the World Health Organization, we did not honor the document "Health for All in the 21st Century". If it had been done right, instead of the countless strategies and national programmes you're offering, we'd have planned development with clear goals and measures, and now we don't. I would have stopped here in further discussion by elaborated a bunch of inadmissible shortcomings of such paper. We often travel abroad, so we visited the British Parliament, so I also have their health care plan, which adopts their parliament, to see what it looks like. It's not bad, and that's my recommendation to people who work at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45340	National MP Simo Vukovic wants a word as rapporteur of the Committee on Health and Family, as deputy chairman of the Committee. We are already during the session when the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, say, but since your right to report from the Committee is unimpeached, as well as in the case where we are, applying the Rules of Procedure, so that the right of MPs is met, in addition to the course of the session, within Article 286(2), we gave the MPs a word, in which case the MP Simo Vukovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45341	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that the Health Committee has not even stated its decision on a plan to develop health care. At the same time, some MPs attended meetings of certain working groups. Among other things, SRS MPs have left the board in such a situation, and we have lost the quorum. So these are facts related to the last session, where we had a unique search on the health care development plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45342	National MP Pai Boys, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45343	First of all, I didn't report to the board, I just found out the fact that it's important for the debate. I felt that the other MPs should be kept in mind when we consider these important documents. Secondly, your shifts have been strengthened by the Committee. Which way? You've got the fat majority of you in position. Instead of getting two new members, we only got one of the DS lines. My dear colleagues, you have comfortable space to provide whatever you want most of them. The majority existed when the first law was being discussed. The fact that you didn't provide it, don't honor us for being a minority, and at the very least we don't have to provide that quorum. Speaking of which, you insist on knocking down the quorum in three sessions and do not want to discuss vital problems related to the health of Professor Vojislav Seselj and the events in connection with this, so do not respect us that it is illegal. You, most of you, knock down the quorum and blame us for breaking down the harmony of a beautiful quorum. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45344	The word has been passed by MP Zlata Djeric, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, New Serbia considers this to be one of the most important issues at this time in Serbia and these amendments to the Health Protection Act, as well as the Health Protection Development Plan of the Republic of Serbia, so important that this could be almost a referendum issue, but we know why we do not have a referendum on some important problems in this country. We believe that a public debate is needed in the way that all citizens of Serbia should be asked, because all Serbian citizens are equally interested in the issue of public health and all Serbian citizens are equally involved in financing this area and should have the right to know more about it and to ask more about it. That is why this is unacceptable for us and New Serbia will not vote in the voting day for these two projects, but we will briefly try to explain why we are against it. First of all, it is disputed to amend the members of the Health Protection Act, in amendments to the Health Protection Act, Articles 199 to 202 of the existing law and 277 of the law, which is deleted in this proposed solution. First of all, let's figure out what the current state of law has offered that has so far been implemented. So I'm speaking from the point of view of citizens who are users of these services and who will be directly concerned with the application of this law. Thus, the current state of affairs says that the Health Protection Act was adopted at the end of 2005 and in Articles 199 to 202 defines the modes of carrying out supplementary work for employed healthcare professionals, doctors, dentists and pharmacists. The supplemental work of healthcare professionals enables out of full-time work to be carried out in health activities with its/her/her/her/her/her/her/her employer for up to one-third full-time work hours. It should be pointed out that public health workers are the only category of public sector officials and state authorities that are allowed to work additionally in the same business in the private sector, and before 2005 this possibility of work did not exist. If we were to translate that into a language that they are closer and more understanding, that would mean when we say the only category, that, say, traffic cops might come up with the idea that they're up to one third of their working hours, and as part of what their colleague just said, that they're earning something more, at the Ministry of Police, they're working, for example. On Sundays, at some crossroads or part of the highway, they charge fines for their own needs, and some of them pay to the Ministry. It would be interesting to have such an idea in public utility companies or city transport companies, that state resources can be used for sometimes and for their own purposes, because, above all, the resources that the citizens have funded, built, invested long in them from their own pockets, expecting, of course, the greatest benefit from the existence of such a system. What is controversial here, also in the transitional provisions of the Health Protection Act, Article 277 which is now deleted – a health worker employed in a full-time state institution can work additionally with a private employer for up to three years from the entry into force of the law itself, i.e. until December 2008. Now we are interested in whether a whole group of doctors has been brought into illegal work or into work that is illegal, illegal or in some way even subject to the sanctions of some other laws? What we also have to say against accepting this legal solution is the effects of art so far. 199 to 202 on the health system. What the practice has shown, it's that they're pretty negative. There has been a decline in the productivity of state institutions in regular working hours, providing patients with additional work in the private sector. We know it's done pretty deliberately. Then there was the possibility of conflicts of interest that undermines the ethics of profession and reduces quality standards, and we know how necessary it is to raise all quality standards in health and health care. Then, the growth of total health consumption, because the insurance company pays the service in addition to the mandatory contribution again in the supplemental work, again out of his pocket, which he already paid once. So we have the same doctor, same service, same fund, same insurance, and all of this is paid twice, which will be financially quite unsustainable and that undermines the social relationship or social status of the population. Fiscal discipline is being reduced because insurance companies are not motivated to pay for the contribution, since they only get the service when they pay it out of their pocket again. The conflict of interest in state health is legalised, leading to the collapse of the basic principles of solidarity, on which public health is based. A thorough violation of patients' right to available, fair and quality health care is also one of the results. We can talk about this experiment in the Czech Republic that tried something like this in 1990, but it was soon abandoned because there was tension between doctors and the price of services was controversial, and the waiting list was unthinkable. This was also rejected in Croatia because of corruption. Recently, any possibility of doing so has been abolished in Republika Srpska. In Slovenia, less than 1% of doctors can work additionally. The dual work of state doctors distances health from EU standards because of the negative effects listed. So, since December 2008, with a view to Article 277, with the approval of the director of the state institution doctors, two options have been offered: full-time and additional work in evening clinics in state institutions, where employees are already working, in which they will treat for compensation paid by the patient and the division of working hours by four hours in the state service and four now in the private sector. These are some of the elements that say that this is all very controversial and unacceptable in this way for Serbian citizens. The objections to the regulation are also numerous, from principled to technical. I'll just take some out. Given the undefined basic package of services, many services will be transferred to evening clinics where they are made for money, so-called evening clinics. There will be a new growth in the payment of citizens to state institutions. Through the evening clinic, another channel of health spending is being opened in state institutions. Contribution of the evening clinic, private sector etc. The inability to set a fair price for amortisation of state resources, which I note again, was built by citizens and funded by citizens, used for private profit. So someone is using state resources, or the resources of Serbian citizens, for their private income. How do you compensate for the damage done to insurance workers who are being treated at regular hours, etc. in the case of hacks and equipment malfunctions in the evening clinics? That's one of the important questions I'm asking as a citizen. The price list of the evening clinic, as well as the scope of the extra-standard services, determines the arbitration board and director, which opens up a space for abuse and re-urpation of state property. Evening clinics deny the need for a waiting list, since there are obviously sufficient capacities. If you can't take a place on a waiting list that suits you in a regular standard time frame, and you can when you pay within another period, that means that waiting lists are artificial and those among citizens are causing quite a bit of doubt and opening up a space for corruption and inequality before treatment is possible. The reduction of availability and justice due to unthinking of waiting lists, because they will be able to skip for money in evening clinics, the best state doctors should, we consider, really rewarding them by stalking mechanisms, not introducing the whole system into conflict of interest due to a small number of doctors. Evening clinics also prevent the employment of unemployed doctors, as instead of logically introducing another shift, which would increase the number of doctors, thus increasing the quality of services, employees will have the privilege of working in both statuses. The regulation causes divisions with state doctors, to those who will be privileged to use expensive technology for their private purposes and most of whom are left with earphones. Intrinsic competition in the private and health sectors, which finance state through tax payments, is encouraged. What is also important, the division of working hours for employees is invaluable, as it will lead to major organisational difficulties. The salaries of employees will be proportionally reduced, which will boost the productivity of the artificial waiting list and the translation of patients into private practice, i.e. the evening clinic. There is no rational interest of staffed experts in expensive technology to lose the monopoly of using division of working time. Employment of new doctors for a missing number of hours, if any, will double the situation of conflict of interest because they will now ask to work in the private sector. So a number of problems will be opened and we will see that a similar situation in other health systems and Serbian health care must end the possibility of double the work of a state doctor or at least reduce it to the extent to which European countries do so. This measure requires a change of system laws and demonopolisation, both at the level of mobilising the funds and the level of the provider's service provider, as a principle of free choice of doctors and the fact that money monitors patients. What is also unacceptable and what we found very important is that the health care development plan may be brought a little late, given that the same minister has been in the ministry for eight years and that he has not had the right to wait this long and this long delay because this plan is what the law needs to come from. So the plan should be older than the law. Such a plan certainly required a serious and public debate in which citizens and the professional public could agree on the most important things, and what is also evident and what citizens at the moment, when this social situation is, in particular, hampering this is the non-transparency of spending money in health, it is the un rationalisation of people in health. If we look at a little bit, we're very easy to treat the percentages spent in health care, and we're talking about some controversial 9.6% of the GDP that's being allocated to health care, and 1% means 300 million euros, then we need to know how much money that is. I think about 13.5 billion euros have been spent in healthcare for the last eight years, and I will agree with the minister that it should certainly be provided and provided, it is obvious that in Serbia there is a lot missing in healthcare, that Serbian healthcare must be available to the widest layers, so it is listed in the plan, for example, the lack of resources in RS, is continuously investing in the renewal and acquisition of medical equipment that we all know is together with the goal of being as high-quality, especially high-tech equipment. Based on an analysis of existing data, health institutions and private practice in RS has two devices for positron emissions tomography or five-scaner, 308 devices for magnetic resonance, 90 machines for computerized tomography, 14 linear accelerators and 75 mammographers. It's all missing. I will say about these 14 linear accelerators that Serbia needs so much more. That's what our capacities require. Unfortunately, we need it so much. That costs about 40m euros. This is less than 0.4% if we look at 13.5 billion euros invested from 2003 to 2009. I think those funds might have been found. There are really many positive things in the plan to develop healthcare. We think it's too late, we think it should be the source of a legal solution, but we think that its orientations are very wide, that they don't define concepts and problems the way they should be defined by law. Let's just say, it's unclear that the package of services, so the national health account that looked at the Bureau of Statistics' website, is just being prepared, we still don't have it. We don't have a lot of data and databases that are necessary to make the system work and modernized. I'll look at just some of the orientations you say, ministers, in the plan to develop health care for RS. For example, a fair and equal approach to health care for all citizens of Serbia for the same needs, as well as improving the health care of endangered populations, these very principles in the legal solution will reduce it. By setting up the users, the patient at the center of the healthcare system, we now believe that this only money will come to the center of health interest. The sustainability of the health system, with transparency and selective decentralisation of resources management areas and the expansion of resources and funding methods, is insufficiently taken into account in health, especially human resources, since the problems so far have been identified by the profession in Serbian health, which are deficiting and not seen, particularly radiologists, anesthesiologists, that in this field something seems to make these professions more educational, training, specialised in Serbia. Also, I have one question that I was asked to ask in front of the NGO, which is what about the national strategy of the ministry on the treatment of AIDS, which it highlighted in 2009, and the new one has not been brought in, and the global fund is paying funds to the Ministry of Health, so they are interested in why it has not been brought in today and why they have not consulted more seriously on this issue. It's also an entirely civil question of a man who's been a volunteer blood donor a hundred times. Serbia is one of the countries ahead of voluntary blood donation. He's sick now in his old days, the code is 522, the minister will know, it's a very difficult condition and when he needs a service, he needs it right away and when it can be late, but every time he talks, he's facing the counters, as he says, laminated, mummified waiting rooms and offices that cost him dearly, but he doesn't care about whether at least some, like once, category of citizens who have proven themselves to be a great humanist, selflessly helping and giving themselves, he has the right to at least when they have a hard time to be respected and when they fight for their health, respected by health in RS. It's the basic grudges we have. The colleagues have already brought out a lot of what we thought we should say, so we would not repeat ourselves, but indeed New Serbia in the voting day will not support these two projects. We think there are a lot more reasons why we should be against it than for. We are surprised by the position of the DS parliamentary group, which in earlier times has been against this solution. What happened that changed their position in support of this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45346	Three more minutes remain available as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45347	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say sitting down because I have a lot of papers and that the continuity of my presentation would have some meaning I'm forced to sit down so I can show these papers to the public of Serbia and let some of my thoughts on these two proposals have sound support. Today, we have an amendment to the Health Protection Act and we have a decision on a plan to develop health care for the RS. As for the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, the best example or beginning of my presentation is one poll that was made on RTS. So RTS is the public service of all Serbian citizens, and to one issue in 2009 citizens reacted this way. The question was: Should it be possible for citizens to be treated according to their choice by a private or state doctor with a health book in the context of compulsory health insurance? In the survey, 88.8% of Serbian citizens responded with "yes", 3.4% responded with "maybe", 3.4% responded with "no", and 5.3% with "I don't know". It's a very clear picture of what the citizens are thinking. Another survey, which was also done in the framework of the Public Service, was issues for the citizens of Serbia – where corruption was spread, in which segments of society? Serbian citizens responded the following way -- in healthcare 68.7%, political parties 64.2%, judiciary 42.5%, state top 62.2%, police 59.7%, education 47.9%. These two examples clearly show how citizens feel about the current state of the health system. The amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act raises one basic question for me, and I will repeat it because I also said it on the Health Committee. Is the system, I mean, Serbia's health system, capable of responding to the needs of the population and citizens of Serbia? If so, and we have received assurances and claims from the Minister and the Ministry's representative that the system is capable and able to work, the basic question being raised is why additional work? Why introduce supplemental work if the system is fully capable? But it also seems to me that in 2005, when this law was passed and so much has been introduced to defend the system from corruption, Article 227, which is unfortunately abolished, remains unresponsive to the question. The old law in Article 227 states: a health worker employed in a state-owned health facility, who works full-time, may also carry out certain health activities from his profession in the founders of private practice, i.e. the founder of a private health institution based on a supplemental contract and Articles 199 to 202, for a maximum period of three years from the date of entry into force of this law. In the second position of this same member, it is said that if he continues to work with the founders of private practice, i.e. the founder of a private health institution after the expiry of the deadline laid down by this law, his working relationship with a health institution in the public service shall cease. Mr. Minister, what happened from December 2008 to October 2010? How many of those doctors are out of work? We don't have that information. On the other hand, do not think that we are against private work, on the contrary, but it is incomprehensible that someone can use state resources, space and equipment bought from the money of all RS citizens, to make additional profits on this basis. It's nowhere to be found. It seems to me that such an example exists, from what I've heard, somewhere in New Zealand. Such an experiment was attempted in the Czech Republic, Croatia, Republika Srpska and when it was seen to open the door to corruption, it also gave up. It is time to see what the effects so far have been, since the adoption of the 2005 law, these Articles from 199 to 202. What can be said is the decline in productivity of state institutions in regular working hours, which determines patients for additional work in the private sector - the formation of artificial waiting lists in state institutions to direct patients to additional work in the private sector, legalising health discrimination in the public health care system for residents who cannot pay for additional work to the state doctor, the possibility of conflicts of interest undermines the ethics of profession, reducing quality, jeopardising standards, etc. The most important thing is that in this past period the growth in overall health consumption has increased. I'll list some parameters for you, Mr. Minister, and the public of Serbia must certainly know that the amount of income from their own so-called income. non-standard services in state institutions in 2005 amounted to a billion 513 million 884 thousand dinars, amounting to two billion 134 million 694 thousand in 2006, two billion 537 million and so many thousands. It just shows that the overall increase in health costs has increased. Speaking of total growth, another question arises, do we even have a precise health account? Is it true what the Republic Health Insurance Institute claims? Is it true what the Ministry of Health claims? Is it true what the World Bank claims? How is it possible that there is a difference between that and 4.5% of GDP? If we know that 1% of GDP is around 300m euros, a simple calculation multiplied by 4.5% leads to one large number. But the amendment of this law will certainly bring something. We've been working on an analysis of what changes and additions to the Health Protection Act can bring. Here a question has been asked by several colleagues, who said this about a pay phone, that there is no clearly defined package of basic services and that is correct. Mr. Minister, for nearly ten years now, it entered the tenth year as you are head of the Ministry of Health. That's exactly 10 years. It's around here somewhere, it'll be in 2011 at some point. In 2001, the issue was current and was spoken publicly at public meetings, public debates, as it was clear then that everything with such a wide package could not be covered. And after 10 years, we don't have that basic package of basic services. I'm afraid this basic package of services or one good part of that basic service package will be transferred to the evening clinic. There will be a new rise in payment of citizens to state institutions. During the evening clinic, another channel of health spending is opened in state institutions, contributions from the evening clinic, the private sector. It will not be possible to correctly assess the depreciation of the state resources used in private and private earnings. Finally, another question opens, Mr. Minister, it seems to me that evening clinics and extra work prevent what the whole government is saying in a voice, that we need to find a job for young people. Will some clinics already make it possible for young people to be employed? He won't, Mr. Minister. In the coming period, Serbia will have more and more unemployed doctors, more unemployed dentists, more unemployed pharmacists and other medical staff. It's something that's some of the most crucial things about changes and additions to the Health Protection Act. As far as the health care development plan is concerned, there are definitely a few things to say. It seems to me that this development plan, or this decision, is based on some unreal facts. Mr. Minister, let's start from the beginning, see what it is that this plan doesn't define clearly, and what is it that we dispute in this act? It came from the fact here, and it appears to me, on page 12, that the unemployment rate survey in Serbia, according to this document, is currently employed in Serbia 2,821,724. During the debate on this plan, we heard from your secretary of state that the contribution rate, i.e. the payment of the compulsory contribution to health insurance in Serbia, is quite low and that, in her words, it pays about a million and 300,000 people. There is a huge discrepancy between 2,800,000 employees and that number that pays contributions. We ask the question – what happens to other people? Why don't these contributions be paid? On the other hand, Mr. Minister, when something appears in a distorted light, and there are some other data, and I will list them, it is the Republic Bureau of Statistics that says this – the unemployment rate in Serbia for April 2008 – 13.3%; October – 14.0%, the same year 2008; April 2009 – 15.6%, October 2009 – 16.6%. Not only does it reduce that unemployment rate, but it seems to me, and it increases. Something that says writing this document didn't come from some real stuff. Different data on health care expenditure, I just said, Republic Institute 6.0%, Health Minister 8.2%, national and health care 9.6%, World Bank 10.5%, is talking about the non-transparency of spending money. The NRS MPs, when adopting the RS budget, also get a financial plan and something that is a way of spending money in the RPZO. We see these two things, one thing is that the strategic definition is like this – one third of these funds will be directed to the primary level, and two thirds go to secondary and territorial levels. We keep talking about preventive programs. You are full of mouths on the implementation of these specific programs, which is good and which is commendable, but when we look at the amounts of money that are directed to that primary level of health care, we see one major discrepancy. We're wondering when that's going to change in favor of the primary level? On page 15, Mr. Minister, that head is committed to reducing malignancies and it seems to me that it requires a much more realistic description of the situation, given the serious irregularities that exist in the work of the oncology service and what patients' rights associations point to. That's where I'd stay because a few press informations upset me. In Serbia, from day to day, the number of malignancies increases from month to month. The exact answer is why we don't have it for now. Is this perhaps the result of the operation of the "merciful angel" that sown what was their surplus, the impoverished uranium all over Serbia? Could that be the cause? If it was already some "merciful angel," why was that "merciful angel" targeting our hospitals? Mr. Minister, you know exactly what happened to Dragisa Misovic's hospital. Why did this "merciful angel" target our schools, why bridges, why trains, why buses, why residential settlements? Now that we're facing this problem, there's no such thing as a "merciful angel" anywhere. He planted what he planted, and we're dealing with these problems. The next thing, Mr. Minister, is on page 29. You are speaking and presenting the need in this plan to increase the commitment of the population to the chosen physician. Here is an opportunity to ask you another question – how many RS residents have been identified as the selected doctor? How far did this project go? In my knowledge, that hasn't gone away since the beginning. Exactly what I told you at the beginning of the speech shows what the interest of the citizens of Serbia – to choose their chosen doctor, not to have a kind of policy and state impose on them by that chosen doctor. I'm going to interrupt my presentation and I'm going to leave a little more time to comment in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45348	There is still 45 seconds left for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has an MP named Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45349	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we have not met in this House for the first time with the fact that some of the laws we have recently passed should be changed. We used to do it without voting for them exactly as they are, sometimes out of the revolution, because our advice, our proposal, at a time when basic laws were passed, you didn't respect the facts, and sometimes I don't think those solutions are comprehensive. We are somewhere in between when this bill is proposed, because indeed everyone remembers it alive, there are plenty of MPs who were current in 2005 when the basic law was passed and when we clearly pointed out the consequences of the insufficiently defined position of the private sector in health. Of course, to many other bad traits, to the comprehensiveness of health care, some will still be left without the right and the ability to heal without paying for it, and then we have made a great number of objections to this law. Today we are witnessing that he is trying these changes, which have been proposed to us for adoption, that some of these irregularities are correcting. We are not sure, although it is true here, that one broader diapason of doctors or health workers or even a team, so workers and associates and other personnel going on, is very important that the team that will participate, as a legal category, is able to work practically in the state and private, and that different combinations of state and private and state-state-private and private-private state-private, appear to be possible, according to this allied or/or/or/or, and beyond that, there is certainly one rational probably, I expect, rational idea of the minister that, in an explanation, it will reduce the waiting list and thus increase the number of services done. Of course, the question is whether it will go so smoothly and whether there will be no source of new problems again. The possibility that prominent experts are engaged with each other, I guess that's what this is about, that those who are old, alone, of course, teachers, as previously possible, people in college, etc., rather than really prominent experts, regardless of academic calling. If, for example, they come from the private sector and another segment, some other health care institutions in another health care facility in the state sector will be accepted and completed, since the concept of a contract is clearly insufficiently binding on them to work that is accepted and done. We are aware that the existing solution, that the accumulated waiting lists of patients for surgery, primarily cardiosurgery, orthopaedic, are long awaited in oncosurgery on the lines. We need to do something, not only because it's not okay, it's in place, it's not useful for the state to be the main promoter of sending its citizens to meet the health needs of other countries. Of course, on exceptional occasions it has to be done, but to be a routine job, it's really not right. Is this how if someone from another state hospital goes to a state hospital to make a deal that 30% of him and his team are working, say, cardiosurgery and oncology, when this job is done and they come home, they're going to leave the patients in care of the parent institution, and how in that organization of those who are pulling the basic job, on some basis they didn't make a contract and they didn't just get the approval of the director or counsel, etc., they should continue to follow that patient? Whether the teams are visiting, by means of a binding contract, that, exactly as possible, a certain amount of work, a certain type of business, all in the contract should be specified. Is that even possible to predict in acute and cardiosurgery? How long will the surgery take? How many surgeries can he perform? How long will he be present at the facility in which he went to work under an extra labor contract? These are some of the misunderstandings that we have tried to amend the contract may be repaired and forced in sublegal acts by a minister who prescribes it to pay attention to that detail. We're not sure when it comes to a reduction, if we assume that this will all come to life so well, the number of those on the waiting list who are now going to get a chance to get in line. Like right now, they are offered a variant of a state-owned institution, a private-owned health institution, a state-owned health institution in which someone from the private sector comes. Let's just say, when there's no work there, he can work at a health care facility in the state sector. Will patients have that right to choose? Have we violated the basic principle, the right to choose? Will they be punished? Will something happen to him if he refuses order when he's offered to go back to the beginning of the list? Generally, the introduction of the waiting list was a huge problem in the health system. What I'm about to say now concerns the work of this second draft, this decision-making plan. Because during your term of office, there was simply not enough attention to the potential void in the sophisticated expertise of a specialist doctor. In some clinical centres, this is about academic careers, so much is considered, but in many schools of medical professions, a large hiatus, a large void, when teachers leave behind even now valid conditions in retirement, a large gap in which some middle calling, a percentage is becoming less and less extraordinary professors, assistants at the pier, and under very rigid criteria as prescribed by the Ministry of Higher Education. The conditions of becoming a regular professor today or an extraordinary professor are really very difficult. It's very difficult to come up with the necessary assumptions and we kind of have passed a law that will make it impossible for us to do something for ourselves. We weren't in debt maybe, I'm going to go to another area now, to hold the number of quotes and the rest in the index that stands, but anyway. We failed to create a sufficient number of high-level personnel, even if those in those four clinical centres were for the needs of the medical profession of the academic career, because at the same time, it is assumed, and the highest quality perpetrators of the job. That's one side. The other side is a routine loss of specialization. Now they're saying eight, nine years, it doesn't matter how much, but you're almost sealing the Ministry. It's kind of good and it's recognizable when people want to address dissatisfaction, it's hard to say that addresses to the institution, addresses to the minister. When MPs want to speak, they already distinguish that something is an institution, that the minister is something else. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't belong to a group of people who thought the minister was supposed to resign for every stupidity made by a health director when someone stole something, when someone did something, it would be too big playing the system. So we've been looking at it more seriously, but the minister should have a responsibility when it comes to systemic indetermination. One of these concerns is the proposal for a decision because this gap, this hiatus in the specializations of high-level personnel, which quite doubtless, dozens of examples of practice are confirmed, appeared as a problem, solved with expressness, and today, unfortunately, it seems, in pre-election terms, when doctors appeared, and even today at clinics they come to work and say – I come, I work. So, the competition institution has been devalued long ago, and now it gives the director the right that when someone turns the phone like that and takes it. Thus, unscheduled competitions for doctors specialising in clinical doctors, nurses, the mass of memos we received from Belgrade institutions where these competitions, pre-set and placed, those who were per member, are actually received in a permanent working relationship, and those who need to come and open a new job do not open it. The policy of reception, the policy of education, education is not resolved until the end, although in this proposal the decision on the strategy stands as one of the important problems, although the mass of such ideas, the mass of such intentions of the ministry to do so is simply as a copy-paisy, prescribed from segment to segment, and it almost acts as one average seminar work, I will not insult, perhaps this is written by Victoria Cucic herself, I don't know, but in my own head, this proposal does not bear in some segments sufficiently binding, sufficiently serious message to those who look at Serbian health in the next period. When it comes to this amendment to the law, there's been a lot of it. Some of the problems that can potentially be opened after its application I think we'll be solving new changes to the law if this comes to life. It's a good thing most doctors can get a chance to work, but it's just not good if that's why someone won't get a chance to start a special. Mostly I don't run around the sites too much to watch, whether it's a flaw or not, but looking at this opportunity, looking for other solutions, some other regulations and regulations that the Ministry made, I saw that it was the last specialisation contest in 2007, if I wasn't wrong. Is that a periodical now? There may really be times when people are sent to specials. I'm passing you fresh information from a recent gathering, the first Congress of Nephrologists, in which besides the profession that was well-oiled on the side, there was indeed a world on the side. They gave us things we knew and didn't know about. Some people get paid well and it's a question of this, some people get paid nothing. We've had lectures on invitations, for free, for reputation, but good. I can see that there is something particularly unsettling about it, and some of Serbia have been very well at the meeting. Well, that's not why I'm saying it. I'm talking about the "by the way of the story" that I want to mention because it's about the part that we're going to talk about here in this because it's a little accentuated, in just a few sentences, but in this second one, let's say that I'm approached by doctors from the interior where some dialysis works "incompetent". There would be nothing uglier if he found that they were incompetent because they live there and treat patients, as well as in centres where there are seven-eight nephrologists without a nephrologist. There are a large number of young people who have baked the trade as secondarys, they have no specialization. They seek political ties, speak even by name and last name, and that seems to be their only hope, which is high intellectuals, it's the cream society, the cream that must have then voted neither the SNS nor the opposition. They told all of us, there are plenty of them in Serbia, and they're willing to even send a memo to send. Why? What kind of plan and human-enrichment program, available to human resources, can't humans, at least in the first step, those who spent so much as seconds in their hospitals or clinics, get specialization to do their job qualifiedly. I'm still holding on to my conviction, so deny me, maybe it's not true, that it might be the cheapest way to perfect a specialization. He works at the clinic where he learns, contributes to the effects of the clinic, from it he gets paid from his institution, you know how much he is and how much he is in health care, and returns as a finished specialist and can only benefit from it. At all, in the structure of the frame you showed, 70 percent are specialists. Some critical branches, cardiosurgery, cardiology, endocrinology, oncology, oncology, oncology are really in our great deficit, and that's something that lasts, it hasn't hit us. Imagine being struck by a flu that didn't happen to us, fortunately this pandemic missed us. So, about this, this suspicion of the system, as I said, is going to be created if things don't work out faster, so let's start from this report. I really read it carefully and I have no objection to demographic statistics, it is what it is, we are aware that negative growth is significant, that health like other segments of society has a place where it can be asked, to be referenced, not only when it comes to out-of-body fertilization, in stimulating it, but also more investment in prevention. But when I get to the discussion, I show you a piece of paper on the spot what a nurse needs to do in one home of health, how many notebooks a day she has to open and what a doctor has to do in several responsibilities divided into prevention, curatives, etc., and that all of that records, it's going to be that half of their working time will go through in various writings, possibly according to the system of current appointments. It seems to me to be a napkin, but the idea is that in a system of such appointments you get 30 scheduled patients and 10 emergency patients, you're going to have a problem, and that's the problem of the organization, and this paper was supposed to solve that kind of thing. There's been a long history of massive non-infectious diseases. I was in a federal-level institution myself at the time, and then I expected and asked the authorities then, participating as part of the government at the time, why not advertise with the white book, but it was too early, because little could be known what NATO had done and what consequences we have since 1999. It was just the beginning, but the basic information could then be in the unique system of data that in the federal health ministry and that it started from that, to see the difference now, it's de facto quite logical and necessary to have, and the epidemiological data that is here, demographic data about the plan and the capacity of the network I assume are relatively accurate, because they date back to the end of December of last year. According to some data, something doesn't fit the license number and the number of doctors, and the number of doctors according to the network plan, and there's a difference of about 8,000. With more careful reading, we might see, but generally we do not have enough doctors, as much as the EU or the developed part of the EU has to the 100,000 inhabitants. The relation of specialists and these others, of course, we don't need to talk, we don't have nurses enough, the 100,000 inhabitants of 200 sisters are less, so much is missing. And what he's got, I'm in something personal witness, I'm working on a clinical ward where nurses are over-occupied with paperwork. Is it necessary for the fund to show up in the current way of funding, to that extent, if half the tablet falls on the floor, that the sister has to find a clue and write it down? To this extent is the momentous information, the minutely notebooks that they have to run, so many calendars, so many papers, so many employers, that really the patient comes under the be, we want to believe or not. The more you get back into practice, the more I slow down, the more I get back, the more I keep in touch, the more I see it, the more I see it's not coming back to life in practice. It's not such an ideal imagined concept, so much paperwork responsibility, so many paper advantages over working with a patient, and there's a lot of talk about some kind of prevention, about that path, but I guess I'll have time to tell you that too. Here information is given where the amazing data is and thank you, for some information a man would have to struggle to search, somewhere 5,000 forms of private practice there are, various pharmacies, private offices of general practice, even clinics, hospitals, etc. It's probably a resource that draws the possibility that someone will engage to help the state in Article 2(2) solve the accumulated issues from the ranking list. We don't see the effects of that. We know that private practice, that private healthcare wasn't too much of a rush to make deals with the fund, afraid of accounts, fiscal cash registers. We know that many pharmacies have also not concluded, although they have the possibility. We also don't see the effect, and we can't ignore it, as many health workers as they do, as far as their effect, as seriously can be counted on, what is the structure of not talking, how many people are retired, who continue to work and how vitally they would be able to help the current amendments to the law to be included. The use of existing primary care services is 8.3% per capita and when a person looks at it by the number of charts, the number of examinations, in some less developed places, the number of doctors is far smaller, which happens in reality. This is the statistic behind which someone has to stand, it's just impossible to get into the business of those preventers, these hygienic institutions, as we call them popularly, they really get everything chewed up, everything on the plate, and they just have to process it and send it and they're much better paid than the clinicians. They have a lot of studies, projects, it's a story that's always a drink, because everybody invests in prevention, but that's how it is. Improving the health of infants, young children, school children and youth; now there is a list of activities, and, of course, that is a story that must be said, the evaluation of the national programme, but what I would like to remind you at this time, we are very often witnessing TV shows, press ads, newspaper calls to help those kids out of surgery. We have budgets that are for operations, and we have never officially heard how many kids have to do it in such a way, ugly, difficult way that they call out, send out, and after experience with Rebrac, who dares to send them over the cell phone and make personal payments, because he doesn't know what he's going into. This segment of treatment abroad, especially children, may be present in this programme in several places, because general stories are being touched, but it's a pretty painful picture. Maybe they're conditions where there's really no help abroad, and no one's able to say it, and your parents are struggling and looking for help. Integrated health care; I have no impression that it should be, because this is an existing system, this was similar before, it was supposed to give some indications of integration, but I'm afraid that legal changes where we gave right to local self-government to take care of primary protection, and all of its less paying ability to do so will lead us to a breakdown. When we talk about the network plan, I have it here, look at how many percent of the Jagodin County, the Pomorava County, and as much as there is a Shumadian, you can see that Kragujevac, Jagodina, Mupria have about the same number of beds. This is the therapeutic level, and this is the secondary level. Is it possible that, as such, such as Kragujevac, from Pazar and beyond, is it possible that such a city does not need a city hospital and that according to the current structure, the town of Kragujevac can afford a hospital, because I believe that some minor procedures can be done, but in the plan of the network as we see them, we have not encountered such a thing. Probably had to do something with this act. There is a lot of talk about prevention activities, promotions, health promotions, etc. This is sometimes a bit vulgar to say – promotion of health, whether there is a person in Serbia to be told – try to do everything to be healthy. Now maybe it's not clear to him and he can say, you know, smoking is harmful, and as a passionate smoker, I don't know how I'm gonna manage it, because the minister came along and all the ashtrays were closing down. I guess I know it's harmful, but it's a habit rooted. As we were taught in 2000, don't spit on the floor, don't throw banana bark at the hall, don't overdo it. You know why? Now these doctors who go to different health homes, local communities, 10 or 12 people are gathered, politically persuaded to come, and now someone will come and tell them, you have to wash your hands or don't smoke when your children are here. Well, who doesn't know that yet. Once again, some resources are being drained and an agenda of activity is being filled that we do not know how meaningful it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45350	Are any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 96(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a principled single search for a written word, and with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of LDPs, the DS parliamentary group, Forward Serbia, G 17 plus, the SRS and the ZES parliamentary group. Before we move on to the discussion in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search, and on the basis of Articles 90, paragraph 2 and 87, I would like to inform you that the usual break for today will be set from 14.00 to 15.00 hours, and that we will be working today after 18.00 hours, with the debate that will be the subject of our work. The first to be declared is MP of the people, Sheriff Hamzagic, and after that, MP Dusanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45351	The Honorable President-in-Office, Honorable Ministers, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, create adequate conditions for meeting the growing needs of our population for health care, with the availability of health care throughout the territory of our Republic, through the engagement of health workers, health associates and other persons employed in health institutions and in private practice, through supplementary work, regardless of whether they are employed in health institutions or in private practice and where they have full time. There are more significant reasons to pass this law. However, I'd like to give you three reasons. The first reason is to introduce a new quality in healthcare through supplemental work, in a way to shorten waiting lists, i.e. to shorten the past period until the moment of providing health care to patients. Another reason is that patients are allowed, through supplemental work, to choose from a wider range of professional staff that they would finance from personal resources. The third reason is that in certain areas of our territory, where there are no high-level personnel, specialists, they hire colleagues to coordinate in those areas. This law regulates that, with any employer, health workers, health associates, or other persons, or in private practice, they may be hired up to a third of their working hours. This law regulates and which services can be provided through supplementary work. He'd single them out in three groups. The first group includes those services not covered by compulsory health insurance. The second group includes those services covered by compulsory health insurance, however, no expertise can be provided for such services. The third group of services are those services provided to patients who do not have compulsory health insurance or other types of insurance. This law regulates the signing of a contract, in writing, between an employer, a healthcare worker, a health associate and another person employed in a health institution or private practice, which precisely defines the type of service, the way in which the service is provided, the amount of compensation and the duration of the additional work. The law regulates that information on services provided through supplementary work to patients, on the price of services and healthcare professionals or healthcare professionals who provide medical services to patients must be pointed out in a visible place in health institutions or in private practice. This law regulates that the service charged must be issued, on specially done paper, on the patient's account or must be forwarded to the insurance company for the service provided. The important difference between the existing, applicable law and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is that there is no longer a need to seek consent from the Head, i.e. the Director or the Professional Council, but according to his/her opinion, a healthcare professional, a health associate or another person employed in a health institution may be employed either by his/her employer, through supplementary work or in private practice. This resulted in a significant number, about 400 high-level personnel, leaving medical institutions and working in private practice. Amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act would also allow these high-level personnel to be engaged through additional work for work in health institutions and private practice. The law is in the spirit of European laws and is for the benefit of both patients and healthcare professionals, health associates and other persons employed in health institutions. I will not discuss the health care development plan in Serbia in detail, as my colleague Simo Vukovic has already talked about it. I'll just say that he's the continuity of the work of the Ministry of Health and Health in recent years. We, health workers, doctors, and patients, have witnessed in the near past what homes of health, hospitals, and even clinical centres looked like. They looked like abandoned hangars. We remember that patients were buying certain drugs at the market, because they weren't in the pharmacy, they weren't in the health care facilities, there weren't any X-rays, they were cold radiators in winter conditions, they were broken scanners, there weren't enough color-dopplers, the poor condition was in health. However, it now looks like a distant past, quickly forgotten. The truth is, it's not an ideal situation now either. However, the truth is that in many developed societies, in far richer countries or patients, health workers are never satisfied, simply because of the specificity of health care. Both acts are in the spirit of European health care laws and, I say, there is one big newspaper and a new quality in this activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45352	Six minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word has a letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a decision on a plan for the development of health care, which you presented, comes from the programmes and strategies before the Assembly adopted it. The plan is undefined, general and without clear deadlines for its implementation, and has also not received any support from the Health and Family Committee. At the beginning of the proposal for a decision on the plan, the Government gives us an overview of the current state of health of the population. This presents statistics on the population, in terms of demographic opportunities. Unfortunately, the demographic image is devastating, the mortality rate is higher than the rate of life and this relationship is 14.9.4 thousand inhabitants, which is more than in some undeveloped countries of the world. That rate, in addition to the socio-economic conditions that you state in this proposal for a decision, is also affected by the functioning of the health service. That's right. It is clear to all that the unemployment rate is increasing, that the standard of the population is highly compromised. Even those rare lucky ones who have a job like that, they spend most of their profits on food. In the largest number of people, it goes up to 85%, followed by other singles, while according to the population consumption survey, only 4% is allocated to health care, which is a minimum of those of their own. What does this tell us? Certainly not that the population is covered by full free health care, but that in Serbia a large number of people do not go to the doctor because there is no money for treatment. After all, it was written in a "white book" and written by the Council of Foreign Investors of the World Bank. In the report, they say 45% of people in Serbia do not have money to treat. In addition, there is a discrepancy between the allocation to finance health care from GDP and the state of health. The greater the isolation, the lower the number of medical services. This separation, according to the World Bank, is 10.5% of GDP. The Republic Health Insurance Institute says 6%, the health minister says 8.2% and the national health account 9.6%. How to interpret this, except to read numbers to mask where health money goes. One of the main reasons why it is so lies in systemic corruption which is the most painful in health care. A large part of the money is poured out in the staged tenders in the purchase of highly sophisticated equipment, which was a lot of writing in the press, then, in tenders about reconstruction of homes of health, hospitals and so on, and so on, until the additional work of privileged doctors etc. You say the health status of the population – they have influenced, in addition to ageing the population, and negative socio-economic movements in the last decade. The health potential of the nation has been exhausted, which is why in the time of socio-economic recovery, but with all the difficulties that the transition of state and society brings, it cannot expect a quick stop to negative health indicators and their desired improvement. If the health potential of the then population is exhausted, whatever it means in your dictionary, now in the first decade of the 21st century it has completely collapsed, counting ten new generations in this century, along with the collapse of the state, economy and all the institutions of society. Of course, it cannot be expected to quickly stop negative health indicators and their desired improvement, but the government's gentlemen, given all the resources that are dedicated to the Health Fund, which are budget, donations and loans, in the past decade in some sectors, the result is insignificant, and there is no speech on real health reforms, as the Council of Foreign Bank investors in the White Paper says. The reform in the attempt to carry out over the last ten years is about firing, reducing the number of employees, amending the Health Care Act, where an increasing number of costs are being put on the back of patients, because 45% of people do not go to a doctor when they are sick, to increase the number of patients per doctor, so the doctor spends more time in managing administrative affairs than is committed to the patient, which is particularly expressed in primary health care. The World Bank's report, September 2009, entitled "How to Do More With Less", states that the basic problem of Serbian health is inefficient primary health care and that the home of health as an organisational concept no longer exists in Europe. In Serbia, there is an increase in chronic non-infectious disease and above all in heart and blood vessels, about 55% and then malignant tumours 20%, for which increased responsibility is borne by both Western countries, members of the NATO Pact, who have committed reckless aggression to space and the population of the Republic of Serbia. You didn't condemn those criminals, you already expressed your condolences to victims who meant nothing to them. When there is no condemnation of NATO's pact, compassion is unnecessary and poetry. In addition to NATO bombs, the mortality of malignant tumours can also be placed in the context of criminal affairs and inhumanely greedy relations between individual doctors, unfortunately the head of oncology institutes in Belgrade and Sremska Kamenica, who have formed waiting lists for patients for air therapy, some of whom died after months of waiting on lists without awaiting a call for treatment. As for the structure of personnel in the health net, to the most extent, it is inadequate at the level of the entire country. We still have a high percentage of administrative technical staff in healthcare, more than 27%, while at the same time over 3,000 unemployed doctors, dentists, pharmacists and other mid-medical staff of health care professionals. In addition to this, chronically poor territorial coverage of primary health care is also taking place. Here, first of all, I mean the rural population in mountainous areas, which is classified as second-class citizens in relation to the city, as regards the possibility of reaching doctors of general practice, dentists or pharmacies. The plan states that your health care priorities are the preservation and improvement of the health of the population and the organisation of the functioning of health care. These are of course priorities in all health systems, general principles and objectives. What's tuna? Prevention and control of non-infectious diseases through early detection, evaluation of prevention programmes, control of cardiovascular, malignant and metabolic diseases, prevention and control of infectious diseases, protection of vulnerabilities through activities in the implementation of national strategies are ambitious projects for which period and which means it is possible to implement, as budget funds are reduced each year. They're the ones that are meant for health care. This looks like a nice and fairy tale literary composition. Furthermore, in the part where you talk about priorities in the field of health care functions, among other things, you say that the objectives are 80% of the needs and demands for health care in primary health care institutions, such as in developed healthcare systems, through various activities of improving the knowledge of medical staff, improving health technologies, home treatment, etc., by increasing the population's commitment to the chosen physician, which I agree with. The funds so far allocated for this purpose from the budget are not sufficient, as this ratio is 40:60% to the damage of primary health care. Why can't he choose a doctor in the entire territory of the Serbian state? I'm also thinking about private practice. Citizens have the right to be treated wherever they want. The same package of basic health services is valid or should apply throughout Serbia's territory, and possibly travel costs for such an election should be borne by insurance companies. You have not even defined what is part of the basic package of health services, except that you have written that these are services provided by the means of compulsory health insurance, which are provided to every patient, insurance company, with which each insurance company must be informed. And here the private sector has been neglected. He's only formally equal to the state, and basically there's no integration into the health care system. In addition to only the declarative equalisation of the state and private sector, everything else is discrimination of the private sector in each respect, starting with meeting the conditions for space, then the inability to provide complete services for which they are professional, to the fiscalisation from which the state sector is excluded. The state monopoly is being held at all costs. Health money flows must be controlled from one center. In the part of the draft law on improving the partnership relations between the state and the private sector, you speak in general - cooperation in the interest and the well-being of healthcare users, etc., all phrases themselves, and nowhere can be explained how to implement this. As for human resources in the health system, as you have offended the proposal, as if it were some sort of stock in the warehouse, with the bar codes stuck, and not the people with your own identity, related to the accreditation of the education programme, it should be the responsibility of the health council and the health care workers' chambers, which I find unacceptable, since only one body can be responsible for that. The health care workers' chambers are not up to the task, given the numerous irregularities in their work, corruption and party feudalization. The financing of healthcare, you say in this proposal for a plan, rests on mandatory health insurance, which should be kept on the existing model. The model has been taken over from communism and has been clashed with the free market, free choice of insurance companies and competition from insurance companies. Voluntary health insurance is mentioned in a slow way, as something that will be further developed. This loses its meaning, given the maintenance of the state monopoly under the quasi-pularism insurance system, and is held by the state monopoly. As a result, in the procedure we have amendments to the Health Care Act relating to the additional activity of doctors in public health. These changes are one way to correct one injustice, which we pointed to when we passed this law, but it establishes another. Nothing qualitative changes with regard to the rights of patients, because they will finance from their own pockets of services provided by doctors in addition work. In this way, citizens pay extra, although they stand out for compulsory health insurance. Thus, 300,000 euros are additionally taken from citizens' pockets for health services, and therefore there is no defined package of basic services, but only lists of extra-standard services. Additional work is contrary to European legislation and has also been abolished in countries in the environment. If the state sector cannot enable existing capacities and personnel to provide citizens with adequate health care, because it was also the reason for these changes to be made in the existing law, why not include the private sector to remove this deficit, under the same conditions under which it is being handled in the state? The answer to this question is not in this proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, but it is clear that this is how conflicts of interest are legalised. In addition to the "Picent in the Centre of the System", these changes only impose higher treatment costs that further distance them from access to health services. The right to treatment falls under fundamental human rights, no matter what status it currently has. This is the right of both detainees and convicteds, as well as a man on the loose, unless you are a political opponent of the regime in Serbia. Evidence for my claim is confirmed daily in the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj, a Serbian citizen. Dr. Seselj has confidence in Serbian doctors, unlike the health minister, who goes abroad for routine intervention. Because he has confidence in our doctors, Vojislav Seselj invited Dr. Zdravko Mijailovic with VMA to conduct a consultation of his health. However, contrary to all international norms, acts and conventions in which you swear, the authorities did not allow doctors to go to the detention unit in The Hague, justifying some formal reasons. By failing to help Dr Seselj, the government helps those who would remove him from the political and life scene before releasing and returning to Serbia, according to a famous order so-called. First Prime Minister of Democratic - take him away, don't bring him back. However, there are people and organisations in the world who have shown interest and concern for his health and his rights and who have set an example of how to treat our authority with regard to their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45354	14 minutes of MP time was used. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Krasic. Before I give my word to the People's Parliament, to avoid confusion, notification by article 87, work and after 1800 hours only refers to the principle debate of these two points. So, by the end of that debate, there is no turning to the next item on the agenda. National MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, as well as a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop the health care of the Republic of Serbia since 2010 and 2015. Unfortunately, these two important documents in the field of health will be discussed within the framework of a joint joint joint discussion, as usual, as is the case when health care laws are discussed. At the beginning of my debate, I will refer to a few things you mentioned in your argument. Unfortunately, the minister isn't here, so I can't speak to him. By promoting amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, Mr. Minister said the bill is good because it creates conditions for meeting the growing needs of the population in the use of health care, the organisation of complementary work by healthcare professionals, health associates, as well as other persons employed in health institutions and private practice. The amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act will allow healthcare professionals to work additionally in a health institution, i.e. private practice outside regular working hours up to one third full-time, with the aim of ensuring that all healthcare professionals are even. Mr. Minister then stated that these changes are complemented by the function of providing conditions for improving the quality of health care in such a way as to ensure a reduction of the waiting list, i.e. a reduction of the time period that elapses from the time of providing appropriate healthcare services to patients. This isn't the first time Mr. Secretary hasn't been in the meeting, so we're really sorry we can't ask him any questions. I wanted to ask him if he agreed with the finding that the principle for which he took a mid-session here was contrary to the measures he took in December 2008 in relation to the additional work of the doctor, but unfortunately this issue will remain unanswered. A year ago, the Minister of Health praised the reorganisation of state health institutions, which included the reorganisation of working hours of permanent workers in those institutions. The SRS and its MPs believe that the health minister thus confuses Serbian citizens again. Perhaps until the end someone will pass on to him and answer the question of what is true, is what he said a year and a half ago here in this respectable home or what he's saying today? In a public promotion of the national programme "Serbia Against Cancer", it is clear that due to insufficient capacity and waiting lists, a large number of patients with malignant diseases are dying without waiting for treatment to begin. The Serbian Health Services Users' Association "Health" cited in several letters to the Assembly Committee on Health and Family, among other things, - although it has insufficient capacity to treat its patients suffering from malignancies, the state of Serbia has rented part of its capacities to foreign insurance companies at the expense of treating its own citizens. An affair at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica, which was referred to by the Health and Family Committee, has been skillfully pushed under the carpet. In Kamenica, domestic patients became second-class patients, left to wait for the so-called. waiting lists, while before them on a regular basis, according to a contract with foreign insurance companies, foreign insurance companies have the advantage, and ours if they have money or luck to survive. The media first pointed to this, then the doctors from Kamenica, and then the patients. A number of information has appeared in the media regarding the treatment of malignancies at the Institute in Kamenica. To this, Mr. Minister said on 13 October 2009, "Some hospitals have scheduled patients from abroad at work and in accelerated procedures. It's about high-priced interventions or treatments, and that's what brought them extras. "Apart from the Ministry's intention not to allow them to earn extra money in their working hours, but at the time of the supplemental work, there is Mr. Minister, what else have you done to protect the rights of patients from Serbia? On the Committee on Health and Family, President Paja Momcilov reminded that Professor Dr. Bokorov of Kamenica addressed the Committee on several occasions. She spoke to you too, Mr. Minister, and to other state institutions, and pointed to the problems that exist in that institution. First, the problem with the treatment protocol and the fact that patients who are foreign citizens are admitted, and the treatment for domestic patients has been denied. She also reminded that during one year in Vojvodina, about nine and a half thousand a year from a malignant disease, about 2.5 thousand were irradiated and 6,100 patients died. According to European and world standards, one radiation machine is needed on 250,000 inhabitants. Therefore, 3.5 thousand people of Vojvodina do not arrive for radio therapy due to low capacity and trade in the waiting list. Dr Bokorov also stressed that abuses and skipping the waiting list continue in 2010, despite the fact that domestic insurance companies cannot get to the line for radiation, continue to be treated. Prof. Dragana Jovanovic of the Association "Doctors Against Corruption" also reminded in 2002 and 2003 that the working group assessed the situation in the area of oncology and gave a study to the Ministry of Health, but so far nothing came, no response, said regarding the Institute for Oncology of Vojvodina in Sremska Kamenica. The Ministry of Health, contrary to the law, allowed something to be done that led to a serious crime against human health just by concluding a harmful contract that brought material gain. And this, as well as numerous affairs, did not worry you very much, because Serbian citizens have long lost confidence in Serbian health, which could be said for you. The list of affairs that have remained today is numerous and impressive. I don't want to say everything, but I'd like to hear some answers, because I think the citizens of Serbia deserve to get answers to some of these questions. For example, transfusion reform. This affair was plentiful with earthquakes, from three patients receiving HIV from transfusions to plans to send the collected blood by voluntary donations out of the country for processing. Then, we remember the JuCIT affair, getting an ambulance, and there's no car, no money, no company that won the tender. Very interesting and interesting. Please respond, Minister, if you know them. Finally, the crown of all these affairs is the acquisition of vaccines, which these days is very interesting and interesting for the citizens of Serbia. A vaccine against pig or Mexican or whatever you want to call it through the company of the inevitable Miskovic. In addition, you skipped one of the domestic companies "Torlak", which for years produced and exported vaccines around the world, which you allegedly explained by procedural regulations. Serbian citizens are in fear today. The time is near when the duration of these vaccines against Mexican or swine flu expires, so the citizens of Serbia are interested – will they also receive any vaccines if they are vaccinated? Are they going to get these vaccines that are just repacked in another edition or are they going to get new vaccines with a new expiry date? SRS MPs point out that determining the actual state of affairs is not a violation of the health system, nor a cause of mistrust, but an attempt to determine the consequences of health policy. Also, the proposal for changes and additions does not take into account the rights of patients. I'm going to remind all of you that we're all potential patients and that only in this situation do we start to think about health care and the health situation. The right of a patient to justice and availability is fundamentally violated. Where's the patient here? There's no law missing on patient rights. Who's protecting patients today? The patient protection law Croatia passed in 2004, and in pointing out our citizens' necessity of its adoption, claims are made that patients' rights have already been defined in several different laws. I have to admit that these changes and supplements have been granted to doctors and that's good. The previous law has created anti-constitutional discrimination. However, what is not good is that for 10 years there has been no clear package of basic services, so we are afraid that part of these services will be transferred to so-called. The extra evening work. Evening clinics and additional work will certainly not contribute to the employment of unemployed doctors, so there will continue to be more than 2,000 doctors at the Employment Bureau in Serbia. This proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act will not be effective unless the system health insurance law is previously amended. Proposed changes and additions the patient twice pays the same service. Patients themselves have also been discriminated against, because those who have money will skip waiting lists, and those who do not have can reconcile with fate. The European Charter of Patients' Rights, which was adopted in Europe in 2002, has not yet been ratified in this House. The Charter is a fundamental document of the reform of European health and it accurately defines 14 patients' rights, while only nine have been incorporated into our legislation. Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the right to live and to health and is entitled to adequate treatment. The life of a man is incomparable and no one shall be deliberately deprived of life. The right to health and availability of healthcare is one of the basic human rights. SRS MPs are convinced that the public deserves and has the right to know what is happening in The Hague and what is Dr Vojislav Seselj's health condition. The cause of severely impaired health may result in fatal outcomes, as inadequate medical treatment and cardiotoxic drug poisoning have caused tachycardia, arrhythmias, for a year ago. It's the opinion of doctors who had a chance to get acquainted with available medical records. That is why we call on you, Mr. Minister, to contribute to the discovery of the conspiracy carried out by The Hague tribunal towards Vojislav Seselj. You have to act as soon as possible if you care about human rights. President of the Search Council, three judges, Jean-Claude Antonetti, warned at the status conference a month ago that Dr Vojislav Seselj's medical condition is extremely serious and critical and therefore we appeal once again – stop killing Seselj in The Hague. At the beginning of this day, the legal representative of Prof. Vojislav Seselj told you that he asked you a question, Mr. Minister, and I am also taking the opportunity to ask you a question – what have you taken to protect the fundamental human rights, the right to life, the right to health and the right to health care of Dr. Vojislav Seselj? And one of the rights that was denied to Dr. Seselj is that the patient can choose where he will be treated. There is still a rigid legal framework with us that requires that the choice of doctors can only be made within the framework of state health, while private health care does not participate equally in the treatment of patients after 10 years of existence and possession of large capacities. Patients are also discriminated in this way, because if treated in the private sector, they are forced to pay out of their own pocket. The impression is that serious steps are not taken towards equating opportunities so that the patient can choose where and how to be treated. There must be serious dialogue between patients and health authorities, not only to improve the system but also to the fact that the patient is not at the centre of the system. Members of the SRS believe that new system laws, health care and health insurance should be adopted primarily, and that these cosmetic changes will not bring anything new, as there is no effective opportunity for taxpayers to influence anything. We also advocate guaranteed equality between the state and private sectors, which is in line with European standards, for which you too stand. Finally, SRS MPs will not vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, as well as the proposal for a decision on a plan to develop health care, as they do not lead to reform of Serbian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45356	17 minutes and 15 seconds of MP time were used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. After him, the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45357	How much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45358	There are 36 minutes and 12 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45359	Mrs. Komic, at first I would like to draw attention to those who are preparing the session. You know, a new Rules of Procedure has been adopted and it has been said that much more serious documents will come before the MPs. I don't think anyone in the O.R. would mind respecting that, so be it. When we take this document, the motion for a decision on the right to develop health care for RS, let's say, look at something that's written on page 47, then you rewrite these same paragraphs, the promoter overwrites on page 49. So, the reasons for making a plan and explaining certain parts of the plan, the same text. You know, if only someone had invested some sort of literary ability to change the order of words. Here's that copy-past, transferred, put over here. This shows that something that is of paramount importance is inconclusive. Mrs. Comic, I'd like to draw your attention to a sentence. I'd just like to ask you in the beginning not to laugh. The second paragraph of the explanation of certain parts of the plan, on page 49, please do not laugh – health has an extremely important impact on the ability of people to live everyday life. Yet you smiled, Mrs. Comic, and you find it funny what someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is after, according to Lana Gutovic, saying: "Where have you been and where you haven't been, good night". How can we interpret these papers as a serious document, please? How can we believe this is pro-European, and what was adopted a few years ago, and it was also pro-European? What's going on with Europe? It is that Angela Merkel, a few days ago, raised three fingers and said - the multicultural concept of Germany and the EU is a failure, I can understand that. They stand by their words. How can we believe in something, when we are sure that whenever something is pushing us like a document and saying – European, it turns out that it should change because Europe, meanwhile, has changed, and it has become turbo-European. Now we get the paperwork, we get some serious documents, and they get the unserious. Absolutely unserious. In courtesy of the National Assembly on the subject of citizens' health, it is not worth it to split it publicly and to throw it into papers. But it really deserves it. This should come back, throw it in the trash can and get it done seriously and done. I support everything everyone who's been discussing today about this law has said. Is the patient in the center of the health system? It's not. Why not? Because a man who has worked thirty and a change of years, contributions are paid on the basis of his salary, and the employer does so on his behalf and on behalf of the employee. The funds are accumulated and a man of thirty and a change of years doesn't go to a doctor, thank God, he's alive and well. When a doctor shows up at the doctor's house, he gets into a network of stories, standard, non-standard, primary, secondary, tertiary, million excuses, and the reasons he regrets entering the waiting room. We don't need that kind of health care system. Right to life, right to health is universal law. The state guarantees it to every citizen in RS. Don't dilute it in the system, in the network, etc. Either you're capable of providing it or you're unable to provide it. Anyway, back to the first part of the topic. It's a health care law that changes. What's changing? What changed is why the government, when the law was passed, criticised Boyic. Now they're looking for a solution that was at the time of Boyic. What did you criticize the man for? Right to supplemental work, that's one-third of the working time guaranteed to every employee. He can make it happen at another firm. I agree that there are certain specificities in the matter of health care. You can't find a specialist or a top doctor anywhere you want. Please, now to remind you of a story from twenty or thirty years ago, there was a famous Peda Vidojkovic in Nis. He was in health policy. Back then, back in Tito's day, they wanted to get in the way of the white mob, the health mafia. It has been said – it is not specific to the socialist self-government system for doctors to be at the clinic, to be at the university, to work at a health home, to have more weights because they had three four quasi-radio relationships and receivings, etc. Peda Vidojković comes nicely to the Committee and says – people, don't do this. Why? Doctors are a special fela. If you do, there will be a big problem. Tito was afraid of white coats. That's why they seem so pretentious today. Infallible. Not all doctors, I don't generalise, but the health authorities are untouchable. Why? Because it's still in our psyche, what exists hundreds of years ago. In the village and most respected people are priests, teachers, and doctors. Why? Because by their definition they had to be infallible, great experts and great humanists. Is the situation with these professions today? Today they're all sinners. Of course, they all fall to the material aspect of their position. You see, I expected the Ministry of Health to solve the problem with changes and additions to this law, and that problem is on the side of the 9th plan. It states that according to the 2008 data, 3102 healthcare professionals waiting for work. There are 1752 doctors of medicine etc. What's their perspective on hiring? Not everyone can finish medical school. However, there are some anomalies around privileged children. But for some years, he's been struggling to finish a difficult college, and he's supposed to be at the Bureau. Where's the plan to get rid of them? The Ministry is talking about these plans. Then I'll give you an example, one that entered into that plan of our health ministry. The man's from Prokupil, not to mention the names. He made a promise to the Ministry. He says, "You've accepted me by competition, you've arranged me where you've accepted me." They didn't even want to talk to the Department of Health. Can anyone who demonstrates that kind of potential realize that human problems exist? I'll give you that. I'll give you what the government's been doing since September 1st this year. Of course, in the coordination of some ministries, of course, those for privatisation and those for health. - Star Special Hospital. A strategic partner, and a Fontana, and this, and that. Is that hospital gonna get lost? Is that gonna go somewhere? Where are the health policy limits? As long as he can, and from where he can't. Or I have 126, so I can do whatever I want. It's probably the biggest problem. Not to repeat some of the things my predecessors mentioned, but understand one thing, anything to say here about this area, you won't be wrong. You'll all be right. That's the real situation. Now I have no intention of being the Holy Sava and atone for those who are in the government, but I think you who are in the government should sit down and make a deal. Especially you from G17 plus. It can't be said in this document on page 5 that in 2008, the unemployment rate was 14.7%, when in two days we have the agenda of the Employment Act, where it is said that in 2008, that rate was 25%. What kind of document is that? Is this a serious document, where the government is denying itself? The government offers us data the way it suits them at a given time, as it is estimated. Let's move on. Here it is said, it is not a laughing situation, but be careful when someone who is to dictate health policy writes a sentence – chronic non-infectious diseases, leading to causes of illness, disability and premature death of the population of RS. Premature dying. Imagine, they even estimate how much a man can live. Premature dying. You, Mrs. Comic, ask me to discuss this document seriously. I can only accept that there are mental health problems, and there's that part right here in this document. Please, let's find out where the mental problems are. Let's move on. Data are being reported and there is no European standard. There's a European average. Please, according to the new Rules of Procedure, you should finally make a statement on the compliance of certain acts. Here's a statement for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. No, no, no, no. There is no obligation to comply with the EU because they do not have a regulation. As the minister arrives, he tells us that it's a European standard, that's this, that's that. When do you tell the truth? When are you telling the truth? It is also said: national health policy is in the jurisdiction of each EU Member State separately. Why? The EU is not interested in health care. They're interested in free flow of goods, capital, services. That is why it is necessary to remove the borders, to create a private sector. Health care is a humane area. There's no profit in it. If there's a profit, then there's some other regulations and some other standards. Let's move on. Funny document, tragic, what to do. It's said like this -- the separation, now there's a famous story about GDP and health care separation. I don't want to comment on her. Why? Because it absolutely doesn't mean anything. It's like comparing grandmothers and frogs. But we have experts who are able to compare the grandmother to the frog and present it to us as the ultimate range of science, European science, as it were. It says – health is a state of total mental, physical and social well-being, not just the absence of illness and disability. Can anyone interpret what the writer was trying to say? It says: improve mental health. I'm making a big contribution to improving mental health. There's talk of emotions here. Adequate answers, talk, fight drugs. Save the BIA, you've solved the problem. But no, they're talking. Please, now I'd like you to give this to Mr. Chiplic, because this is going to be a really interesting topic for him. What does the government think about one thing? That's page 22, 2.2. Reduction of HIV (AIDS) disease and death. Now the story is what activities are planned by the health authorities. It shows – there should be a reduction in the adverse consequences. It is now stated – men who have sexual relations with men. I support you, Mr. Minister. You've really defined it by definition. What kind of culprit were you looking for on October 10th here in Belgrade? What's your policy? The one that was on October 10th or the one you put in health regulations? Guys, define yourselves. Define yourself, say what's what. This is where some experts come to us and say, "It's just a little disorder, as you write with your left hand, you write with your right hand." The minister defined nicely, it's a health issue of the state. The state's fighting a health problem, but they're setting you up on wheels, Mr. Milosavljevic, and that's this chipplic. He's setting you up. You sit in the government and make a deal. Or cut yourself out who's going to represent something, but don't go unanimity towards the citizens, because then the citizens get a divided system of values. They do not know what is good, as it used to be – a condom against the cordon, acceptable, now a condom set behind the cordon, so dangerous. Go back to this document, don't embarrass yourself, you're embarrassing the state. He says, improving women's health in the reproductive age, skipping these things, I've read the offensive things here. Please, Mrs. Comic, where is Mrs. Plasic? I expect her to back me up for what I'm about to say. Improving and preserving the health of marginalised population groups. Serbian brothers, Serbian sisters, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected Mrs. Comic, do you know who these marginalized groups of people are? They are defined by a strategy to reduce poverty and a strategy to improve the situation of the Roma. The poor are marginalized, they are not of interest to you. You give activity in two and a half rows. So they're your ballast, they're your distraction. He says -- the result of an expertly-led consulting process, what they allegedly did. It's hard for someone like this to write papers. It says – the plan is an integral part of all strategies, etc. All strategies come from the plan. From general to individual, not individual to general. Analysis and synthesis are some forms of scientific examination of the problem, but the law set up the first plan, and then elaborated the plan with some other documents. Please give it once, as health must be guaranteed to every man on every square centimetre of the Republic of Serbia, define these relations Republic, AP, unit of local self-government. How well you accepted the process of decentralisation. Ask people in Vojvodina how much health care they've had since Cank's concept of Serbia's split has been improved. Don't play with the state. The state is a very serious institution. There's been a lot of changes in the country. They're long-term preparing, planning, to the details of the funeral. They have to be quite acceptable, they have to be explained why what's taking the right solution, and then it's going, stop with these pro-European improvisations. Please, you should kind of look at it. It would be good, as one said the other day -- hooligans won't run Serbia, these, new ones don't need them, but they keep doing business with Serbia. I call upon all MPs, perhaps some parts in a funny way I have told to keep it remembered, the situation is serious. I would ask you all to put extra pressure on these two proposals to pull out of today's session, to do it nicely, of course, and starting with some principles, that a citizen, a patient, be at the heart of the health system, to question a lot of other things and then come up with one document that we can all agree on. Health is not a matter of bidding. You need to take advantage of the opportunity that everything that represents potential and that all human resources that we can include in the health care system to do that, to drop politics, you have a membership card, you have a choice, you don't have a membership card, I don't want to talk to you. It's there and we all know it. Let's develop this health policy on another system. We need time to arm him, make alternatives and finally understand one more thing, private property should be sacred. Let's try some other system, every insurance company's I.D., but somebody's not making improvisations. Of course, I support all these MPs who are in the profession to define what services they are. Let it break more with these concepts that no longer mean anything or represent some excuse. Of course, all forms of property should be equal. One more thing, Mr. Milosavljevic, I am now speaking to you personally, make sure that VMA is returned to the civil health system. I think it is unacceptable that for the simplest thing, even an advisory opinion, which has been the situation these 15 days, a cardiologist who is in charge of The Hague tribunal's secretariats cannot even talk, because everything has to go through Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. So you have to turn to Sutanovec, so that he can pass it to Jevtic, and Jevtic Milojevic, and Milojevic back again, and what will happen to the patient in that time? Do we have reason to believe that adequate medical care is provided in The Hague? We have experience with Slobodan Milosevic, before the end of the procedure a problem of high blood pressure appeared and everyone said, yes, it is under control, you are treated in a top-notch way and on 11 March 2006 he died. Are we gonna let that happen? I won't let that happen. You want to be an accomplice or someone who's watching a direct transmission of murder, referring to whether it's this or that? Show your humanity at work at all times. The health authorities need to raise their voice, but they shouldn't, because you're following the policy written by Carla del Ponte. On February 17th, 2003, Zoran Djindjic told her – take Vojislav Seselj and do not return him again. You're a little confused.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45360	22 minutes and 33 seconds of the parliamentary group were used, 14 minutes and 12 seconds are available. I'm setting a break now. We continue work at the afternoon session at 3:10 p.m. The first registered speaker in the afternoon part is the People's MP Paja Momcilov, followed by the National MP Vesna Pesic. Thank you. [[After break – 15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon debate in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search of the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov, has the word, followed by the National Messenger Vesna Pesic. The time available for the parliamentary group is 14 minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here we continue this debate, although we are quite few in this room. When a plan and a health care programme for a developed country is adopted, then usually a document addressed to MPs has the prime minister's opening statement. For example, so is the British plan and the German and some other developed countries. Unfortunately, health seems not to be a problem for the prime minister of our government, and it certainly does not seem to touch much or of the MPs. What I'd like to say is, surely, no matter how we touch this plan, we always come across a series of problems, it's on each side of the problem. I tried to point out in this first section that concerned the health status of the population that did not see the underlying problem -- the preservation of the biological integrity of the people who are at risk of low birth and high general mortality rates, where two groups of diseases dominate, which are cardiovascular and malignant diseases, where we have two epidemics in our country, and fundamentally we have that mortality is largely caused by premature mortality in these diseases. What is there to say in particular? Should we say if there's a cure when you're having a difficult situation like this? Yeah, you have a cure, but then you have to make a serious reform of the health system, and then you have to reorient the system to promote healthy lifestyles and protect health, prevention. These are cheap benefits that they give over a longer period of time and what good results. Now, if a man were to go in line, you have another item that reads around, the health condition of the population we've seen around how it's pointed out here. When it comes to health services and available facilities, then you just have to read general findings. The environment, when explained, is also generally described, without an assessment of the extent to which the factors that are listed affect health, from financing health care for the processed population, the collection of allocations by purpose. Here you have a distribution in which only a sign is not distributed according to needs at all, and it's a long way from there and by the head of the population, so that you can see how much per capita spends on what things, which one serious plan would have to have. Of course, I said what's main, the problem with this is that it doesn't comply with the law at all, with Article 16 that says that health policy is going the way for the adoption of programmes and strategies. It's all the other way around here, but what's vice versa is that I'm not allowed to be completely specific, you've often heard that I'm calling on the same document, which is the European Association of the World Health Organization, the department has given a document that is binding for us and I'm going to read what the objective of reducing non-infectious diseases looks like. To be perfectly clear, he says "by 2020 mortality, disability and premature mortality caused by major chronic diseases should be reduced to the highest possible level in the whole region"; then he says: "death from cardiovascular diseases in people under 65 should be reduced by 40%, especially in countries with high mortality", and we are you. Where can you find that in this document? "Death to cancer of any localisation in persons under 65 should be reduced by 15% on average and death from lung cancer by 25%" etc. All targets are defined in this way. There's no such thing in this plan. Mr Krasic said this is an unspeakable plan, an incomplete plan, essentially a bad plan that shames both parliament and the state of Serbia. Of course, no wonder. I wonder, if the law was passed in 2005, and now it's 2010, why are we just making a plan now? Please give me a concrete answer. We have a minister, he'll probably answer. What objective circumstances have made the government and the Ministry wait so long to get this plan? What about the plan interesting? If it's been so long, why didn't we get quality paper? In a letter from the working group doing this, it says: In a very short time to draw up a plan (as long as you think they have been given time to do this; a month; this is a shame, the group has been brought into a very unpleasant situation), by the Ministry of Health or the Government, I don't know who, since 21 September 2009, has been educated working group to draft the text of the plan by 30 November 2009. They made an 18th such a bad proposal that does not correspond at all with Serbian law, I do not need to read the article again. 16th and 17th, not with the European equities we should stick to. If you look at what is happening with private practice – disaster. We don't have time, for such serious documents we must have time. Unfortunately, someone does not allow a quality, professional, responsible and objective debate by handling this debate. You should go from item to item and really see what are the huge disadvantages of this paper. It is said that a partnership should be developed. What kind of partner relationship? Europe, capitalism and everything that is modern and health care requires integration into a single system of private medical practice. It's the only way you can get good results. It's not a guarantee either, of course, but the assumption and the prerequisite for that to happen, and here it's about some partner-developing relationship. Inadmissible. If you look at the priorities, in all the items listed, for example, it is said: the reduction of injury foresees implementation, monitoring and evaluation of several national strategies, but there is no clear objective. There's no quantification, there's no quantification, there's no monitoring of the evaluation, eventually, at the end or, if there's another program, then we'll write it down. The promoter himself said that if you have a lot of programs and strategies, you can get lost in them and have a dead letter on paper. That's our situation. We have a strategy to fight cancer, a national plan to fight cancer, and the system has tripled completely. The problem with Serbian health at the moment is that we have a broken system. The broken system was recognised by the minister himself when he said he did not manage it, that he could not implement a single health policy on the territory of all Serbia. That's what he said the other day in Vrsec. One of my predecessors noticed that the Ministry of Health was the most attacked ministry of all. Right, good point. I'd be free to add -- rightly so. We have one crashed system. Is it true what I say? The health indicators of this people speak of it. Ten days ago, I was at the European Health Forum in Austria, where 13th year, people who make health policies in Europe meet. You know what the topics are? Personal medicine. When are we gonna hear about something like that and where is it in these documents? I'm not complaining about something that's unrealistic. Where are you going to see in this document how many people couldn't buy a prescription drug belonging to a vulnerable group of Roma, refugees and the poor population? These studies exist. European taxpayers' money is paid for such studies, and where is it in this document? No, strategies, plans, programmes, general places, sums and blurry of the real situation that this people are in a terrible problem and that he is just biologically disappearing from these fields. This is a basic and main goal which, once, I say not only by the action of the Ministry of Health, which cannot only be achieved, by a targeted and shared action by all government, ministries and society, should try to reverse it. What I also want to say, and I am obliged to say, that this is absolutely, in my opinion, to be returned. When 800,000 people with disabilities come to the Committee and say – we disabled women have nowhere to look gynologically and therefore we have problems with malignancies and we are unequal, we cannot go beyond that and calmly remain silent and write general pamphlets that are nothing like anything. Lots of words, lots of words, but no facts. Mr. Minister, who laughs sweetly, who has been demissioning practically from his post lately, has no longer been on the board for a long time. What does that mean? A great commitment, perhaps, perhaps something else, but the reality is that the Committee is not significant to him. We are now talking about the state of health of Mr Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. As a doctor, as a man who belongs to one esnaf, and is bound by specific ethical norms, I can be surprised that the responsible factors of this country are silent about the killing of citizens of this country, Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, but I have no right to, when Mr. Minister blurs out the harsh truth with such documents, that Serbia's health is in danger of being destroyed and threatened by the disappearance. I'd like him to kill me with numbers, not most of the stories that have been going on for eight years, how terrible it was, and now it's just the consequences. It was scary when we were bombed and we had sanctions, but now it's gone, and you have loans and you don't have $390. In this document you wrote $500 and some dollars per capita, and for years you've been dating this data about $395 per capita. For this reason, honourable MPs, I urge you not to vote for such an unquality, non-European one, it is cynical to say European documents, because this does not go in favour of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45363	National MP Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45364	First of all, I'd like to say that it would be a good idea if we started in our legislative acts that we get to apply a more modern type of expression than we see in these documents, let's say in this law. I could ask Mr. Minister if when he went to Germany to be treated there, I don't mind, is there a doctor who operated on you called a worker, a health worker or a doctor's name? In this law, when you read it, especially for ordinary people, you kept that termology so much for some workers. The doctor is never a worker. Then you have another, some associates of these health workers, others of those workers. Put the names of the profession, so we know who's involved in these teams. If a healthcare professional is a doctor, let him call himself a doctor. If he's an associate, let him call himself a nurse or medical staff. If he's a technician, let him call himself a technician. Use those more modern terms, rather than the terms that sound terribly raving in the laws when we read about these various types of workers that exist here, and very often they are not any workers. So we can't call ourselves workers, we're MPs, and I'd like to pray that such an outdated terminology once comes out of our documents, but to call doctors doctors, not to call them workers, because they're not called workers anywhere in the world. Secondly, I object to this law, it's a constant pain that when you propose certain amendments and amendments to the law, it would be very good if you really formulate the problem you want to solve first. When we begin to read the reasons why this law is passed, you are in fact saying that it is the creation of conditions to meet the ever growing needs of the population in the use of health care through the provision of available health care to all citizens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and, it says, by organising additional work of health workers. What are you guys really up to? I don't see what you're perfecting when it comes to us. So far, as patients, as citizens, we have been able to go and pay for certain health services. We could also get that at the state health care facility. So I don't see how you're perfecting some of our opportunities, service to the citizens, by providing additional work to doctors. That's the first thing I don't get. What I can see as a sociologist is the supplemental work that you regulate and which has already been the subject of large debates and in the previous law that was passed in 2005, and the problem is that this worker, who is actually a doctor, should be in this country most often someone who has a terrible low salary, an unauthorized small salary and nowhere in the world serious doctors or normal doctors will work for such a salary. To solve this problem that you can't pay the doctors, you're making up this supplemental work now. First they went to private clinics, and there they complemented these salaries that were unworthy, and the same applies to other medical staff, nurses, technicians. So, you're using this law instead of saying -- we're trying to solve the status issue of medical staff, doctors and others, and above all the doctors, because this health care system and this money you have at your disposal can't pay doctors normally, but you have to practically provide them with some kind of part-time work. So for me, first of all, the question is, how do you define this supplemental work in the first place? What's all this extra work? Is that a possibility of double employment? Is that some kind of overtime? Why does that even exist? You know, I've lived a long time, before I went to the hospital, no doctor's extra work was necessary, going to hospitals, being treated in hospitals, and they didn't have to have any additional work to do. They could live off some of their pay, and today the situation is that doctors can't live on their basic salary and we need to give them the opportunity to do it. I'd like to really talk about this problem, rather than falsely showing that some better services are for citizens now, and we're actually solving a very important problem, which is the status of doctors and medical staff. That's what we're talking about here. So, when the exact problem is formulated, then we can, as MPs and as the public, understand the problem and then take an adequate part in it and make a contribution through the debate. This way, when it turns out it's something to do with citizens, it doesn't matter. We were citizens once, we were going into hospitals, and neither the doctor worked seven to nine nights, nor we had private clinics, we didn't need anything, and now that you can't pay the doctors, you have to make up now that they can work overtime in their own hospitals and thus get some income. I don't mind, but I wish we could get our doctors a normal salary. You can't turn doctors into people who are lower, middle class. They must have income at least at the level of normal middle class. Our doctors don't have that, and it's a disaster, and I'm not talking about any other medical staff I should be talking about, too. And a nurse should be a member of that middle class, perhaps a little lower, but it's a white slave who works for a terribly small salary. That's what we're talking about. What can we do from the insurance that you're withdrawing from your income, what can we do from that, what am I now telling you as a sociologist, to provide? We can now see whose position you've suggested from these changes. If we look at this the way you suggested here, the first thing I notice where things don't make sense to me is that you say that extra work will be made possible in one third of the working time. I'm asking if a doctor who fills a certain number of classes, a certain working hours, is that another third? If we take it to work, say, eight hours a day, then assigned duty, days off, that's one total fund of class, does that mean that this doctor who has extra work, either in private, or in the same state service, does he work 11 hours a day? It's not in my interest that I have one completely exhausted doctor waiting, who doesn't have time to watch the patient to save his energy to work privately for another three hours, when we know that what he normally does is enough to live in one decent way. That's a big problem. So, we're in a situation where, as patients, we don't know what he's doing with us, whether we're caught up in something that's missing from getting to the hospital or after hours so we can pay or fly to come to a private clinic, and when I'm a patient as a security guard, he looks to shake me off as soon as possible to save the energy to come when he gets paid for what he's doing. I don't think you can solve it this way because we'll always be losers, because doctors have to do a lot more to get decent pay, and we need to be neglected to go there and in a situation where it's paid either in private, or in a state institution. I'm interested in how you're gonna organize these teams. You say they're teams. How is this team going to get a private practice at a private clinic if the doctor allows him to take this whole team with him or if the team is going to work with him or if a nurse gets an increase in income, let's just say, when she's in her hospital? Which private clinic will receive other people's teams. That's impossible because you say it will be in accordance with this law, these teams will work both in private practice and in state. How is that going to be organized? To get back to this, how are you going to count a third of your working time? You've got doctors who are doctors at the hospital at the same time, but they're both university professors and they already have two incomes. Now that you're in the hospital, all our doctors are assistants, doctors and teachers. It's rare when they meet that someone isn't a professor, so on one case, which is amazing, let's say on the inside, you have 150 professors. Do we have so many students that we need so many teachers? We have a huge production of doctoral dissertation to take a position at the university, to re-solve this fundamental social issue of our doctors, and then get some pay in college, so I'll pay here. Now this is some kind of third paycheck. Please answer me which third of the working hours are they from this profession, are they from what they're doing at the hospital? What happens to doctors in health homes? Are those poor bastards doomed to work for that minimum wage? Where will they work part-time and where will they be employed in this supplemental work? Is that gonna be a special night or is that just about other doctors? This way, when you read this, this is an unseen papaziania, instead of at least making some kind of system that we as citizens know what's going to happen to us when we get to the hospital or somewhere else, whether the service is going to get worse because of this, and the doctor's position is fixed, but my position is going to be much worse. That's a question that's being asked here, and it's better that we went to the medical staff's position than we're talking about citizens. The citizens are not represented here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45365	National MP Nikola Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are very often witnessing that many legislative proposals are being considered not only in the field of health but also in the package. This results in a critical review of the legal proposals themselves, and this is one of the basic reasons why many laws before they live to the full are returned to parliament's agenda to change and improve. Today, we are considering amendments to the Health Protection Act, as well as a decision on a health care development plan. Both documents have a strategic character, which means it will have a serious impact on the quality of the health system, and what citizens feel the most. I am taking this opportunity to point out that quality health and education are the basis of every nation's vitality. Many nations have therefore remained vital and in the most difficult circumstances for their countries. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, they refer to the supplemental work of doctors, both in state and private health institutions. These changes would allow doctors, in addition to full-time in the hospital or home of health and additional work at another institution, to be state or private. I think it is important to remind that since 2008, according to the applicable law, all doctors except teachers at the university have been limited to the right to additional work. The idea was that if it was to be done, it was necessary to share working hours, and thus to pay contributions, etc. On that occasion, the minister said that the provision cannot be withdrawn and that it cannot be changed as to whom it comes to mind. Also, from that same address, I quote, it is not surprising that it is instrumentalised by a group of private employers and the owners of offices that have reduced profits because of this solution. The reminders for this purpose, it was also stated that this rule solves the issue of weighting. Today, when we are faced with amendments to the Health Protection Act, the question could be asked whether the ministry has a long-term or strategic health development plan. The question arises whether the ministry continues to stand in the 2008 words, and if that is not the case, whether then the words of halabuka and teggarje get a new context and become the opinion of the profession and additional work. If the minister remained in that position since 2008, then the pressure has yielded fruit and therefore the law has changed further. However, with all due respect to the fact that our society is in transition, I think it is necessary to experiment less, and it is necessary to rely on proven and tried models that should be applied. Of course, now it remains open whether it's Czech or some other model, but I think it's necessary for citizens to tell which direction they're looking at. On the other hand, it has been said that a valid legal solution and division of working time for doctors would also open up space to hire young unemployed doctors. The attitude we now hear that this did not bear fruit due to the inagility of the directors of the institutions, i.e. that the additional work in the healthcare institutions is not better arranged because of this inagility. The question arises whether this non-agility of the director of health institutions refers to only one segment, the issue of editing supplemental work, or is it one general non-agility? Of course, what remains for young doctors who are unemployed and what are their options? Instead of being able to perfect themselves through work and practice, many of them will be heading towards Slovenia, where they will be struggling with the nostrification of the diploma, some will go to Germany, etc. Despite the very fact that there is a kind of hyperproduction of medical personnel from the university, I'm afraid sooner or later we will face the deficit of experts because young people will not have the opportunity to work to further perfect themselves. Also, one of the legitimate questions that is being asked is whether these will reduce waiting lists and improve the quality of state health? In theory, some doctors working at a state institution are able to tell the patient that waiting lists are too long, that he does not have time to deal with his case in particular and therefore directs him to himself in private practice. What will happen to others who are unable to pay for their additional work, and does that increase the corruption of the system itself? If it wasn't possible for the directors to be up-to-date, how would it be expected to do so with the others? Finally, a key question asked by my colleague Dr Dimitrijevic, can the health system answer healthcare users? If the answer is that the question can be asked – why am I additional work, if it cannot – the question is why is it not an integrated part of the private sector according to the applicable standards? Of course, the question can be asked - how is there no room for serious integration of part of the private sector into public health, and it is possible to integrate part of the Turkish health sector into our home system? The reminders work, private offices along with pharmacies and dentists have about eight and a half thousand working in 10,000 doctors. It's a really big potential, and I think we should think about it. As far as the health care development plan is concerned, he has some solid elements, but I think it's necessary to be realistic. The plan should not only be a synthesis of certain current and prescribed data and measures, but also a well-designed and integrated health development instrument in a comprehensive strategy. The current economic social situation we are in should be respected. As a result, this plan should be feasible, and less should be a kind of list of good wishes. The document says, for example, that an adequate level of public security for healthcare professionals has been achieved, but when it is seen in practice there is a real problem of territorial inequality in terms of that security. Thus, the number of doctors from the network plan on the 100,000 inhabitants shows serious variations in different districts. I think there could have been better formulations on integrated health care, as well as in the development of a rapid response system to health security threats. Of course, several speakers in previous exhibitions also indicated that they only generally mention the basic package and the standard of health services. Also, there is no clear mention of the necessity of equalising the private and state sectors after receiving the same standards when it comes to human beings, procedures, as well as quality control. I think it was a failure to mention loans, therefore, credit lines and arrangements as a source for the realisation of capital projects in healthcare, because we have also witnessed that clinical centres throughout Serbia are being renovated from these funds. I also think that there is insufficient emphasis on prevention in all areas of health. The preventative protects lives, strengthens vitality, and saves money. In addition to prevention, early detection is important. It helps some diseases to be successful, and many are fully treated if they are detected in the early stages. The DSS parliamentary group whenever the budget is on the agenda and submits amendments requiring most of the money to be increased for projects related to early detection and prevention of malignancies, such as uterus, colon and other cancers, as well as other diseases such as diabetes, etc. It symbolizes our commitment to prevention as a way to achieve a healthy nation. We have had opportunities these days to hear worrying facts about the increase in lung cancer, especially in young people up to 40 years of age. Compared to 1,800 patients before the late 1990s, there are now cases that these figures are multiplely increased and that the number is from four to five thousand newly ill. There's also an early detection very critical when it comes to successful treatment, successful treatment. Is it, and I would like the minister to answer that, research has been done that causes these malignancies to rise, and is something on this issue being done, since, unfortunately, as a country recordman in Europe, we are by the number of lung cancer patients and uterus cancers? Of course, prevention and education are one of the key things and it should be an accent and more means to do so. I will not talk about the organisation of dental protection in particular, although it is clear that in a country where citizens spend an average of 12 centimeters of toothpaste, it is extremely irresponsible to leave the majority of dental protection to the private sector, and in this prevention it does not use in full capacity, and I mean fluorating water and other methods. Otherwise, it is also sad that blood donors do not have free dental care because their health depends on the quality of their giving. How many plans are missing and how unscheduled it illustrates and the fact that it speaks of the need to adopt a new strategy to fight HIV AIDS for the post-2010 period. Since the old strategy has expired, and in the meantime the state has already received money from the global fund, I think it is necessary to access the formulation as soon as possible and that strategy. And also, in one segment of the plan, we're talking about the incidence and prevalence of HIV AIDS, even though it's actually two separate identities, and we're trying to change the effect here, you'll see that when you review the amendments. To conclude, I think it's possible with the same amount of money to organize the health system in a better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45367	The People's MP Mileta Pocurica has a word. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45368	I'll pick up where I left off. I think it was a lamentation over the fate of smokers in today's day, scrawny faces, on-call journalists, to make 34% of Serbia's citizens be stars or Partisans inevitably, but that fits the strategy. Enough to start Serbia, her step towards Europe, would be one room for smokers, not this torture and humiliation that MPs are applying today. It's part of the agenda. Why? I've stopped at priority areas, organisation and functioning of health care. Of course, integrated healthcare is a subtitle, and the second is to strengthen the role of institutes and public health institutions. Here with these messages of general purpose, which with a higher level of education, education, in the process of maturation arrive before the need to be regulated by law, that should not be overly overweight, take care of physical activity etc., I have nothing against repeating it, but it turns into stereotype tasks special teams in health homes, which instead of working with patients on what is in the description of their work, again prevention, more or less and sending you left or right for secondary levels. Then they go and make some kind of gatherings, ten or twelve people get together and talk about a lot of things, generalized topics, which, believe me, 90% of the citizens already know in advance what they're going to be told. At the same time, this concept of the health system has abolished the Diabetes Council. Now they're going to talk to a group of pensioners or someone about poor diets, and already sick people who need to be controlled and kept in mind that they don't make their condition worse, they won't have any counseling facilities. For nothing, they're professional organizations and people who ran the counseling center and showed good results, it just occurred to someone to shut it down, to experiment a little bit. It's one of the weaknesses that's not even mentioned here in the program. What I would like to say further, it is the availability, accessibility of healthcare to users, which is unequal and through regional commitment, but not health institutions wrong, is the network plan's fault. The law found the change of ownership, the founding rights at sector level in primary protection. And what did it get? A greater obligation by the city hall, the city hall, and the right of the tenants. Now they can be willing to appoint their directors, vice directors, directors of pharmacies, pharmacists of pharmacies, and for God's sake they benefit. Many local self-governments do very well to function very well, when under their paw they have control of the director, with an enormously high margin of up to 18% or 20% for drugs, as if they sell seasonal fruits, and pharmacies are often a source of great help to local self-government. For a variety of purposes, though. No one will mind, if it goes for treatment, for the children I've been talking about, but most often it goes for many other purposes. Participation to the greater problem, was shyly cited earlier. Now she, though, is regulated by the rules. Every year it refreshes, something is downloaded or not removed from the list, remains a striking degree of inequality. What you're about to get rid of at the cheapest level of examination, least appreciated, and that's um, that's knowledge, human potential, that's a doctor. That's where you'll find a reason not to pay for the participation. Hell, when you go to the pharmacist, half of it falls into the water. Fifty dinars per box, two boxes a hundred dinars or how many. So, an extra story about what will be, what won't be on the list any more is this pharmaceutical lobbying product, and that'll come next, when they're a doctor's chamber, but once we should know that some things have to be more serious, that certain groups of drugs are not favored, that maybe the price difference is paid, etc., so that some producers don't favour themselves because of the nuance of the price difference. The NGO sector, of course, must always be mentioned, it is quite clear and everyone has to consult on it. The health plan; if ever there was a talk about it, it was today, we all talked about it. This law, the question of when it will be adopted, is already scheduled for Thursday at one of our clinical centres, the internalist department to receive a new man, who comes from another clinical center to strengthen the work on intervention procedures, but who, for God's sake, is also given a place at the university. So, the law didn't even come into force, but we do it, we open one place, get a man and a job at college, what do we do? Our town I'm talking about, you assume, is not even unknown in that it is very fond of bringing, conditionally speaking, out-of-the-way personnel from Belgrade, along with its directors, to various well-paid functions. In doing so, of course, everything does not pay for them – both the way and the accommodation, the driving, etc. That's right, just proof of how fast we're going and anticipating events. He knows someone very well when this law is planned and who it's planned for, what it's going to be. We don't have to talk about names, nobody's guilty, but it's not a bad motivation either. The pay for people to do interventions today is 300-400 grand on some phantom deal with the directors, with the fund. Three or four salaries have more than the same fellow cardiologist who defibrillates, who saves life. This is how it is done and the order of those in need of the diagnostics is reduced. That's stage one. What happens when that need determines that a cardiosurgeon is needed, then he will go to Turkey. It wasn't solved until the end. It's some moves, it's nice for someone who's beaming away from a doctor to get paid that much. What, so they're gone, so they're less radiant? What if we put all three or four people in our hands to work all the time, to be on the stand by, it's not a little pleasant. When a man comes, he has to come from home urgently, but it's radiating and it keeps going on and on. Why is there a deficit in that? Also included are cardiologists, radiologists, there are who could competently come and, of course, by means of some tangible mechanism, some competition, not by this appointment – the sword on the right shoulder and is appointed, set. But that's how you do it long ago in this system. Improving the efficiency of quality of providing health services; this now indicates a change in the financing system. What it's going to look like when you consider the fact that, say, five to seven and a half thousand charts are needed for a gynecologist. If that were the case, if each one came, it was from five to seven thousand views and only one woman was examined. At least a pregnant woman comes at least three or four times a month to see her doctor. The scheduled lines, where there are scheduled lists and the arrival of emergency cases, the one that is defined for this gynecologist, disrupts that list. That concept isn't good enough. The nurse who works there is a list – 26 different notebooks, books, manuals, to make records, protocol. Book, notebook, mostly 26 tax. A third, I said, of it a day to open, plus all the current work. We have 20-30% of sisters less than European capacities. Is this lack of frameing a place where political appointments, local directors, are meant to satisfy their desires, their appetites, their parties, or is it even not enough to achieve some balance between the number of doctors, the number of nurses and the expected volume of work? When it comes to health homes, it's a little lower. You were conflicted and faced with a strike in Belgrade. There's been talk all year about a third shift. This lead in the vulgarization of the third shift, this kind of working level of relationship towards obligations, the traditional production ratio now seems vulgar. You know, it's no longer like medicine and the sophistication of work. Doctors and patients were in some kind of co-operation, in agreement, let's just survive it the way it is, to try to help because patients seem to understand the doctor's problem better than their parent minister. Now something about funding pharmaceutical houses, these lobbies of famous ones, that the situation at the Oncology Institute has set in motion. I remember, I won't be long, the minister, I read in the paper, in 2009 said that not agreeing to take a vaccine is a collective test of intelligence, and that doctors who don't speak for this need are not worthy or perform functions or education, etc., or for calling a healthcare professional. That collective test didn't even pass 10%. I don't know exactly how many people have been vaccinated. Isn't this about losing the trust of the entire team institutionally and personally headed by the minister, headed by the head of the epidemic service, Kona, who went halfway around the world, where you assured the citizens that they had to, or would it be this or that? And it fell. Why this collective psychology, why put citizens in a position to be considered a collective group of people to be psychologically tested, if they sense their extra-developed receptors that there's something wrong with that story? You must respect the sense of will. You don't think it was a political doctrine, that politicians taught the people not to take the vaccine? That's some amazing stuff. Why am I saying that? The medical chamber is being kidnapped with the ministry about it, although dissonant tones are being heard, will pharmaceutical houses or not sponsor professional gatherings? In this unfortunate chase for KME points, which are not heard and heard, but in order to get as many or as many points, the chamber lags behind, but does not lag behind in taking the money. They're neatly denied part of their salary. It's a very decent loan for someone on an annual basis, as many doctors as they take here, so you can see what it is. From that, you have nothing, no protection, you wait for someone to condemn you, so that they join. They can't fight it, they're against sponsoring pharmaceutical houses, which is what the minister is against to sponsor, but there are some misunderstandings left. They can pay for the trip, the registration and the stay, and congress lectures can pay for it through some famous agency, while the medical chamber suggests doing it in a different way. Why am I saying this? Somewhere there is the implementation of the continuity of medical education in some institutions that can do so is a huge problem of how to get money to keep them, and with other opportunities you can see that lectures of pharmaceutical houses are being held at the call held by our people in the middle, at the center of the prime time. I don't know how long the agency's been? Where was the inspector? Is that what the inspector visited? Did he see that? These unequal arches are one of the problems we face in health care. There's no talking about this harmonisation, no synchronization at levels, no co-operation between the medical chamber and the ministry, as far as I can see, on this important issue. You can't turn off the pharmaceutical houses. They have to help, but they shouldn't lobby. How and in what way, you've had ten years of time to find a modusa.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45369	MP Gjuro Muchenski has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45370	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens. I'm going to look back at these two points, these two documents, and I'm going to try to show them in a different light than it's ever been before. We've seen, mostly, just a critical review without offering any concrete solution. In the first part of my presentation, I will explain the plan to develop health care and give some of its basic characteristics. I want to point out that this is a document of the general type that provides guidelines for the development of health care. It would be illogical if it contained entirely precise plans for all users of the health system, because then the document would be too rigid, and it serves to enable the healthcare system to respond to the health needs that are ahead of us in the next period. The health care development plan defines the basic objectives and direction of health care development in terms of improving and establishing a balance between efficiency and efficiency, between quality and safety of health care at all levels. It is based on a health analysis, on the needs of the population for health care and what is crucial, on our human and financial potentials. It represents an integral part of all strategies, plans, measures and activities and is aimed at identifying the sustainable development of our country's health care. The main objective of the plan is to preserve the health status of the population, its promotion, the extension of the human century and improve the quality of life. The greatest dilemma may be the extension of the human century because, with the extension of the human century, we achieve what we want, that we all live longer and better, but by doing so, we automatically create higher costs, among other things, for the health system, and that is the goal towards which we go unequivocally, regardless of the price of its achievement. This document consists of four continents, one showing the current state of the health population, the second is the definition of the basic priorities, the third is implementation, monitoring and evaluation of its and the fourth part is the amount of the budget needed to achieve it. Health analysis deals with the processing of leading causes of illness, disability and death, deals with disease from massive non-infectious diseases; for those who do not understand this concept, that is, the disease of all the diseases that occur around us daily; it is the disease and death of heart attack, strokes, diabetes, increased pressure, malignancy, meaning everything that happens in our environment, what happens to our neighbors; the disease of the population from infectious diseases and also the characteristics of the health care of the Republic of Serbia. The main priorities are preserving and improving the health of the population. It means prevention, so the hardest part of the job that we have to admit at this point, we're not doing well and controlling chronic mass non-infectious diseases, prevention and control of infectious diseases, which is much easier to achieve, also health care particularly sensitive groups. It also deals with the organisation of health care functions, integration, we say from the professional side, primary, secondary and tertiary levels, meaning, from health homes to top institutions, which deal with various levels of health care. The synchronised functioning of the state and private sector, we come up with one question and one problem that has been going through the discussion of many debaters today and to which I will return a little later. The establishment of a health care information system and what I think is most important for all of us, including citizens, is the organisation of financing health care with the aim of creating a sustainable health care system as it is today. We can say that in 2000, when we inherited it, it was at the edge of bankruptcy and that it was a problem that we have all these years more or less, but I think we have successfully solved. If it hadn't been solved, we are aware of that, but to find mechanisms to establish it sustainable, it is a basic guideline and one of the basic tasks and the very plan for the development of health care. The implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the plan itself will be within the competence of the Ministry of Health who should work with other partners who participate in the provision and analysis of health care from the Health Council, as the professional and advisory body selected by this assembly, to medical associations, medical chambers, the Serbian Medical Society, the NGO, who have all participated in, followed and had the possibility and criticism of the Health Development Plan. The fourth item was quite modest in the discussions. It has been stated that no specific budgets are needed in 2010, which does not mean that it is, so, that is, a plan that is already being implemented, many problems have already been made strategies and are in the financial frameworks of the Ministry of Health and the Republic Institute which we have adopted here, but in the future, given the challenges, it is certain that we have some additional funds waiting for us. This can be summed up in three things. One is that this plan goes right from basics, which is an analysis of the health situation, the needs of the population for medicines, our financial opportunities and what is most important, the restructuring of health care to a health system that will be more efficient. I will agree with all the debaters who have said that the private sector is not sufficiently involved in this health system. What I can say in general, as a finale for this document, is that it is a document of a general type that is precise enough to define the direction of development, but also sufficiently elastic to define more precisely the solution to the strategies of certain problems according to the current situation. As for the second Law we are discussing today, it is an amendment to the Health Protection Act, which in some ways does not solve the problem that we have today. I think we should make that clear, but at this point, it's the only cellular solution that will reduce the problem that we have. So, what's important, as many debaters have said before me, I'm going to repeat because of the doctors and other healthcare professionals who have been allowed to do it, in some ways correcting the injustices against those who have had the opportunity to work additionally, who have been involved in teaching and those who have not had the opportunity to work. If a legal solution was such that it did not show positive results in the life behind us, then it is fair to admit it, that it did not show results and then change it. There I can only commend the Ministry of Health, that what did not give the expected results to change. What's kind of my point of view, and I've always been against it, I think it's completely illogical, that all people who want to work make it impossible to work. So we're fighting to open new jobs and it's completely illogical for people who want to work within legal frameworks not to be able to do that. So in a society that will control and where it will be legal, I think our attitude everywhere where there is no conflict and interest should allow people to work through a legal health system or some other system, especially this applies to doctors and other highly sophisticated people who have invested a lot in their knowledge. It is a sin not to allow them the basic right guaranteed by the constitution to work. This legal solution is expected to improve the problem by equating the right, and I think that's how I heard it in the presentation, and I am convinced that it will not solve the problem. We have a problem that is much bigger, but that will increase the efficiency of our health system, that is what we expect and believe and expect of the promoter. My opinion is, I've said that many times where I was able to say that one of the biggest problems of our health system is its efficiency. Now I'm not talking about what we inherited and where we are right now, but now I'm saying that our health system is not effective and that we have to work very much on this. In my opinion, the introduction of competition of the private sector into the health system, but to be accompanied by a complementary form of health insurance, through different forms of insurance, is something that can increase the efficiency of the system. If we don't do this, we're left with a triple health care system, which honestly doesn't like change. He is well in many segments, and if he does not have sound competition that will be controlled, we will not solve this problem. As DS, we advocate the introduction of the private health sector, including the private sector in all other areas because we believe that this raises healthy competition. But there are two conditions we must take care of. One thing is that we need to take care of the financial sustainability of the system that must not be questioned by the uncontrolled introduction of the private health sector into public health. Another important thing, which we also advocate as a party, because we are a party to the social democratic orientation, is that a socially acceptable concept of health care must be maintained that will allow all citizens to have access to health care acceptable from a financial and professional point of view. Now I would refer to the discussions we heard here, which have opened many topics, and I think we will all agree that the law that was passed in 2005 has its advantages and disadvantages and that it is likely the time that comes and which shows that we are progressing both in the organisation and in the financing of health care, that this law also slowly becomes overcome and that, in the near future, it will have to change and adapt. What's important is that we define what we want, so there has to be a political consensus on what we want from our health system. The issue of health care, you all know, is a burning issue of all policies, both in Europe and worldwide. We have been witnessing very bile debates lately in one of the most powerful countries in the world, America, when the current administration changed the health system and health insurance. We are all aware that the health system as it is in America is not the happiest solution and is not socially acceptable to us. I've got a lot of countrymen who unfortunately went to Canada in the '90s, and they live there, and I can't say they live badly, they work there, but when they come here for a visit, I find out through the conversations that they've been to my place as friends, and they're going to see a dentist to solve their dental problems here, because it's very expensive in Canada. We have many examples from Europe where there has been a lot of wandering about the organisation itself, especially the introduction and the private sector. I remember very well one conversation I had in 2003, he was the director of home health, with representatives of the Simens and trade union organisations from Germany who brought us humanitarian aid. My question to them was, are you satisfied with your health system? What surprised me, the answer was, no, because they also have problems in the health care of pensioners. Not all of them are available, they've had their own private security affairs, and these are all the problems that one basic postulate carries today that no one has paid attention to. We have needs and we have opportunities. Needs are enormous. The possibilities are something that dictates where you will determine the limit to which you will raise your system. In America, you have a health care system where the financial situation is such that, as far as the technique itself is concerned, all institutions are much better equipped than we are, and all available to them, at least that's what the colleagues who have finished there and who are specialists there say, they don't mind doing a CT and a magnet, but the problem is who's going to read it. Service is something that costs money. Sometimes the technique itself isn't the only problem that comes up, and sometimes we have a problem with the services that someone has to do. We've heard a lot of stories here today, I have to say that citizens need to be told, and I believe that they do well, and they know, because health care is not free, away from it. So, health care is extremely expensive, but it's our job to provide health care to the largest number of residents at the highest level of quality within our financial capabilities. You have to admit it's art. Today all the discussions were in terms of criticism and criticism is always welcome, but the problem is when you're just criticising, and you're not offering a solution. What's the solution? Do you have a solution to what you're criticizing? I didn't hear that today. We've had criticism on the waiting lists, these waiting lists are working, and the waiting lists aren't working. Is it fairer that there are waiting lists, so that they are transparent, public, that at least you have insight into the reviews, or how much they are waiting for individual interventions, procedures or other procedures, or should leave everything to be non-transparent and left in the domain of suspicion of corruption. Whether everything should be left to private health insurance that will only take care of profits and will not take care of the social category of the health system. I don't think so. Perhaps a little criticism from my colleague Paji Momchilov, who in one segment of his discussion called some MPs to poor MPs. It's not Mr. Momchilov's manners, he's the president of the Health Committee whose member I am and we have bile discussions, but it's usually not like that. In a way, every time I meet Mr. Tomic Milosavljevic, I believe his emotions are working in some way and because of his emotional state, I will forgive him for expressing himself so much about us, because we are not poor MPs, I do not feel that way, but we are MPs who defend politics. So, the policy for which we received the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the last elections. For your policy that you led when your party took part in power, when you were minister, you received an evaluation in all elections since 2000, since you were no longer in power. Because that's what the citizens said. Everyone has the right to criticise, and that's always welcome. In this criticism, he should be self-critical, as citizens will decide in some of the next elections who will lead the country's policy, including health policy as part of that policy. What I am sure, and I believe a very large part of this hall, a very large part of the citizens, is that citizens no longer want to receive health care without listening to sirens that announce bombings, that they don't want to listen anymore, that they have medicines approved by Minister Bojic, who are of suspicious origin, that they don't want to go to cold homes of health and hospital, that they have to buy both syringes, and needle and cotton, but that they want a safe, sustainable health system in which they can be treated both today and tomorrow and 10 years from now, and that's the policy we offer to citizens. And I'm sure in the next election, we'll get support.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45371	Replica, Mr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to report for the replica caused by the fact that Mr. Muchenski said that most of us had criticised us, and we didn't give anything constructively. We're sorry you weren't in the O.R., or you didn't hear, and both my colleagues and I said there was no recognized major and basic problem of this society, which is a biological threat. I said that, as the situation changes, real reform. Which one? Bringing into the centre of primary health care and the application of post-benefit, cheap measures to promote health and prevention. If you didn't hear that, I apologize, and so did my colleagues. It's a solution, not tenders, non-transparents, where we don't know who's taking them, we don't see an evaluation, we don't see how much has been spent, we don't know what's been won, we don't know what this plan needs to define. As far as "poor" is concerned, I didn't tell you you were pathetic. It is a poor Parliament that adopts this document in this way. What's the matter with you? You're the one who messed up the policy with the plan. Read the definition. When you say it's general, it can be a health policy. Take the textbook, read it, that's all I'm pleading for. The DS problem is that it has not surprised a high-quality successor to this man who has long been demissioned and who does not enjoy the support of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45373	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Your MP group has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45374	I have to change the concept. Dear citizens, you have just seen a debate that is trying to hide and cloud the essence from you. Representative of the so-called The left populist options, the Social Democratic, are in favour of equating private and state. A representative in the image of the minister, almost eternal, that there is not one who is longer than he, whom they call a humane accident trader, a member of the right populist option, conservative, people, as it is called in Europe, defends the state concept as if it were the worst Bolshevik and communists. What's the point? The bottom line is the interests that this law and these eight and a half years will not change. There are three segments: state health, private institutions, where God forbid private institutions are mentioned, but only state institutions, and this is the private sector and there are you, citizens. Mr. Minister and Government to whom he belongs, he is obviously the Minister of State Health only, nor is he private, and even fewer citizens, because the essence is in money. I'm not a doctor, unlike the previous two speakers, but in money. Why is it all about money and why is everything hiding from us? We don't have that famous package of services we have to get for the money we're detaching. That package has been missing for eight years, and it won't be there, because the money is being financed by state health institutions. We have no investment and equality with the private health system, according to the system as it is throughout the EU and in normal countries: where the patient goes, there goes the money, your money, not theirs. It's simply big money, and it's always said that we're poor, only Albania separates less than we are. If that were the case, then we'd have a national health account long ago, but we don't, even though it's mentioned here for some reason, that according to that bill we don't have for health care, we're giving away 9.5% of GDP. That's over three billion euros. All research and evaluations say that the figure is much higher, Mr Milosavljevic, and that is why it does not form a national health account, so that the citizens of this country do not see them single out five billion euros for health care and have such health care. It's simply a matter of correcting a mistake from two years ago, which you admitted, and we can't help it. You've made a mistake, you're correcting it now, but it's only about the doctor. This doesn't matter to the citizens, the citizens will still have a bad favor for the huge money they spend. I'm sorry. Of course we can't vote for this law, but in order not to take the story in the other direction, it's essentially a huge amount of money going around in health care, the bottom line is that this money is hidden because it's about interests, and whether doctors are going to have extra work or not, it's just foam. Citizens of these changes won't get better health care. There's no "r" here from health care reform. After all, it is no wonder that the eight-year minister is not a health minister but rather a certain state structure, doctor, professor, etc. and will remain remembered in history as a man who led an interesting policy, and from which we all suffered damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45375	Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45376	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the first item of the agenda, on amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, I think it's quite said. What can be summed up is that this is, in fact, a harsh political imposition of the will of a kind of policy, which some MPs have already spoken of, that this undermines the credibility of the profession in the public's eyes, that it opens the door to corruption, that it will not be better health care for the citizens of Serbia. This is the essence of the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act. In this second part, there was little more talk about the second item of the agenda, i.e. the Plan for the Development of Health Protection of the Republic of Serbia. But before I say anything about it, just one piece of information that I was forced to ask the question of the minister -- the World Bank said that Serbia's health care looks like, what a degree of corruption is in that system. The health ministry ordered from an NGO, so Cesida, a research that eases the situation. It would be nothing unusual if this organization, called Cesid, consisting of two parts, the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, as an association of citizens, i.e. as an NGO and Cesid as a private enterprise. So, Mr. Minister, did you order this from Mr. Mark Blagojevic, the director of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the NGO, or did you order it from Blagojevic Mark, director of the private company? So who gave it? If it went through this part of Cesid as a private enterprise, then we should know when the tender was called, did some other research houses come forward in that tender, at which cost did the Ministry of Health give that research, etc.? Now I'd like to return to the health care development plan. If we go in line with the facts set out in the framework of the Plan of Development, that is, socio-economic health determinants, on page 6, we come to the fact that the latest survey on the structure of employees refers to 2008. Your research says 2,821,000 people work in Serbia. It's 2008. Mr. Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the situation in 2010? How many people work in 2010? Is that number down or up? I think he's seriously downed. Therefore, you cannot take such data on the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia and therefore create such a plan. On page 7, Mr. Minister, in the description of infectious diseases, you wrote them all, and what a trend of growth, which is these infectious diseases, you listed tuberculosis, morbilosis, diphtheria, polyomilitis, hiv infections, but you didn't write one thing that happened in 2009, you didn't tell us anything about the pandemic H1N1. Did something happen in the Republic of Serbia? Were there any deaths? What has the Ministry of Health done about it? You know that we criticized you at the beginning of that pandemic and that we made it clear to you that you had a year of time and warnings from the World Health Organization about what was coming. You have welcomed this pandemic without masks, without enough respirators and without vaccines. Then there was a tender and these vaccines were purchased for this new type of H1N1 virus based on a tender issued by the Republic Health Insurance Office. At first, there was talk of a dose of three million to eight. It began to come in succession to Serbia, and then there were dramatic warnings from those people who thought it was the right measure and the right way to stop this epidemic, and I am one of them, although in your previous address about the Consumers Act you incorrectly accused me of being against vaccination. On the contrary, Mr. Minister. You've been sending out all the wrong signals. At first, you said that all those who needed to receive that vaccine should be signed, and that those who would not receive that vaccine that they too should be signed. You've caused some suspicion. What would a person sign if it were a matter of extreme caution to a pandemic? The further fate of all this is that we in the country today have over 600,000 doses of these vaccines, which we don't know what we're going to do, whether we're going to give them to someone, whether we're going to destroy them, whether they're going to stay in Torlak, etc. So here, on page 7, you talked about everything, about infectious diseases, you just didn't say a word about this problem as if nothing had happened in the Republic of Serbia. On page 9, Mr. Minister, you're talking about the personnel structure, that's what this plan is all about. In the central part of the text, paragraph 3 shows that the proportion of administrative and technical workers employed in health care has been reduced to 25.5%. At the beginning of your term of office, in early 2002, that percentage was less than 29. Then you had a signal that in one health system, which countries in the environment, which in Europe, such a high percentage of administrative and technical staff does not exist. Did you do anything about it? You're not. We tried to point out to you at the end of an amendment that, if there is a health care development plan, that percentage should be reduced to below 15% by 2015, with jobs not being opened for such types of staff, but jobs will be opened for young doctors, dentists, pharmacists who are currently out of work. At the same time, that's the answer to Mr. Djura Muchenski. Here's a concrete proposal, what we're proposing. That, instead of 25% or 26% of technical staff by 2015, they are reduced to 15%, and young doctors are received. Therefore, the incorrect information is that we do not propose, propose and how good proposals, only whenever there is a public debate on such a document, then we do not have a talker. We have a monologue and it's very unpleasant, where they even fall in some way and personal insults, that we're ignorant, that we have no idea what we're talking about, etc. That's why there's no shift, and that's why there's no health reform. To move forward, on page 12 of the last paragraph, it is said that the capital investment document in the health care system is largely funded from the Republic's budget, the autonomous province's budgets, local self-government budgets, as well as donation funds. Mr. Minister, did the capital investments in Serbian health finance themselves and will they be financed from the loan? Gentlemen, in 2009, did we ratify the International Bank's 400m-euro loan for the reconstruction of clinical and hospital centres, Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Novi Sad? So why isn't there any of these loans in capital investment financing? What happened to those loans? Did we also take credit for forming a central information system and how far did we get into this project? So these are all questions that we don't have an answer to. Is it a small item of 400m euros for the reconstruction of these four clinical-patient centres? There's no mention of the plan. Maybe they didn't take it? Maybe nobody told us that. But let's move on...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45377	You're out of time. Thank you. National MP Milan Knezevic has a word. Your parliamentary group has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45378	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, we are already entering the last minute of debate on these two proposals and during different approaches and aspects of the same problem I do not know how and on which side to start this discussion. The essence of today's discussion at the first point is a close amendment to the Health Protection Act, which we have received and has nine members, and the second part of the discussion is actually when we look at the whole proposal of the previously adopted Health Protection Act in 2005. What's said, and I agree, these amendments to the law are one cosmetic and they refer to a narrow problem that should have been corrected. This problem, who was in progress, has seen it maybe in the last two or three years. The medical chamber also attacked the Ministry and the Minister with various arguments about the inconsistencies of Article 277 about putting in an unequal position teachers who had the right to work up to a third in private or in extra action, any expression to use, and other specialists who were equally quality and who could not work. The division into two groups of teachers who had the right and others, I can say, top specialists who were denied, created a little bit of an unfair relationship between their colleagues, and that part had to be corrected, so that these changes would eliminate these mistakes or the error that was made in that law and those discussions had been going on for almost two years. We have also heard discussions of individual MPs who support these changes, but also have an appropriate critical relationship with them. That's the other part of the problem with this law. So, no matter what one cut is related to one problem, supplemental work, it was absolutely necessary to do and bring it. Practically, this is a debug, who makes real mistakes and needs to correct the error if it is made. However, there is a bigger problem from the discussion, and this has been commented by many MPs with a clear argument, which concerns health care, from the evening clinics, waiting lists, to the non-existent basic package of services, so it is clear to all, it is clear to the Ministry and the Minister, that there are problems in the function of health care, which are health workers, who according to their conditions, and spatial and professional, are working in the best possible way to provide health services, and citizens who, on the one hand, who, because of the waiting list and fear that they represent some unfair treatment towards them, have little certainty towards the profession. The bottom line is that health care as a vital problem of every society, which is clear to all of us, requires some corrections, but what came from funding discussions and all that in health policy, clearly results in a change of the Law on Insurance and Change of the Health Act, others also discussed, directly and closely with the way of financing and the way of insurance. A colleague earlier said, surely, no matter what the law was, he had good solutions and bad ones and some future law, to be fair, he would have bad and good solutions, but it is important that bad solutions always change and that better solutions are corrected, that the time has come and that, in due course, according to the specific situation and many other possibilities of financial, organisationally necessary to move forward in the process of adopting a new insurance law, which will be much more practical and more correct and that will in an equal way resolve both private and state health. We must not have certainty either towards private health, and it is the state that creates both government and state to take care of the health of the population and all the elements in order to maintain both organisational and quality health care for the population. That's what I was going to say, as far as this part of the law on amendments to the law we've discussed so far. This second part or second point relating to the health care plan, I have a double approach here. I've got a lot of critical for this development plan. We heard, and I'm sure I agree with a lot of my colleagues. On the other hand, well, we've got some development plan, then I'm asking the question, that we should now, if we've got a health development plan, I expect to get from other ministries a plan to develop higher education, a plan to develop industry, a plan to develop agriculture. So we should also consider other segments of vital for this society in terms of appropriate plans. The approach was obviously small and wrong, which, however, when this development plan is adopted, needs a slightly bigger and cleaner, more open and more transparent debate. Let him do 20 of them, experts, one plan, he'll do it great. This plan when you look at it is an excellent seminar work by a doctor in social medicine. So you give him the task of doing a plan to develop health care, you say he needs 50 pages, to cover all the requirements, and this plan meets all these conditions -- footage of the situation, epidemiology, demographic moments, socio-economical, and not to read what all MPs saw. So we have an introductory part where we have a video of the situation, which we've all realized is really a gray area about health conditions in some areas -- chronic illnesses, white plagues, natalities, so what we're always talking about is when it's something about health care, and it's evident, that there's a big problem in that part of the country, and there's one strategy in the first place about the fight against the white plague, and then all of these organisational and health parts. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45379	I give the word to the MP Svetlana Stojakovic Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45380	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about two very important acts, a bill on amendments to the Health Protection Act and a proposal for a decision on a plan to develop health care for the Republic of Serbia. The plan to develop health care of the Republic of Serbia is a professional and political document that defines the basic objectives and directions of health care development in line with the overall development of society over the next five years. It is also an instrument for further development of the health care system. As a result of the right to health care is protected from fundamental human rights, and by putting the patient or user at the centre of the health care system, the main objectives of the plan have been defined, which are to preserve and improve the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia and the sustainability of the health care system. In order to achieve this, solidarity and equality need to be ensured, gender equality with the emphasis on sensitive groups. The healthcare system must provide accessible, accessible, integrated and quality health care, personnel development, sustainable financing, decentralisation of management and financing of healthcare. This plan is based on an analysis of the health status of the population, the need for a population to protect available human resources, material and financial opportunities. Also, the plan is based on the already adopted strategies and national programmes brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on a number of international documents brought under the auspices of the WHO. The plan defined priorities in the area of conservation and health improvement. The primary prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases that are the leading cause of disease, disability and premature death. A whole range of prevention programmes, cardiovascular control, cerebrovascular diseases, malignancies, diabetes prevention programs, mental health improvements are foreseen. Priority is also prevention and control of infectious diseases, as well as health care of particularly sensitive groups of the population, women in reproductive age, infants, young children, school children, youth and old people, persons with disabilities, working-active population in relation to professional trauma and professional illness, and marginalised population groups. The second group of priority activities are envisaged by this plan as priorities in the field of organisation and functioning of health care, which are primarily integrated healthcare and higher levels of integration of primary, secondary iterative health care, as well as territorial and administrative decentralisation of the system, both in terms of the network and in terms of finance, as well as the synchronous functioning of the state and private sector. Strengthening the role of the Institute and the Institute of Public Health, improving primary health care, with the aim of solving 80-85% of health problems in first contact with the selected physician. It is therefore necessary that the largest number of citizens, 90% of the total population, have their chosen physician. The prerequisite for the implementation of these objectives is to improve the skills and skills of healthcare professionals through continuous education, the introduction of guides, good clinical practices and standardised procedures in the field of prevention and treatment, restoring resources, introducing new technologies, improving home treatment and care. The plan also provides for the improvement and functional integration of non-patient and hospital emergency medical care, the definition of a basic package of health services provided from compulsory health insurance funds, the improvement of the reference health care system, the development of daily hospitals, as well as the capacity for the patient's palitative care in terminal stages of the disease. It is also planned to improve the partnership between the state and private sectors, as well as to lease free capacities in state property. What is particularly important to highlight, as regards health care personnel, is the development of a strategy for human resources development in the health system, as well as the development of a plan for education of health care professionals, and in line with the needs of the health system. Also, it is planned to create an integrated information system, as well as a new way of funding institutions, both at the primary and secondary levels. From today's discussion, we could conclude that the opposition has said a number of objections to this plan, that it is too general, without the real characteristics of the plan, without clearly defined objectives, normised and quantified, which should be achieved in a defined period of time, that this plan is based on existing strategies, national plans and programmes that are implemented in different time periods. However, we must bear in mind that the health system is only one segment of society firmly linked to everything else and that its development depends on the general development of society, so we must consider this plan as open to the introduction of new strategies and plans. The continued careful monitoring and analysis of realisation can identify possible weak points, assess the sustainability of individual solutions and, if necessary, redefine certain objectives in order to meet the efforts set out in the plan. The second law, which we are talking about today, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which allows for equalisation of the conditions for supplementary work for all healthcare professionals. Namely, a healthcare professional, a health associate or another person employed in a health care institution, which makes up a team with healthcare professionals, can perform additional work in his healthcare institution where he has a work contract, in another health institution or private practice outside of regular working hours, and for a maximum period of up to one third full-time. The healthcare professional shall conclude a supplemental work contract with the employer where the supplementary work is carried out. The supplementary work contract must be concluded in order to provide health services not covered by health insurance, to provide services covered by compulsory health insurance, provided that the health care institution cannot otherwise provide a coma, as well as health care for persons who do not have insurance status. The reasons for this law are numerous. The problem of too long waiting lists is noticeable, then the lack of personnel of individual specializations in certain areas of the Republic and the dissatisfaction of healthcare professionals with a further work solution so far. As a doctor in primary health care, I am often a witness to the entirely justified dissatisfaction of citizens who, although insurance workers, are unable to receive a health care service within an acceptable time. Often their checks and interventions are scheduled for a month, two, three, even longer. They are all equally concerned about their health, and only a small number of citizens are able to carry out the necessary checks in private offices, while most of them cannot afford it. These amendments and amendments to the law will reduce waiting lists. Health services will increase, improve quality of work. In certain areas of the Republic, there are insufficient staff of certain specializations, and such engagements can be provided by missing cadre. On the other hand, all healthcare professionals and associates are allowed to work and increase their incomes if they so wish. This is a good solution, because it bridges the identified problems and the ZES parliamentary group will support these proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45381	People's Messenger to Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45382	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say at the very beginning that the DS has never before exercised executive power in the Ministry of Health, nor has it had the opportunity to implement reforms as we know it and how we do it, but we support all efforts so far and the results of the work achieved by the Resort Ministry of Health led by Tomica Milosavljevic. What I'm still trying to say is that the DS respects the private health sector that so far in Serbia is not even with the State Health Resolution, and we believe that normalisation of the private sector is this kind of exit from this situation, which is currently in conflict with the associations of doctors of private practice, with colleagues who open private practices and with state institutions, where many doctors work in the afternoon in some private offices. I can say that by amending this law, all doctors are allowed to finally work in that overtime of their work. I think that's good. I don't think the doctor has a chance to make extra money for his family, except that he can only heal, unlike many other professions that bring certain income to their families in the afternoon. What I think is a personal way out of all of this is to introduce health insurance to another health insurance company, to specify the kind of health care. There are different types of insurance in different countries. I'll let you know of one thing, given that I spent two years in Switzerland and doctored there, that there's a simple type of insurance that costs 400 francs, that there's a semi-private insurance costing 500 francs and there's a private insurance that costs 700 francs. You will agree that this kind of money for one of the richest countries in the world is not nearly as big as many other countries single out, and with that kind of insurance, many patients and patients have the opportunity to treat themselves in whatever institution they want in their country. I think it is a solution that the Presevo insurance patient can reach Belgrade, Nis and be automatically examined in a state or private office. I think it's one of the solutions to the additional health reform system that's ahead. What I would see as a professor of the Medical Faculty and the head of the Surgical Department at the Nis clinic, one anomaly, is that in the desire to be a democratic health ministry, and also the Republic Security Office, they allowed many smaller centres to question special tenders for very large sums of money for certain medical devices, medical equipment and my opinion and the proposal to the ministry is to centralize it, because we are a poor country and there is a possibility that this tender documentation is done from one center. Because it's so much easier when you order 10 or 20 magnetic resonances than to have a clinic in Nis or Belgrade. It's a lot easier when you call a tender for implants in just one center called the Ministry of Health. It's easier for public control. It's easier to control the very Republic Health Insurance Fund. I think it's one good thing, not to mix it up that at one clinical center we have the artificial hips of one manufacturer, while in another we have quite another. This is just one well-intentioned proposal, and I think it's possible to do it. As far as your proposal for a health care development plan is concerned, I can say that it is good and in a domain where you mentioned the policy of enrolment in college that it is not yet synchronised between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, that it absolutely must be in the coalition, that it can't be that our doctors after the university's graduation, since I'm a doctor, since I have a chance to conduct exercises and exams with a lot of smart and good children, that these children after their studies are finished are too happy if they're commercial travelers of some pharmaceutical houses, which is humiliating for someone who's 25 years invested in this medical college. I think that entry and restrictive policies at medical schools should be slightly easier synchronised with the Ministry of Health. We almost had an example of Mr. Boyic's private university, the American University, where the Ministry of Education's permission was granted, which was in full collegiate with the health ministry's regulation. As a Member of the DS, I am also a private school as well as I am for private health, but with strict control of the Ministry of Health, registration quotas that would be given together with the Ministry of Education, otherwise they would be faced with an additional accumulation of medical staff that Serbia and this number of residents cannot bear. Another anomaly, not so much in the health sector, more education, but it's about health care, especially in clinical cases where you get your PhD, means the person who graduated from medical school at 25 and enrolled in doctoral studies according to the Bologna reforms. You have a situation where this young colleague of 27, literally, completes his doctoral dissertation and declares him a doctor of medical science. My suggestion is that we should never allow clinical cases to be allowed by doctors without complete specialization, to think they're doing doctoral studies. Some research projects yes, but my dear Members in the health sector know that experience is very important, that it takes many years for a doctor to search and become a good expert in his profession. Finally, I want to tell you exactly about the experiences I have gained with my two-year stay in Switzerland, that we need a universal information system in all clinical centres, because it is unacceptable in poor Serbia to have a patient who comes to the Nis Clinical Centre from Vranja or Presevo, with an instructional diagnosis and previous tests done in Vranja or Presevo, a laboratory, ultrasound, scanner, magnet and all other diagnostic methods that cost our country very much, and then, in Nis, we do it again, so if we can't see that patient in Nis, we send him to Belgrade, where they're doing the same diagnostic methods for the third time. I believe that the principle of a single patient's medical record is necessary, which would be tied to all clinical centres, where for Mr. Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, if he showed up in Nis, we would have his medical records code and we would have all the generalities of his health at our hospital. It is unnecessary to do additional analyses that are unnecessary and burdensome to our budget. Once again, slowly and I'm done, the DS supports everything you've done so far. As a university professor, I can say that you have improved the standard of doctors and the standard of treating patients in Serbia, unlike in 2000, when it was disastrous and humiliating for everyone. I have to tell you that for 10 years, from 1990 to 2000, Serbia's health system was a social component and a sector that calmed the tension in society, and there was a collapse that after 2000, we wanted to admit it or not, but it did get on some feet. The DS supports this in the hope that, in the coming period, we will function better and have the opportunity to exchange some of our opinions for the better functionality of our health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45383	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used the right set out in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. The word has our minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45384	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for this rich debate this entire day on the Health System Development Plan and the Proposal to amend the Health Protection Act. I think it was good to dedicate this day to putting forward different attitudes and opinions, not only on solutions that are planned, but on many others. With your discussions, you have touched the health system many times in a very serious way. I'm sure no one had a bad intention. Unfortunately, in most criticism, regardless of what I've been trying to do all these years, deeply thinking about what I hear in the National Assembly, to find out what it is constructive when I listen to some MPs and what it is a grain of salt that changes the system for the better, it is indisputable that there can be no representative of the will of Serbian citizens who think ill of the health system, I have to say, unfortunately, that in some discussions, I have failed all these years. I am sorry that there was a number of MPs who were very destructive, perverse and negative. Namely, I can understand the criticism and she is welcome, when the criticism that is constructive, which is behind it is intending to fix something. In that sense, it must always come from facts. On the side of the impressions and the assessment, if someone here today in this building says -- a long-lost system, a wrong system, a broken system, unresolved system issues, then I can only think that he's strayed into a time machine and actually thinks of a completely different time. I'm going to ask the President of the Assembly to allow me to copy a simple piece of paper and give it to you tomorrow when the session begins. The paper reads -- Serbia's ranking according to the basic categories. This was published on the website of one of the newspapers on 1 February 2010, and I would not like to advertise, ours and this is from the World Economic Forum, an analysis by the World Bank for 133 countries. When you look at those ranks, then, believe me, we can all be proud together, first of all, I mean those 140 thousand people who work in this country and who listened to you today. They listened to what you said about them, about those wearing white coats, which are huge numbers. There are also, of course, black coats because corruption is a disease that devours Serbian society and the health system, unfortunately, is not spared. But we fight it as hard as we can and can. Serbia ranks 46th out of 133 countries only in the health system and primary education. Look at those ranks, take a good look at them, because it's an analysis, now nine years later. So let me say why the plan now, and correct something that was covered in inaccuracies and inaccuracies. I want to believe it was an accident or a crash. The health system development plan is a serious progress in our parliamentary practice and in our health system. This plan is the first health care development plan brought by the Serbian Parliament ever. I did not propose it, it was proposed by the Health Council of Serbia, whose Council is delegated to members from the most prominent institutions of the health care system. Then why now? In 2005, Serbia received system laws in the field of health. It is a regulated area of medicines, medical resources, chamber areas, health employees and for the first time independent, autonomous, professional chambers – medical, pharmaceutical, dental, biochemistry, sisterhood. The Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act, these are system laws, these are rules, and they, these laws, are predicted to form chambers and they are formed. When? In 2007, the U.S. When chambers, together with other institutions, made proposals for the Health Council, the Health Council was elected. Do you know where? Of course you know, here in the Serbian Parliament. This Council, after its election in 2008, worked for a year to come up with a plan that will be older than the mandate of one Assembly and one Government, which will, when they are brought to bridge the policy and throw it up to the next term of the Assembly, in which some other people will probably sit, a large number of you as successful, parliamentary, active members of the National Assembly of Serbia, but it will apply as the mandate of the Health Council will be longer than the mandate of the Government and the Assembly, and show that there is something that is more important than what you have said today and what I am saying now. More important is the continuity of something that is our common good. Serbia's health system is mutually well, it has come to be this good and rich and diverse because for decades our parents invested in the system, in times that were times of the promised system, which promised many things. For socialism, two main alibis have always been in Serbia, one was education, another was health care. It had to be provided and well that it was, because if it hadn't been, we wouldn't have succeeded today to continuously reduce infant mortality, and this is considered the most sensitive quality of work in one system and to continuously reduce maternal mortality in terms of pregnancy and childbirth. I'm going to do a little depression because the famous H1N1, a pandemic in a context that's not good, but I'm going to repeat, this virus took the lives of ten pregnant women and their unborn children last year. Don't let yourself, it's irresponsible to talk about it -- it wasn't, it wasn't, it's not, it's made up. No, it's a big stupid thing to say -- it wasn't made-up, it's not, because ten pregnant women lost their lives because of that viral infection, and two-thirds of the sick people from 20 to 60 years old, were already completely healthy. So when you talk about vaccines, it's good, you learned, it's not millions, but 800,000 is bought and paid. Good. Vaccination lasts until October 31st. Whoever stands out here differently, since it was here among you ladies and gentlemen, a lot of those who are either directors of a health institution, or their spouses are directors now of a health care institution or are very active in the health system years ago, some know what it looks like to be a minister in a government, so make decisions or be a member of the trust's board and make decisions. However, those decisions then left the system just like that from that time machine that mentions the word – broken, but let's not go back to it. When we talk about the system and its financing, know that the contributions in Serbia pay 3,696,576 insurance, for themselves and for members of their families. That displaced persons and temporarily displaced 61,798, and that in Serbia at this time per article 22. The law practically solidly provides health care for those who do not have their own income and they, unfortunately, have 1,200,000. When we talk about how the system should be and how we plan to look at it, your comments that there is not enough private sector involved in providing services, of course the answer is mine, it is not enough. Should there be an increased share of private services in the future, should the quality of the service be the main, not the ownership structure? Sure, yeah. Where's the evidence for that definition? Well, 150 people have been operated in the last few months at the first private clinical hospital center in New Belgrade. Hyperbaric medicine is provided by a private facility. The rehabilitation of speech provides a private institute for the rehabilitation of speech, dialysis provides several centres that are private, 150 private doctors signed a contract with the Fund to write prescriptions on the health insurance burden. With this latest decision, the chosen doctor will be able to be from private health institutions of private practice, but we can't pay for it either. We can't pay for it, because it would be irresponsible to promise something that isn't sustainable. I thank you in the broadest way that you have spoken because it has shown how much you understand how difficult my job is and how difficult it is for those who are trying to manage this health system to have 370 seats in state property and three or four thousand private-owned places, and with a constant effort to push something forward and move. Is efficiency ideal? It's not. But the fact is that Serbia made 7,000 magnets in 2000 and 2002, in 2008 49,000. The fact is that it was installed in 2002 in 340 stents, and in 2008 it was 13,400. The fact is that thousands of people waited for a pacemaker only in Belgrade and in one year died because it was not installed, and now there are no waiting lists for the intervention. It is true, there are waiting lists for highly sophisticated procedures, first of all to ensure equality and accessibility, and they are much shorter than they were, and you could find out about it much more, who was interested, and now you can check it out, both at Batuta and the Ministry of Health, where we do an analysis of quality every year, and we present it at the National Conference to improve quality. This is what those who come from health institutions know very well, and today there have been many who have debated here, and that they come from this system that is common property, common good. The way he is, he's ours. The plan is the best that we, ladies and gentlemen, can do in these five years, I'm sure someone who will be better, smarter, and make it better. There was a comparison here at one point with the English. Now I am fortunate to have the opportunity to speak a sentence from the congregation’s pay phone and quote one of the great 19th - century men, who once spoke in the congregation. They told him – sir, I think Milovan Milovanovic would have said it differently – my brothers, such as you English, so am I, Watchstone. That's what that big man said at the time, and this is his marriage. I'll get back to the plan. The plan is broad enough for the current moment and for five years to come and flexible enough, is not ideal. There's no ideal plan. It is true that in 2002 and 2003 we had to start planning before the system laws were adopted and big plans were made, because the house would collapse. If we'd waited then, the house would have collapsed, we wouldn't have had anything to take pictures of this many shots, or to start a tobacco control activity, or to start prevention programs. In this year, you know, nearly 40,000 healthy women with two digital mammographers in Serbia were examined in just seven months. In history, Serbia has never done more than 25,000 diagnostic mammography. So, do everything that you can by your efforts, even if it's sometimes awkward when you're an opposition, why don't you make an alliance about something that's undeniable? I can't have someone from the position of complaining, and a few years ago he ran Belgrade's city health system, as the city's health secretary, and it was run by oho-ho. You can't really talk about it. You don't really care about the system you come from, the system you work in, who you come from. Now let's deal with the law a little bit. Is that a referendum question? No, a referendum doesn't solve this kind of thing. There are political history and such examples, I'll give you one. Hungary has issued a referendum and asked citizens – are you to pay for participation in health care or not to be paid? Of course, not to pay, the government has fallen, the new elections have been called because the health fund's bankruptcy has come within six months. It's a serious question of sustainability, and I'm sure with this plan and your discussion we open one door that provides perspective, there have been words in some discussions and comparisons with, say, the Swiss insurance system and others. The health insurance that we have is the mandatory health insurance of a solidarity type and we have at least in Europe, and I am sorry now that the speakers who have mentioned it so far are gone, from Antarctica to the Caucasus only Albania has less. Believe it or not, that's right. When transparency was mentioned, everyone knew some numbers and then spoke nontransparently. How untransparent, if you know some numbers. Just because they disagree, it just means that there's a statistical yearbook as one, a report by one institution as another, if you take data for 2008 in making a plan, you certainly have to take the data backwards, you can't take the data ahead or at that point. It's a matter of technique. So it's better to have a plan the way it is than not to have any. It is a great achievement to have a plan that goes beyond the borders of the government and parliament's mandate, which crosses the political borders and will allow the next assembly of parliament and government to make an even better solution. In 2005, laws were passed in a country that is in transition and I thank one debater who said two sentences in one place that I would agree with immediately, of course. One is that, of course, there is a transition moment and, of course, understands that in transition you have to question some solutions. Is the 2005 Law, with a solution that started in 2008 good? He was good, because he brought a fiscalization. Look how hard it is to make order in cash flows when you want to fiscalize as executive power to implement in a sector, it's not that easy. Today in Serbia's health system when you pay something legally, you have to get an account for it, whether it's a state or private institution. So the fiscalisation was consistently implemented and she had the result of knowing that the money flow of those services paid for is about five billion dinars per year. I'm going to explain it very easily and plastically to you, and it's important for that, if you want to solve the problem, it seems that you're simply hiring teams that will operate on the heart at work and if they're effective enough, they'll do it in sufficient numbers. However, in a country that has left itself with regard to prevention, risk factors of behaviour, in a country that has been under international sanctions for years and in serious problems of sustainable financing, you have an explosion of mass non-infectious diseases and it is necessary to disrupt your doctors, that instead of resting on Saturdays and Sundays, to walk around Ada, to deal with something that is better for them and their families, they come and work. If you pay them under the Labour Act, then you will pay only a third of the salary, and in the institution of supplemental work you can pay half of that fee that the hospital made for the intervention. Then the Insurance Fund pays a cardiosurgery to do 500 operations in one year more Saturdays and Sundays with a regular waiting list, where patients who have their medical criteria come in, and that's what the Fund pays them, and that's the mechanism that allows such payment. If you ask every doctor, but to be honest, he'll say, it's a very good measure that I can do something extra and extra for whoever wants extras. Let's be honest, look at each other inside and you'll wonder how to turn to someone I think is good or best, where he works. These are legal ways of treating, avoiding the gray flow of money and avoiding the doctor leaving and opening a blanket shop, making money for his family. What was wrong? In this year and a half, what was meant to lead to the state's institution having greater motivation, agility and operationality to compete with the private sector, happened not so significantly, it freed jobs less than 200 in the whole country, and between 300 and 400 doctors shared working hours and it was insufficient. We evaluated it after a year and said, "This isn't good." He should give freedom to a professional, let him decide where to work, and that's something that a number of MPs told the truth that it doesn't exist anywhere. No, it exists everywhere. There's no such thing as complete division and ban. Do you know where it was tried? Here in this hall, not exactly in this room, it was then the Federal Assembly, on September 15, 2000, was to begin to apply the order of the health minister, which ordered that a man must sign off on that day whether he works in a state or private facility. That's not a good solution. It's a good thing you have a professional who has a chance to work, who you control, who the chambers are chasing about quality and license, who has a series of fences and who will tomorrow have private supplementary insurance to pay for it. Finally, I'll tell you what else is another practical fact you need to know. There is a huge problem in European countries with the shortage of those who do their job best. We now have a cardio surgeon who worked in Kamenica, then in Belgrade, then packed a suitcase nicely, no longer works in Kamenica or Belgrade, no, he only sleeps on Saturdays and Sundays in Novi Sad, Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays operating in Skopje, Thursdays and Fridays in Podgorica and then flies back and you can't bring him back. You can't pay him in a way that requires you to have him. We have two other cardio surgeons preparing to leave Kuwait for a higher salary. In 2006, we increased the salary as much as we could and it was 40% higher that year than any other social sector. In the last five years, the health system has reduced non-medical staff significantly and behaves as life-savingly as possible in employment policies, thousands and thousands are employees of doctors and nurses. Of course, it would be easy for you to tell me if one of you would sit in the place of the Minister of Health and ask him, would you hire all the unemployed doctors? Tomorrow they'd be invited by all the unemployed sisters, too, right away. The question arises, and what in the next month, when the Health Insurance Fund, which didn't even have an insurance base until a few years ago, so 3,000 people had double records and received sick benefits in two places, and seven years ago in continuity, and earned profits on our joint assets. You have health insurance that works in spite of everything. Remember, in a year of crisis, in a neighbouring country, there are 7.5 billion euros in debts to medicines between hospitals at this time. Yes, it's an exact figure, and the government budgeted 350m euros in July to deliver insulin and an infusion solution. I think it's a little easy to jump over what we have, and it happens to me very often that someone comes up to me and says, "God, Professor, Minister, Doctor, I've been in a home of health or a hospital, so it's not what it says in the paper or it's not what I thought it is, or I've had a great experience with that and that." I'm afraid the increasing tendency is that the impression that is created is more important than what are facts. So the supplemental work is far from the ideal solution, but this is what I spoke about a little bit as a direct consequence of it and that because of the application of other laws, the Law on Education, the Law on the Army, at one point in the last year, were both teachers and military persons. But we say, this is a transition, we have to change the laws because we've seen it can be better, we give you a proposal, we adopt it and we move on. Will the future be the main focus towards involving the private sector, surely. How soon, it will depend on economic power. The happiest will be Serbia's health minister when he speaks to MPs one day, I hope very quickly, someone else certainly, younger, more capable, faster, smarter, and he may turn to you at some point, regardless of how much time we have here, many of you longer than I do, but let's not do that, and who's going to say, there are no people who don't have their own income, but the budget pays so little because everyone's health insurance. It will be a moment in which Serbia has economic power. Why am I an optimist? Because when I started doing this job, Serbia had barely $90 per capita for everyone in the health system. Today, however, it reaches 400 euros per capita, more or less. When you keep talking about it, national health accounts, so they are primarily a methodology and data collection technology, and that doesn't have half of the EU countries, we have, they're not ideal, but they're decent and they're in Batut and they're available on the site. They are our indicators from which we see that of all the money spent in Serbia's health, two-thirds is public money. So one third is our private one. I will end it, the fact is that the average citizen of Serbia spends more money on alcohol and tobacco in a year than anything he buys from drugs and pays for participations. I really thank you for contributing today to distracting the citizens of Serbia from their health care system that they should be proud of, not ashamed of. I call on all 140,000 people who work in state and private institutions to take a good look at their white coat and not to let their cheeks get dirty and for a small number of shadow-throwing things. We'll do our job fair and square, and I expect it to be paid fairly, but to make it sustainable for the long term. It's the only way we're gonna leave our kids a country that's prosperous, that has hope and that doesn't send their children out, but keeps them here, because the best thing this country needs is this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-19-0.u45385	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act and the Proposal for a Decision on a Health Protection Development Plan for the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I thank all MPs who took part in constructive suggestions and debates, especially thanks to Mrs. Pavlovic and Mr. Minister once more. Allow me to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, suspended the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly for holding the new Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session in 2010, called for Wednesday 20 October 2010 at 10.00 hours. The session is otherwise called for the urgency of considering the draft law in the previous agenda. The third session of the Second Regular Session will continue at the conclusion of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session. So, we continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you again.
