ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40911	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the sittings. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall and that there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Djordje Milicevic, Esad Djudjevic, Riza Halimi, Laslo Varga and Milica Radovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, to present the draft law on the prevention of labour abuse and the draft law on volunteering, together with representatives of the proposing Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the sittings are attended by: Snezana Lakicevic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Radmila Bukumirović-Katić, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rajka Vukomanovic, Labour and Social Policy adviser and Snezana Bogdanovic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. I welcome them. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Crime at Work (sumption in detail) was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarović to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. I hope the minister, who I suppose is now more rested than last night, will still have enough hearing to accept this amendment. Yesterday we talked about it, and it was among other things your explanation, that the abuse, it was physical, it was psychic, always implies the fear of whoever was the victim of the abuse. The fact that the victim of abuse suffers from fear, of course, is the best evidence and basis for the fact that there must be a way to prevent abuse can be initiated even without the consent of one who suffers abuse. It is said in Article 13 that in addition to those who suffer abuse, the protection proceedings can also be initiated by a union representative, a person responsible for safety and health at work, a security officer, a safety and health committee, etc., but then there is one fence, an addition to a sentence where it says - only with the consent of an employee who considers himself exposed to abuse. I asked the amendment to delete it, because I believe that the consent of the victim of abuse cannot be a condition for the initiation of a procedure that should prevent and stop that abuse. It is clear to you that the victims of abuse, primarily because of the fear of additional retribution, will often refuse to give such consent. So the question is, is it essential for you to eliminate abuse in the workplace, or is the point being that it lasts? I truly regret that you have not accepted any of the previous amendments and that you have not established the obligation of any employee who learns about abuse at work; therefore, not when he suffers, but when he sees that another worker or group of workers abuses someone at work. You had to make a commitment. You didn't do it, and now as a special condition for the initiation of the procedure, you're looking for the consent of the victim. I'll refer you to the analogy with criminal law. You can never ask for consent to initiate criminal proceedings from someone who is a victim of a felony. Imagine that for attempted murder you seek the consent of whoever the victim is to initiate the procedure or that, for example, from someone who was the victim of the theft you seek consent to initiate the procedure. If you sincerely want to eliminate abuse, then you will accept this amendment, because it will essentially change nothing in the law. It would be good for you as representatives of the Ministry if you have some counterargument to make that argument, because what you wrote in your explanation why you don't accept doesn't make any sense. You say that the right to protection against abuse is a right to work and work, and these rights always come true at the request of employees. He says – until other persons can initiate such a procedure without his consent. Is it your goal to prevent abuse or not, and in what way will someone’s right to work be threatened if someone else sees someone suffering abuse initiates a procedure to prevent this abuse from happening in the future? An additional argument is what you're saying would be a possible source of abuse of rights. Well, this law is also a possible source of abuse of rights, and the Criminal Code is a possible source of abuse of rights, because it's always a false application, but whoever falsely reports will answer, and it's in the law. Article 10 states that one who abuses the right to protection against abuse also responds. So there are no fundamental or procedural, let's say, procedural problems that you don't accept. I really hope you'll give an adequate explanation, since what you've given is not, or that you will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40913	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic submitted the 15th amendment together. Mr. Lazic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40914	Thank you. The proposed amendment is almost the same as the previous one submitted by Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic. It actually specifies the time limit within which an employer can accept a proposal for mediation in situations defined by Article 14 of this proposal. The Government, or the Proposer, rejected this amendment, and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted it. These members of the bill are particularly important in the context of a phenomenon called vertical abuse at work. It actually occurs in about 55% of cases, according to some studies. This involves abuse ranging from employer level to employee and joke of religion. On the other hand, horizontal abuse is represented in approximately 45% of cases, according to some studies, and occurs between workers in the same position on the hierarchical scale. One of the key things is education, of course, in addition to legislation, in order to successfully deal with this problem, given its complexity. In other words, the more known and said it is, the easier it is to prevent and easier to recognize abuse at work. This problem has its own medical, and sociological, and legal and psychiatric- forensic component. I think it speaks of how complex it is and how necessary it is to work on education in order to fully understand what it is to do in these cases. Some analyses suggest that in fact, the most mobinga has a percentage in the state administration and in the defence sector, then in education, health care, etc. Countries, such as Sweden, which have a rich tradition of human rights protection, have gone the farthest and abuse at work are actually treated as a kind of crime. So, serious and organized education, as I said, is a tool for society to effectively oppose this evil. It must be available for both employers and employees, so that the entire chain is covered. Today, work for wages must not be turned into a kind of modern slavery with a humiliating position of employees. I'm afraid employees who seek the protection of their rights in court will face many problems, and I think it is best to illustrate the objections that come from Europe in relation to the recent reform of the judiciary. The abuse of work, of course, is everywhere in the world; perhaps there is something less quantitative about us, given that we are much faster out of work and that much shorter is actually staying in the workplace. Since the beginning of the year, 45,000 people have lost their jobs, and the National Employment Service data suggests that 155,000 people have lost their jobs from July 2008 to 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40915	Dear Members of the National Assembly, before we continue the work, allow me to inform you that part of our today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly is accompanied by the participants of the Diplomatic Academy "Koča Popović" in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that: Mirjana Milosavljević, Aleksandar Subotić, Slavisa Orlović, Dragan Blažjević, Dusan Vujović, Bojan Grbić, Nemanja Grbić, Stefan Drašić, Veljko Jelenković, Zorko Kuzmanovic, Mirko Kuzmanovic, Predrag Mandić, Milosć, Miloš Šošić, Bojan Nasjavić, Ivana Niković, Filip Žalić Žalić Žalić, Velko Piljak, Velko Simić, Miloš Stipić, Miloš Stipić, Maja Šošić, Miloš Šoš, Miloš Šoš Šović, Miloš Šović Šović, Bojana Šović, Božić, Bojan Djažić, Marija Žović, Marija Žović, Vladimir Žović, Mražović, Vladimir Živić. Let's give our guests a round of applause. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40916	Don't rush, there's not much left to go. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted on behalf of the SRS amendment to Article 16. This is about editing the text. I've already explained to you that the laws shouldn't be too large, you've boasted that this law has only 38 members. What is essential is that the same provisions should never be repeated in several members of the law. That's exactly the explanation. So we ask that the first position in article 16 be deleted, which says that the mediator may be designated, or elected person who enjoys the trust of the parties in the dispute. The previous article, in its third position, therefore, in Article 15(3), already states that employees exposed to abuse and employees charged with abuse are contractually determined or elected by persons to conduct the mediation process. So, if an intermediation is agreed, it is clear that the next position that says the mediator will be defined as a person who enjoys the confidence of the parties in the dispute, because it is assumed that if they agree, they will certainly not determine someone they do not trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40917	Thank you. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 17th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill, so you can from the time of the parliamentary group. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40918	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it remains for me to thank Mr. Minister for accepting this amendment. We have foreseen this amendment that, for justified reasons, the deadline for ending the abuse procedure can be extended to a maximum of 30 days. You didn't see that through this law. We've seen this lack of law, and that's why you accepted this amendment. That's a good thing, Mr. Minister, that you've accepted to introduce a new position in article 19 of this law. It's not good, Mr. Minister, which, I think, seems very easy, you've gone over some amendments to the article. Six and seven. In yesterday's afternoon discussion, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia explained very precisely why it is important for these amendments to be accepted. I think there's room, time to take another careful look at our amendments. So in Article 6, we predicted that even an employer could be a victim of mobbing, considering that there must be this equality, because equality is a constitutional category. On the other hand, in Serbia, there is an ever-increasing political mobing. That's what some media are talking about today. Today, there is a statement from the Serbian Journalists' Union, which believes that the Mobing Act is important (and the Democratic Party of Serbia considers it a very important law), but the Serbian Journalists' Union fears that certain provisions of this law are not clear and precise enough and that there is an obvious mobing in the media, which is true. I call you again, Mr. Minister, I say, there is time and opportunity to carefully consider our amendments to Articles 6 and 7, which are key to this law, and to accept some of these amendments. Only then will this law be complete, better and more applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40919	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment that I filed on behalf of the SRS best says how real it is to the Ministry and the minister to protect the employer and the employee. In Article 21, I provided for the possibility that, in addition to regulating the relationship between the employer and the employee, there would be no reruns of abuse in the same way and made a broader framework that no similar things of abuse could come to the future subject of the debate of the employer and the employee or subject of consideration by the person in charge of the dispute between them. I asked that the words "or similar" be added after the words "disfellowshipping the possibility of such" were added. In addition to excluding the possibility of abuse in a specific case, I added the words “or similar, ” since abuse can be on a similar basis. It can open other processes of mutual relations between the employer and the employee, and this sentence stops or interrupts these processes. If we know that the employer has in some way abused an employee or employee and that this dispute has been resolved by intermediation and may happen again because of a similar situation, I think it would be a waste of time to reopen the dispute. What is proof that the minister, the ministry and the legislator of this law do not want a concrete, precise definition of the employer's relationship - the employee is also the answer to my amendment given by the government as an explanation for not accepting it. It is said this way, for the sake of the public, and this public who is in the O.R.: “The amendment of the MP is proposed that the agreement also applies to the ban on the likeness of the abuse.... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” The broader framework of abuse is the objective of this amendment. Therefore, it extends the framework of a mediator who will have an obligation that anything similar to what he has already done will not be in the rerun. This: “The law prohibits any type of work abuse or work abuse, and if such behaviour occurs in the process of intervening the party in the dispute, they can agree on how to solve a specific case of abuse rather than the possible future similar behaviours that represent abuse. “ Is it not logical that no abuse should be at work? Whether it's similar or not, whether it's concrete or not, we're tasked with preventing this law from being abused, not whether it's a rope or a wider relationship, which is the definition of abuse. What is worse, you have called for Article 5 of this Law, you say: “This proposal is excessive, imprecise, restrictive, because the parties commit not to make certain types of abuse in the future, which is contrary to the general prohibition of any type of abuse prescribed in Article 5. It's a bill of law. “ For the sake of the public, I will read Article 5, which says: “Any type of abuse at work and in relation to work (hereinafter referred to as abuse) is forbidden. “ Where is a precise and concrete definition of what is forbidden, and what is this in a specific case of abuse? There isn't. That is why we have put the amendment – and so on, because you did not specify the bill, so we wanted to improve the bill by amendment. You answer us that it is imprecise and unnecessary because abuse can only be in a specific case. There can't be abuse, Mr. Minister, in any particular case. It could be one case, or two, but we have a rerun from time to time and then we have a middleman who's only going to do the same thing. If you were able not to accept this amendment, there is nothing I can do but conclude that you do not care about the protection of an employee from an employer or an employee of an employee, because similar things can be legalized in abuse and cannot be specific. I think it's still time for you to accept this amendment and realize that abuse is abuse, whether in a particular case or similar cases, abuse is abuse. This explanation you've given really has nothing to do with the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40921	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment asking that the words "and its business policy" be deleted in Article 21. The Serbian Radical Party believes the words are too high, as any business policy of any employer is in accordance with the law. It has to be. The explanation for not accepting this amendment states: “The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the draft law is more appropriate. That Article of the Law provides that the employer may accept recommendations from the party's agreement in the dispute if they comply with the law and its business policy. It is indisputable that the employer's business policy must comply with the law. However, it is here that the employer is offered to take measures related to the way the job is organised, which should in any case be in line with the employer's business policy, not to impose on the employer human and other personal solutions that are in accordance with the law but do not provide, for example. an efficient organisation of work, which is part of the employer's business policy. “ In an explanation, as you have heard, it is said that employees should not be imposed on human resources and other personal solutions that do not provide, for example, for example. an efficient organisation of work. We're all witnesses to the so-called. a political mobing which and how to impose personal solutions that do not provide an effective organisation of work. What business policy is being talked about if the state allowed employers to withdraw workers from the National Employment Service, for them of course certain funds, keep them at work as much as they have to, and then fire them without obligation and then re-round? In pre-election campaigns, much has been said about public works as some kind of employment that will help in the situation that we have, in which there are a large number of unemployed workers. I ask, what is this contribution, if, say, Bela Palanka, as the most underdeveloped municipality, with the lowest average salary, with 3,000 unemployed, has received only one project of public work to clean the canal, on which only 23 workers will work? What about the other 2977, and isn't it just the fact that they're going to wait forever for the municipality to get a project of public works, for example, for their profession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40923	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40924	On Article 22, in front of the parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment requesting that the first word “six ” be replaced by“ twelve. ” In an explanation for not accepting the amendments, it is said to be not accepted for the reason why the proposed deadline in the amendment is a debt. "Employment at work is a disrespect of labour discipline, which, as a violation of labour obligations, according to the Law on Work of Obsolescence within six months of the day of the injury committed. “ Yesterday, we talked about the fear that is present in people who suffer abuse, so the Serbian Radical Party felt that it was only because of this fear that it was normal that the time in which a request for protection from abuse could be extended from six to twelve months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40925	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40926	I have submitted to Article 23 a amendment requesting that the word "sustainable" be replaced by "temporary (up to 90 days)" in point 2. The proposed legal solution provides that the employer can move the employee to another place where he also has employees. In an explanation that the government has not accepted the amendment, it is said that "the amendment is not accepted because the decision in the bill is more appropriate because it represents a sanction which at the same time permanently prevents further abuse, so it does not need to be time-limited, as proposed in the amendment. In addition, the transfer to another working environment does not always mean the transfer to another place of work, and if such a transfer is carried out it must be in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Labour Act (which means the limitation of distance, the provision of a transport fee). “ If you had accepted the proposed amendment, this possibility would have been absolutely avoided, the transfer to another place would have been avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40927	The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Mrs. Jelena Budimirovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40928	Dear Presidency, Honored citizens of Serbia, colleagues and I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, have proposed to amend Article 3 in Article 23. Paragraph 3 reads this: “If an employee, who, for the purpose of committing abuse, is given the measure laid down in Article 2, re-exerts abuse within six months, the employer may cancel his employment contract, or impose a measure of termination of a working relationship, in accordance with the law. “ Item 3 is, in the opinion of the SNS, problematic because it responds to a non-binding language formulation – the employer can, which does not mean that he has to. In addition, Article 3 significantly restricts the possibility of punishing the perpetrator of an act of abuse by prescribing that the termination of a working relationship can only be pronounced if the act is repeated within six months and if a measure laid down in Article 2 is imposed. However, the Labour Act allows for a serious breach of the labour obligation to be imposed without conditions of prior punishment. By erasing this attitude, the employer can immediately stop working, providing more effective protection for employees, including the employer himself, when the crime is committed. If the proposed position were to remain, it would mean that the perpetrators could be certain that they would not get fired if they committed the abuse for the first time and then after six months and one day after the previous one they were punished for. The abuse of work in itself is inadmissible. That is why today we are discussing a law that will sanction the abuse of work, and therefore we should not distinguish between the one who has committed the abuse of work for the first time, for the second or more time. We shouldn't put in a privileged position the one who did the first time. Given the seriousness of this phenomenon, especially in Serbia, because of the high unemployment and the difficult social situation of the unemployed, it is not possible to understand why the lawmaker is trying to limit the possibility of taking criminal measures against the perpetrators, while at the same time calling for the Resolution of the European Parliament 2001-2339, which is currently insisting that countries provide effective measures to protect employees. In order to be more precise in defining and more effective in law enforcement, I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40929	I thank Miss Budimirovic. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I believe it's an oversight that you have not accepted this amendment, because you have made a failure in the law itself and predicted that I may suffer sanctions... Here, article 23 speaks of the responsibility of the abuser; you have, I suppose, overlooked the possibility that one who abuses the right to protection against abuse, for example falsely reporting, that he may also answer. We, with this amendment, first and foremost extend responsibility. Paragraph 3 states: “If an employee, who has been told a measure of attitude 2 for abuse, ” and we add here: “or because of the abuse of the right to protection against abuse. ” Hence, those who abuse the right must respond just as they do to abuse. We further cooperate and seek, considering that you have overlooked three sanctions: a warning, a distance from work from four to 30 days without profit compensation and a permanent transfer to another working environment... You have a warning as a mildest measure, I suppose, for the mildest cases of abuse, and you have these two more severe sanctions, a distance of up to 30 working days without compensation and permanent transfer to another working environment. We in the SRS felt it would be normal to, first of all, extend the period of six months in which it is possible to repeat abuse or abuse to 12 months. Why? When you look at the definition of abuse as you give it, you say it is every active or passive behavior that is repeated; abuse is not a one-time act or act, but it takes weeks and months. It will be difficult ever to apply, unless you accept our amendment, this member in practice. Why? If you have a two- or three-month abuse, then you've got a mediation procedure, so you've got some sanctions. Do you think there will be enough time for the six months to repeat this cycle of abuse, which must take a certain period of time, that a possible process of intervention must go through again, be imposed, and only by giving a second sanction for abuse of work, or abuse of abuse, you gain the basis for applying this member? For six months it's impossible, it's just too short a period. The explanation you gave is pointless, I'd say, like everyone else. You say: “A warning as a measure will not be effective enough if an employee who has been told this measure knows that his work contract cannot be cancelled if he continues to commit abuse. “ This is simply not true because the job contract or termination of a working relationship can also be said on the basis of the Labour Law. Therefore, it can also be a violation of labour discipline to qualify and, under the law, a measure of termination of employment can also be imposed. This amendment does not in any way affect the Labour Act, nor does the other rights that workers have in accordance with that law. A responsibility is also established for those who exercise the right to protection against abuse. I hope you understand what we're talking about. It is always right to sanction those who commit a crime, some act that is sanctioned by society as negative, but also to sanction those who abuse it, or those who falsely report it. If you do not accept this amendment, and given the enormous responsibility of the employer, you are practically stimulating people to put pressure on the employer by saying – if you do not do what I like and what I like, I will report you day to day and you can do nothing. Therefore, sanctions must be imposed for the abuse of the right to protection against abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40931	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 27. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40932	On behalf of the Proposer, I accept the Committee's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40933	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40934	I'm sorry, but you're really reading very fast, and I didn't get back to you on time. So, what is essential, Vladan Jeremic has submitted an amendment that would have changed Article 27's position somewhat. Here you say, "Employee who abuses the right," and we have done, let me say, the legal technical order of the text and asked for it to stand there: "Employee, who is found to have been abused under this law". The amendment tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs is, in fact, a somewhat modified text of this amendment. As far as I can see, it's even identical text and I really don't know why you didn't accept our amendment, but you went to a special submission.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40935	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40936	With this amendment to Article 29, we asked that the words "Article 14(2) of this Law" be replaced by the words "12 months from the day of the abuse". This amendment is a logical follow-up to Article 22. We felt that the amendment to Article 22 would be accepted and then we carried out the technical order of the text and proposed this amendment in Article 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40937	The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40938	This is about an amendment to the judicial protection of persons exposed to abuse at work. I'd like to open up some questions about judicial protection, because, Mr. Minister, the purpose of this whole thing is for persons exposed to labour abuse to receive adequate judicial protection and to exercise their rights in that judicial protection. I think this is just one declarative norm and, in fact, that norm will absolutely have no larger foothold in practice. The question arises as to how it will all look in practice, how will the court be able to ban the continued behavior of abuse? So the court should do so once in a decision that would have a binding character for a future time, for a future period. What would you think the very saying of that decision would look like? Therefore, it should, for example, be said to establish that there is labour abuse, so that it is determined that this abuse was, or that the elements were, and that the decision is to prohibit this and that company from doing further harm to dignity, for example, employees, by being, and then repeating what it was. Who's going to respect one of these decisions? It's not a solution just to get a regulation. The basic thing is that the regulation is respected in practice. Therefore, the aim is to ensure strict respect for the provisions of this law and adequate protection of the persons, therefore, of the entities subject to this law. I would refer a little bit to the second section relating to the compensation of a material and immaterial damage to a person who is being addressed in a court procedure and who is seeking protection. How many in practice, Mr. Minister, are there cases of judicial protection of persons seeking protection in court proceedings? If the courts in any case were to find adequate material and immaterial damage that workers suffered at work, I think this country would be in serious trouble in that case within a year. Some government gentlemen should really be adept, descending to the ground and seeing how our workers live, how Serbian citizens live, and how certain employers behave in relation to employees. I'm saying that some of the government should know that workers have never been out of debauchery for three, four months in the park in front of the presidency, at minus 15 degrees, that they don't spend their days and months on railroads and roads across Serbia (I think you, Mr. Minister, have convinced yourself that hunger strikes do not risk their lives because honey and milk flow in their lives. Indeed, some government gentlemen should land a little while and finally see how Serbian citizens live. I'd like to look back on the compensation of material and immaterial damage. How will these workers achieve this material and immaterial damage in court proceedings? Do you know, Mr. Minister, how perfidual ways in which employers do this directly or indirectly affect workers, especially to quit their jobs? It's mostly privatized companies, companies that are either in front of bankruptcy... So, there are a lot of cases of these mob privatisations, and you're aware of that, all of you, probably from the government. I'll give you just one brief example of a privatized firm, so let's all ask ourselves together how these workers will meet their requirements in one court procedure. An employer in a privatized company, it's a firm called "Gytotransport" from Cačka, brought one, I apologize, but I have to say, I don't usually say that, a hohstappler who's already been prosecuted earlier for a criminal act of fraud. The primary task of this man was to convince workers to give up at least half of their earnings from an earlier period that the employer owed them. Do you know what's going on? So, to conclude a contract that will voluntarily forgive the employer of his multi-month earnings, hard to gain. Then comes the meeting of this man with the workers in four eyes. One by one, they're coming to him. He convinces them it's also in their interest, in the interest of continuing the company's work, and then leaving. After seven days of coming back, it's the same story again. You know what's going on, Mr. Minister? More than 90% of workers under such influence conclude contracts that give up their monthly earnings compared to the employer. He promises to stay at work, that it's the only way for them to stay at work. You know what the epilogue is? Now over 50% of those workers are out of work. They got fired. Now, that's that side of the medal for the judicial protection of these workers. How will these workers achieve judicial protection? This is just one example, and believe me, hundreds and hundreds of such examples are in Serbia, similar or the same, where workers can't and won't be able to achieve this protection, that is, this second part of the article, which says – the achievement of material and immaterial damage. Unfortunately, that's the dark side of this medal. I think this is just a declarative norm and this was exactly the meaning of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40939	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40940	I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Depriving this member means denying the entire law, which for the first time enters our legal system, and means denying the rights of an employee to judicial protection against abuse. It seems to me that all previous amendments to the parliamentary group from which this amendment comes have been understandable and constructive and have sought to extend the deadlines for protection against abuse, to extend the scope and ways in which abuse can be done, but this amendment fully denies the right to judicial protection. It is obvious that the amendment promoter did not understand that the court in the court proceedings should first establish that abuse occurred and then impose a further ban on abuse. It has also been asked several times from the same parliamentary group in which the court will determine and impose a measure of compensation for material and immaterial damage. Well, in various ways, mostly art. For example, the charge of immaterial damage will be determined by the court by hearing the prosecutor, which will be heard by the employer, which will listen to the workers as witnesses, which will obtain written documentation concerning, say, the transfer to the workplace of a woman who has two children, whose employer has given a move to a second job, with twice the working time, 50 kilometers away from the employer’s seat, etc. Of course, by obtaining an autoanalysis, a heterogeneous court expert would find that there are likely to have been some, and there will certainly be such cases, and we have all pointed out in our discussions, health problems or mental disorders, which are not caused by some other life event. That's why I'm saying that your whole effort, and it seemed constructive to me, is that this law is improving the negation of this amendment, which absolutely needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40941	Thank you. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have submitted an amendment to Article 30. Mr. Secretary wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40942	We accept this amendment, but I must say that it is actually a matter of detailing the amendments made by some of the Members of Parliament which are contained in this amendment to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40943	Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Mrs. Plassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40944	I'm just going to make it clear that it's a matter of detailing my amendment, and in that sense, I accept that my amendment with the correction has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40945	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 31st amendment. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40946	Thank you. We have submitted the amendment to Article 31. The title above the article 31 is – The burden of proof in the court proceedings. We believe that the words "made them likely" and too inaccurate and broad. I will read them: “If, during the course of the proceedings, the prosecutor has made it likely that the abuse of Article 6 of this Law has been committed, the burden of proving that there has been no behaviour that constitutes abuse is on the employer. ” We believe that this "made it likely" and too wide. Is it enough to have one witness or does it need any more evidence, etc? I can accept your explanation of why you refused the amendment, but I think I should point out why we're proposing it. In the last few amendments and members... Otherwise, the whole law is filled with some broad terms and inaccuracies, the last few amendments concern it. When he spoke of his amendment, my colleague Milan Dimitrijevic also mentioned that he was on the rise in abuse at work, in all sectors of the economy and out of business. What should particularly concern all of us, both as MPs and as a society in general, is that the Serbian Journalist Union recently announced and pointed out that there is a very significant increase in the abuse of journalists in Serbia, in all the media, both in print and electronic. They expressed concern that the proposed provisions would not be effective enough to protect employees from webber employers. Otherwise, they came forward about this debate about this law, and they believe that this law could be and how significant it is to prevent certain phenomena, but they also express skepticism because the law is full of inaccuracies. They also point out that, instead of dialogue, there is an increasingly present problem facing autocratic management, i.e. media administrations, resulting in the choking of working and professional freedoms of journalists. I think every society has to worry about when the Journalists' Union is talking about choking on the freedom of journalists and the freedom of the media. We're all witnesses that you can't hear one criticism at the expense of this government and that all the media, as the people would say, is a match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40947	The 32nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Miss Jelena Budimirovic, and then Mrs Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40948	Thank you. This is another in a series of amendments that the Prosperity Group Advanced has submitted to Serbia in order to improve this legislative proposal. We have proposed an amendment to Article 32(2) concerning the urgency of the procedure. Article 2 says the court will file a complaint with contributions to the defendant for reply within 15 days of receipt of the suit. We think the delivery deadline has to be shortened because it's an emergency procedure. The proposed 15-day period is unnecessary and undue debt from the point of view of the need to take urgent measures to protect against abuse. Probably the promoter had in mind the current situation in our judiciary, so he left a little longer time. The state of organisation of the work of our reformed judiciary is so bad that the 15-day deadline is unattainable, but we hope that this situation will at least improve in a few years. So we're still proposing a shorter deadline. Once again, we invite you to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40949	National MP Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40950	I'm sorry, I got here late to react. My comment refers to the previous amendment. I find this provision of Article 31 of this Law extremely important and in this sense I believe absolutely nothing should be changed, because the burden of proof must be on those who have committed abuse because it is a completely common legal institute of modern law. When it comes to anti-discrimination laws, it can be said that this law can be treated that way. Why is that necessary? This is necessary for the extra protection of the abused. By definition, the abuser has power mechanisms in his hands. That is why it is unacceptable to force someone who is abused, exhausted by abuse, to further prove something. It is, after all, a fully accepted mechanism in the world. I also want to point out that five years ago, when we passed the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities, I had an amendment that applied to this. At the time, there was absolutely no understanding in Serbia to do such a thing. It's simply that many colleagues and the minister of the day were confused by such an amendment that, I must say, I didn't come up with it myself, but people who are seriously dealing with the law suggested it to me. But after a few years, the climate changed in Serbia, and I want to express my satisfaction about it, so we had such a provision when we passed the general anti-discrimination law. So our legislation already knows her. Then we had to correct what we didn't do in time, so in the general anti-discrimination law, we had to say that this provision also applies to the Law on preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. In order not to make a mistake, I don't think the amendments that suggest erasing this provision, or the burden of proof, are in place. "Make likely" is a completely common term in the provision concerning the burden of proof. I fully advocate that she stay and I highlight this as one of the great values of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40951	Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40952	As regards amendments to Article 32, it would really be best in practice if we could interpret the urgency of the procedure in such a way as to determine within a few days that there was abuse, that the court would pass judgment, to determine material and immaterial damage, its height, etc. Indeed, this three-day deadline is not realistic, given that only the administrative part of seducing the lawsuit, passing through the office, in the delivery service, etc., given the organisation of the courts, is absolutely unrealistic. The deadline for filing a complaint for the defendant's response in the litigation proceedings has been reduced enough, from 30 days to 15 days. In addition to other things, this law also provides for the adoption of provisional measures within eight days of the date of submission of requests for provisional measures. We believe that these and other provisions of the law are sufficiently safeguarded by urgency and necessity as quickly as possible to make a court decision and to file an action against the defendant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40953	The right to replica will be used by Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40954	I don't want a replica. I'd like to be an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40956	Just tell me how many more minutes do I have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40957	Four and a half minutes, and twelve minutes from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40958	I'll take a few minutes from the MP's group's time. The amendments to the labour abuse law are slowly coming to an end. I think we should say a few words, because, practically, what was most important in this law we've already exhausted here. Some of the amendments we have submitted as the DSS Group have been accepted, some of our amendments have not been accepted, although they are identical in the text of someone else accepted, but, never mind, the essence is that the law is partially corrected. There are a few things that are very important to say. When we talk about mobbing, which is an increasingly present social phenomenon both in Serbia and everywhere in the world, when we talk about it being actually something that is the growing problem of Serbia, we have to say that it is a question – how to eat an elephant? This kind of question can cause laughter, but slowly, step by step, I'll prove it possible. I mean, it's actually a successful fight against mobbing and how possible, but it's possible if you consider three elements, very cumulative. Those are preventive measures. In one part, we criticised what you wrote as a possibility of preventive measures. This is the notification of the employer, or employer is obliged to inform each employee that the abuse is prohibited. We've commented that it's completely insufficient, that it's completely inaccurate. What's prevention for us in that sense? Correct information – what is mobing, what are elements, what are forms. Then, permanent education and especially communication training for every employee in the company, especially managers. This successful struggle involves preventive measures, the adoption of laws. This is the first step, the first law to regulate that area, but the law is completely inaccurate, in many parts completely unclear. My colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia have read to you what the Journalist Union says. He says, roughly, everything that we as DSS MPs have said here today, there's a lot of inaccuracies, the definitions are too wide or completely unusable. One of these things that are completely unclear is a mediator, or mediator. You're saying there's a certain list of intermediaries. We don't know how to get on that list, we don't know who the middlemen are, what they're going through and what kind of training they're doing. That's all completely unclear. In second place, you say that any worker who has authority and wants to be a mediator can be a mediator. Of course, I've turned my attention several times. It's impossible without education. Mediation is still a very complicated and specific procedure, which not everyone can just do. What is very important to us as a solution is public education. Yesterday, I turned my attention to it. I need a wide social campaign. Indeed, something that is very important to the citizens of Serbia should be done, that every citizen of Serbia knows what it is, that he knows what the countries are doing on the plan, what other partners are doing. Let's not kid ourselves, one of the very important partners is the union. It must include in its programmes the protection of workers from mobbing. He must be able to protect the interests of his members in this area through various pressures. A special effort by the union must be made when collective agreements are concluded. These are some of the things we want to potentiate. During this debate we said what we had to say, that we were not against the adoption of this law, but in many elements we agree that the law... I see, all the other parliamentary groups, even the people of power, comment that many things are inaccurate, that they have to be done. I'm afraid of only one thing – this law will not be possible, in some way, to use for good employees in Serbia. And you will see for yourself, when it starts to apply, that within a few months, such as this government's manner, you will come with changes and additions, just because you haven't listened enough to what we tell you. Of course, we haven't made our own amendments, and we haven't tried to discover hot water; we've done this with people who've been doing this work for a long time and who really have something to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40959	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sarovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 32 provides that in cases for the exercise of the right to protection against abuse, the procedure is urgent. The Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the other part, and of the We asked for that deadline to be reduced to seven days. In an explanation given by the government, the deadline proposed is too short and unrealistic given the burden of courts. It says, this formulation is in line with the above-mentioned article of the Law on Prosecution. That's just not true. You need to know that the Law on the Prosecution is, it can be said, the basic law, that this is a special law in relation to this and that deadlines can be set differently from what was adopted as a general rule when the Law on the Prosecution Act was adopted. Therefore, this law on protection against abuse can be seen as lex specialis in relation to this law and is legally allowed and possible; and that is what the Legislative Committee said, that this amendment is legally possible. So you can't rely on any legal provisions. If we're talking about reality, whether it's possible or not, given that you've recently implemented the fifth reform of the judiciary since 2000, that you've chosen new judges, that you've executed a constitutional re-election, that you've made a new network of courts and that you've promised that the courts will be incomparably more efficient than before, I think it's necessary to shorten the time limit for a very simple action like forwarding the lawsuit to answer. What's the problem with both this law and other laws is that apparently legal proposals are written by people who have never worked in court, people who have no practice. We just heard from our colleagues about how short the three-day deadline is. Maybe it is, but believe me, it would be possible in three days, we've been going to some optimal solution for seven days. Seven days means at least five working days. Anyone who's ever worked in court on any basis, whether as a judge's intern, a judicial associate, and I am, or as a lawyer, knows that the post office, which includes the newly filed lawsuits, is brought to judges every morning. It's enough to do a delivery order and it's a procedure that lasts the first 10 or 15 minutes in every working day of every good judge. So it would be possible to do this in three days, not seven days. Seven days is more than enough. When setting deadlines for such a simple operation as forwarding a lawsuit, you must make sure that in those 15 days, someone will suffer physically, mentally or physically and psychologically. The aim of the legislator and the intention of the SRS Group is to protect these people and to keep this abuse as short as possible. After that, the person charged with abuse is left with an additional time limit for the 15-day appeal, which is already 30 days, and only after that can the first hearing be scheduled. At this rate as it is now done, it's scheduled for about 60 to 75 days, which means this will take months. I'm sure there's no one who can make any argument that a seven-day deadline is not enough and that the courts won't be able to honor it. I hope you accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40961	The 33rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40962	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, the proposed SNS amendment removes the obvious legal shortcomings of Article 33. It's a bill of law. I don't think there's any reason for the temporary measure to be limited only to preventing violent behavior, because abuse in the work is in principle not done by violent behavior that usually involves and physical violence. In addition, physical violence is a phenomenon that prevents direct intervention by members of the MUP, and for a longer period, if there is a danger of recurrence, and by detention of the perpetrators, but in any case never by a provisional measure of the court. Furthermore, a temporary measure is never done to remove damage, only to prevent damage. Elimination of damages is resolved by a judgment ending the proceedings and causing damages to the cause, i.e. the removal of harmful consequences by vomiting in the previous situation. We also believe that the term "imparable damage" should be replaced by the term "indemnible consequence", because it is the correct term, which is already used in the legislation; for example, it can be a health damage damaged with permanent consequences. On the other hand, I will remind you that the concept of damage rightly implies the consequences that it is making up for, so that this bill is about another obvious professional error that can lead to problems in the application of the law. Because how will the irreparable damage be compensated in the case of employees in the privatised "Morava" ATP from Vrnjak Banja, which were on strike 131 days since 4 January this year? They got frostbite, pneumonia, and even physical injuries when trying to break through the bus station blockage. It took 131 days for the authorities to start doing their job. The owner is in custody. The procedure is ongoing. This way I call on you to help employees of the ATP Morava that have created this company for decades, who want to continue to work and to make ATP "Mova" one of the country's first five car carriers again. Finally, taking into account the number and severity of the professional errors made when writing this bill, as well as the fact that this became a rule of conduct of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS requires the responsibility of the officials who wrote this bill, as well as of the directors and responsible persons in the Legislative Secretariat who did not exercise proper control over the text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40963	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 33, the word "revelation" is intended to be replaced by the words "preventing appearances". I would rely only on previous members, where the irreparable damage cannot be removed, because the irreparable damage is irreparable, the term itself says. She can't be removed. The irreparable damage can be tried to prevent it, but it cannot be removed. If we take any example from Serbia, that a man chops off his finger because of the abuse at work or that he suffers from the abuse of his hand, God forbid he loses it, he can't make up for it. What you've called to other laws in your explanation is that one bad thing should cause ten bad ones. In your explanation, you stated that the proposal for a law is termologically in line with the provision of the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which stipulates that temporary measures can be laid down during the procedure in order to remedy the irreparable damage. We haven't even asked the question of temporary measures here, but it's just this notional doubt that removing the irreparable damage can't happen, because the irreparable damage is irreparable. It's something defined by some other law. By referring to other laws, this law is then absolutely losing weight. Anyone who passes law school knows that, and in the introduction to law or anywhere, the irreparable damage is irreparable. So, in order for certain things not to be repeated and that this law would really have a good practice when it comes into force, if you accept amendments to the SRS, and this one, you must know for yourself that irreparable damage is something that cannot be removed, but can be prevented or tried to prevent it, so that you must adopt this amendment if you think that this law is applied in practice as you have imagined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40965	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40966	The answer to this dilemma was given by the Law on Liaison Relations and its comment that the removal of irreparable damage implies not only the removal of damage but also the prevention of its creation.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40967	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40968	I took the line, since it's my amendment. So if we all agree that one law has entered into the congregation procedure with certain suggestions on how it will be implemented in practice, then that does not mean that we should appeal to laws that have not defined this area. So what a colleague from the ZES Group said absolutely has nothing to do with this law. If we were to bind all members to the Law on Bond Relations or to some other law, as a legal litigation procedure, then this law should not even exist. So one bad thing can't cause ten other bad things. This is precisely why the definition of this prevention of irreparable damage cannot define that the Law on Liabilities is irreparable. How will you make up... For example, a man lost his hand, by the Law of Bond Relations, he may have a verdict of 20% more than what he lost the damages. How's he gonna get the damages if the man lost his hand? Give him one and a half, or give him...? I do not understand on what basis the Law on Bond Relations will be adopted or applied in this article of this law. So, basically, if you have irreparable damage, if you are suffering from some disease that is irreparable, which cannot be cured, how will the Law on Bond Relations...? You get a solution to get someone to pay for treatment that can't cure you and give you an appointment that you might not have on the basis of a court ruling of the bonding law? That absolutely doesn't stand. This law has nothing to do with the Bond Relations Act. Not even the case of the Law on Procedural Procedure can be applied. Maybe for some bound deadlines, but related to the compensation of irreparable damage can't, and it's in practice obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40969	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40970	Obviously, there is a fundamental misunderstanding and a notion of temporary measures and the idea of removing irreparable damage. The temporary measures to prevent violent treatment are just prevention, preventing what a colleague is talking about. Someone is working in a dangerous workplace without adequate protection prescribed by the Labour Relations Act, etc. There may be damage to the type of loss of fingers, arms, etc. The court then adopts a temporary measure to prevent violent conduct or conduct, in terms of abuse at work, or to remove irreparable damage. The termology of the Law on Liabilities should not be specifically defined by this law, since it is known what is meant by the term of removing irreparable damage. That is why, when this is discussed, it is necessary to look at the whole position of this member and to respect the Institute for the Prevention of Damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40971	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic. I'm sorry, but on what grounds, from the time of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40972	Mr. Chikiriz, if anyone here doesn't understand something then it's certainly not Milan Avramovic, it's you. If you're talking about some kind of legal theory, then you can't call for a comment from the Law on Liabilities. That, in line with positive legislation in Serbia, is not a source of rights. The comment of the law can be written by anyone. If we're already talking about irreparable damage, then all we can do is legally theoretically talk about what it is is irreparable damage. The irreparable damage is the one that cannot be removed, the name itself says. The other thing, the irreparable damage is the one that's already happened. So, if you were talking in your case that someone is working in a dangerous workplace, without adequate protection, so they can be suffered in some way, only temporarily can it be done to prevent the occurrence of irreparable damage. Therefore, if someone is surrounded by toxic gases, works without adequate protection, it can be ordered to prevent appearances; therefore, to order the employer to apply all measures of protection at work necessary to avoid irreparable damage. The moment the damage occurs, when there are lasting consequences, serious consequences for someone's health, then the damage is irreparable. Then these temporary measures don't help anymore. The action of the court and the temporary measure can only be aimed at preventing the occurrence of irreparable damage, and as you have predicted – to remove irreparable damage – it is a legal nonsension. The irreparable damage cannot be compensated. So if someone, for example, gets hurt by working with toxic gases, then 70% of the function disappears, it's a damage that can't be compensated. If someone in the workplace, because there are no safety measures at work, runs out of hands, how will that damage be compensated? It's a shame that's irreparable. At least until the moment the medicine progresses so much that someone else can be made. I took a simple example to make you understand what this was about. The irreparable damage cannot be compensated. So once it comes, that's the end. The Court must, on a temporary basis, go to prevent appearances. It's the only thing that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40973	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 33. The word is for Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40974	I would like to say that this is a modified amendment to Parliament by Aleksandra Jankovic, and we accept, on behalf of the Proposer, the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40975	Thank you. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40976	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the legal technical order of the text one more time. The problem is what I said – people who write these laws are obviously not people who practice law enforcement. We, therefore, have proposed that Article 33 paragraph 2 "resist" be changed in the word "tolerant" or that the time limit for the adoption of the provisional measure should not be due from the date of the submission of the proposal to the Court, but from the submission of the proposal to the Court. The proposal is submitted to the Court and that is what is only correct, in accordance with the legal theory. You are referring here to the Law of Prosecution, and you say that it is written there and stated, from the day of surrender, it is required of the court. You can't excuse one stupid thing with another stupidity. Let's see, state and find a legal writer who'll say something's turning himself in to the court. The court doesn't turn itself in. The case is not handed down, it's brought to court. That's what accepted legal terminology. If you have made a mistake in some law, then that mistake cannot be the basis for making new mistakes. I have to look back briefly on this previous amendment that the Ministry has accepted. I think it's a big mistake, because you say that "in temporary terms it is especially," so you're counting. Dear fellow Members of Parliament and Mr. Minister, the court never determines what temporary measures are at its disposal. The court is never bound by law in the matter of interim measures. Why? Because there is not enough law and there is not enough legislator to predict all possible situations that can happen in real life. When you say “to temporary measures, especially that and that” see what you would get if you turned that around. Should we say that the temporary measures do not particularly include that and what is the range of this provision that you two temporary measures have led to the fact that they fall particularly into temporary measures? Thus, this fundamental provision does not mean anything, for without its existence, the court will also have the possibility of a wide range of temporary measures that the court considers appropriate for a real situation in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40977	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 36. The word is for Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40978	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40979	Thank you. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40980	Ladies and gentlemen, this is one in a series of amendments that we have submitted to members who determine the criminal provisions of this law, where fines for abuse, for abuse of the right to abuse, for an employer who has the property of a legal person, for an employer who is an entrepreneur, for a responsible person in a legal person and the like. Regardless of the level of punishment, we felt that the punishment should be increased somewhere and you have accepted several amendments, including amendments by Dragan Stevanovic and Milan Avramovic, and this amendment has not been accepted. Why don't you, I don't know, if all amendments have the same meaning. We practically asked here to increase the fine with 10,000 dinars in attitude 1 to 25,000 dinars, in order to keep the penalty range one to four, as in all other criminal provisions. So when you're punishing someone, it doesn't matter if it's an employer if it's a legal entity, of course the penalties will be bigger than the entrepreneur because the entrepreneur assumes a smaller number of employees, but the range between the lowest and the maximum penalties must remain. It's something that's a rule, that's what's good and in other laws, and I think you'd have to accept it in this situation. The explanation you gave me is completely pointless. I would ask, if any of the representatives of the Ministry could further explain this, but you here say: “The proposed solution is not in line with the prescribed range of fines in Article 35. Law on infringements entered into force on 1 January 2010. “ Gentlemen, what does this law and criminal provisions of abuse have to do with the Law of Infringements? You couldn't sanction what's going on under future law by law. What it says is completely legal. You are referring to a law that has already been passed when you explain the criminal provisions in a law that has yet to be passed. So the criminal provisions of this law can only be consistent with this law, with nothing else, because the Law of Infraction has absolutely nothing to do with this. The law on violations prescribes penalties and a range of penalties for other matters, especially when you're not talking about heights here, you're talking about range. How is it possible that the range one by four is adequate for the second position of the same member, is adequate for the previous member, where you accepted our amendment and is not only adequate for this position? It's not about height, I repeat, it's about the range between the highest and lowest penalty, that this relationship is one to four, like 10,000 to 40,000 in the previous position, that there's 25,000 to 100,000 here, but the range remains the same -- one to four. It's impossible that it's in one position that it's in harmony without being in the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40981	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 37. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40982	On behalf of the Proposer, I accept this amendment to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40983	Thank you. Mr. Milan Avramovic wants a word. You signed up for the last one. Just to remind you that you have been speaking since the time of your parliamentary group, since the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40984	The adoption of this amendment has clearly defined that criminal policy must be the same for both entrepreneurs and employers, no matter how many employees there are in a company. This amendment is automatically in conflict with the amendment of counterpart Nemanje Sarovic, which does not explain the reasons why one criminal policy for one type of work is valid and not for the other. I thank you for having the understanding to accept this amendment, but you should have done it for the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40985	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40986	I've reported on the amendment to Article 37, which has just been accepted by the Ministry's representative. I'd just like to prove once again how seriously the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has worked. Yesterday we had a big debate about it, and I'm even grounded for it. When you see an explanation for which a member is accepted in 37, you will see how serious it is, or inconclusive, the Radio Committee. The explanation says: “This amendment is in line with the amendment to Article 38. It's a bill of law. “ So, you, by amendment to Article 37, are coordinating to a future amendment that he has submitted, as this committee has suggested. The Committee did not propose it at all at that time; at that moment it is a future amendment. This was only done by Gašo Knezevic when he illegally expelled Dr Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law, so he called for future law on the university. He said -- it's in the legal procedure, there's a bill that hasn't been delivered to the Assembly yet, but it's already being applied. The courts twice adopted the suit and appeal of Dr Vojislav Seselj and returned him to work. So you cannot, by amendment to Article 37, align something with Article 38, or the amendment proposal, because at that moment the amendment has not yet existed, it was proposed only later.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40987	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 37 refers directly to Article 7, in which the definition of which the employer is required to make an employee, before entering the work, writtenly through the notice of the prohibition of abuse and rights, the obligations and responsibilities of the employee and the employer in connection with the prohibition of abuse. In accordance with this law, it's supposed to be 60 days, so, two months. On behalf of the SRS, I intervened to reduce this deadline from 60 days to 30 days because it eliminates the possibility of abuse or abuse of work at all. I think even if the 30-day deadline is too high, but due to a large number of, say, employees in one company, let it be reasonable and 30-day period, in which the employer will be obliged to inform the new employee about his rights, related to work. What is essential is an argument by which this amendment is not accepted, and this explanation is also for Mr Vladan Batic's amendment, which is absolutely the same, it is that the amendment is not accepted because the deadline in the bill is more appropriate than the deadline proposed by the amendment of the People's Parliament. It is explained that there is a need to keep in mind and employers with a large number of employees who need to be provided with these written notices. You know what, if an employee receives a salary in a month or 30 working days in a company and if the employer knows who's employed in his company and what kind of cash compensation he needs to give him for that work, then he absolutely knows what rights he can have for that period of time. So it doesn't take two months for the employer to inform the new employee of his rights, related to abuse, especially in the state of Serbia. Tell us in which company in Serbia has so many employees that the employer cannot arrive within two months to inform the worker of his rights? What company in Serbia has so many employees? Give me an example, and I'll take this argument. Essentially, if you have a range for some obligations to an employee, within a month, and even in half of the month when receiving the first half of the cash compensation for work, then you have an absolute explanation for his rights. Imagine the time limit if a worker violates his rights under some other law, the Labour Act. Then the employer would automatically react within eight days. Then that deadline doesn't exist. So these arches can't be the same, especially with you who are referring to another law. Other laws apply when it is in the interests of the employer, and when it is in the interest of the employee, these deadlines are a little longer than they should be. Please accept this amendment because the essence of this amendment is simply to prevent abuse in a shorter period, to keep someone informed of what should not be done during their working hours or during the period of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40989	Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40990	We accept this amendment. I just want to clarify that these deadlines apply to existing employees, and for all new employees, the employer is obliged to immediately inform the worker of the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40991	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 37a.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40992	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40993	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40994	I accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40995	Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40996	We have accepted, as Government, twelve amendments from the Members of Parliament and ten amendments from the Committee. During the debate in particular, we accepted two more amendments from the MPs. It may be interpreted as evidence of errors or failures, lack of the law itself, but I think it's a good thing that we have good and quality law in the end, and all the objections and criticisms of that kind we accept on ourselves. In any case, this debate exists in order to improve the legal text, and I think we have succeeded in this debate. I thank all MPs for a very constructive debate and for the amendments attached.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40997	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law on prevention of labour abuse, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON VOLONTIRANJU (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Milan Dimitrijevic, Dusan Marić, Snezana Stojanović-Plavić, Elvira Kovac, Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popović, Natasa Mićić, Nebojša Radjelović, Kenan Hajdarević, Bojan Mladenov, Bojan Mladenović, Zlata Djerić, Radovan Radovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Mirko Munjic, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Popović, Boran Popović, Miljan Ranjelović, Tomislav Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Zoran Arsić, Zoran Babić, Zoran Baić, Igor Bečić, Jelača Radažarić, Božarović, Bodar Žalić, Bodar Žalić, Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žović, Žalić, Žalić, Žalić Žalić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljić, Žaljić. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before moving to a particular search, I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is Article 148 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments by MP Zlata Djeric to the article. Seven and twelve. The draft law, and the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Milica Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40998	Thank you. Yesterday I promised to talk about the same thing I said about the previous law. Therefore, Article 1 paragraph 2 reads: “All the concepts used in this law in the male race include the same concepts in the female race in accordance with the law. “ This is one of the laws that this ministry has proposed to MPs, the National Assembly, and always in their laws, we can find attitude 2, which is about to appear at the beginning of the law. Yesterday I asked – does this interpretation apply only to the laws proposed by the Ministry and adopted by the Assembly? Does the laws apply to Serbian citizens only if they write it or if there is a possibility that those laws in which it does not write can apply to Serbian citizens? Of course, the question is absolutely clear. All laws apply to Serbian citizens and citizens, and there is no need to emphasize it this way, simply because it is one of the ways that I would say someone is trying to represent as modern, unlike the conservative one I would probably now represent with this attitude that I defend. I'm just trying to save something that's nice to this language and that the laws and our reality don't look like that movie that's often being rephrased on all possible channels on TV, "Radio Vihor calls Angel." I think everyone saw that movie, and I think today, after all these years, they're a funny replica from that movie, thanks to the language that's incarcerated. I'm afraid the Serbian language thanks to such interpretations and the introduction of so-called. political correctness, which sort of goes through the language here, becomes the same way that it's funny. I'm afraid that what was done in Croatia and what we all laughed at, and were disgusted that language sounds today with some expressions that really don't make sense, slowly enters Serbian. Of course, I have no objection to the position of women in society and their status in society and in the world of work being improved. It's something else entirely. I have actually a comment that what is called political correctness, with the introduction of hundreds of words that are usually women's in Serbian, and for God's sakes here and legally, has nothing to do with the position of women, nor with improving the position of women in the world of work. I'd like to talk about this other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u40999	Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41000	My colleague, I know I stand for the opposite point of view, so I think you should hear both sides. I absolutely believe that it is necessary for women to be all laws and everything that applies to women to be female. I don't understand why anything would... Our language has three generations, it has a female gender, and I believe it is entirely in the spirit of our language that there is also a female for everything that is possible to exist. As to whether or not the language is rhogobat, first, there are linguists to deal with, and we are not. Secondly, I have confidence that every living language is a variable language and that to the extent that we get used to the use of certain words or expressions to that extent it becomes less rhogobatical and becomes much of an integral part of our language. I really hope that the Serbian language will live many, many centuries longer, and I am absolutely sure that for a century or two, it would sound completely archaic what we are talking about today. So the language is a living, variable creature. Only dead languages can't change, the languages of those people that are extinct. I fully support that the Serbian language is also changing in the spirit of modern times, and I think it is something that is good for both language and people to whom it belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41001	Mr. Nemanja Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41002	The Serbian Radical Party also submitted the amendment. So, to delete it from the law on preventing labour abuse and from the law on volunteering. I really can't agree with what's just been said -- that every language needs to change. The language can change, but in a natural way. Language rape cannot achieve gender equality, Mrs Plassic. I hope you finally understand that. Nor will you reach this European Union, which you so much want, and which doesn't want you for any price, by introducing some extreme radical expressions into Serbian, so to speak, we will get used to it in five or ten years. We simply don't want to get used to this nonsense. We want to preserve the Serbian language. We want to preserve our identity. Do not think that you or anyone else are here in the role of Vuk Karadzic, so that you can invent some expressions and say – we will get used to it in a few years. What does that mean? In a century or two, that won't be nakaradic? Do you, Mrs Plassic, want to introduce yourself and to be represented by the presidency as a "cunt" of these amendments? That's consistent with that new speech. I want to be a writer of this amendment, I wrote it. If you want to be a "cunt", ask Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic to call you that in the future. Look at people of authority and profession, when it comes to Serbian language, I'm no expert, but I'm professional enough to read a book of someone who is professional. You can't make up women's names for all the new names, that's nakarad. Let this practice be broken once. In the European Union itself, which shoots at all seams these days, there are a large number of people who resist such tendencies. It's neither beautiful nor modern, nor smart, nor we'll be better tomorrow, nor will our workers be more protected, nor will women have greater rights if we build this kind of nonsense into laws. In the explanation you gave for not accepting, you said that by introducing new terms and natively sensitive language (which means, I don't know) you would achieve something. You say you do not prejudge the decisions of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and other institutions to deal with the language issue. How, when you build into laws expressions that do not exist in Serbian? I'll take a chance now that I've heard from you. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 10, says: "The Serbian language and Cyrillic letter are in official use in the Republic of Serbia." Serbian and Cyrillic. Here is the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to the Voluntary Law, which says: “A new point 8 is added) which reads: Performing ad hoc. “ What does "adhoc" mean in Serbian, Mrs Plassic and the others who will vote for this law? It's not Serbian, it's not Serbian, it's not Serbian. I'm sure none of you at this point, until he looks, may be able to interpret and say what "adhoc" means, which, if in English or any other language, we might read differently. You insert Latin words in the middle of a law written in a Cyrillic letter – ad hoc. She'd be a frog if the horses were bitching, and she'd lift her leg. You're setting yourself up that way and you're representing it as some kind of epochal achievement. There's nothing epochal about rape. There's nothing there. There's nothing there. There's nothing about rape. This can't stand. I hope the minister will change his mind and say that "adhoc" should not still stand in Serbian law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41003	Mr. Ostojić has reported to the Rules of Procedure, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41004	Article 104 - Dignity of the Assembly. I would not interfere with this pointless debate on the language initiated by Mr. Sarovic, but I would ask Mr. Sarovic, when he calls so much for his knowledge of Serbian language and for his guidance in the linguistic books, to correctly quote the Serbian Constitution. It's the best proof of how much your linguists are, and you're all together, except us, writing that constitution at night and voting it for two days... So let him read the name of the letter, according to the Constitution, which is written in Serbia. What you've read is not the name of the letter. You said there was a Cyrillic letter in Serbia. Read, there is no Cyrillic letter in the Constitution. These are the linguists you call upon who wrote the Constitution made you write. Tell me, when did you use that word written in the Constitution for our letter in your language, or any of you? The constitution states that the Cyrillic letter is used in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41005	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41006	Thank you, Madam President. I just have to comment. Of course, we have a different view and different attitudes, and it is perfectly fine for each of us to take our stand. I fully understand that you have the right to do so, as I have the right to ask you, is it possible that today I have heard that the grammar of Serbian language is politically incorrect? So, the question of linguistics... Linguistics is a science that deals with living languages. What we're doing today and what's being inserted in this way are artificial creations. That's not how a new Serbian language is formed, as you mean. I suggest you read some very interesting contributions that Mr. Ivan Klein wrote about how the living language is developing. I am simply not going to comment further, but for me, the grammar of Serbian language is not politically incorrect, it is in line with the language used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41007	Mrs Stojanović Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41008	I really don't think that we should have any further controversy on this subject. Like you said, we have different attitudes and we have arguments, I'm sure, both for those attitudes, but to bring them out here today... We could discuss it all day. Of course there are linguists who think like you and of course there are linguists who think like me. As far as Serbian grammar and spelling of Serbian language are concerned, my children have been educated for twelve years and, believe me, year by year, I am familiar with new spelling or grammar rules. So in ten years, those rules have changed at least five times. I think it's totally fine, like I said. However, I don't want to go any further with my colleague, but with my colleague, I really do, because I don't think there's any reason for you to talk to me like that. You can make your argument, but you don't have to address me in an offensive tone and in an offensive way. I fully respect your arguments. I know what you're gonna say now. I didn't mean the kind of woman you were talking to. I meant the tone you were talking to me about. There's no need to mention me ten times and address me with that tone. That everything that's new, modern or variable is not acceptable to you, is part of your political attitude, and I accept it that way, and I won't take it any further with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41009	Mr. Sarovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41010	Mrs. Plassic, I really don't know why you're running away from the discussion. I must also tell Mr Ostojic and you that this debate is not only pointless, but it is very important to me and the citizens of Serbia. The attacks on Serbian language are constant. This is a kind of attack. I would beg Mrs. Comić, however, if she didn't laugh so loudly, she'd distract me. It's something you have to deal with sometimes. So, you're making new languages out of Serbian, making up new languages. For example, the SNS and their municipality president in Prepolje invented the Bosnian language, so it is in official use, in accordance with the statute, Bosnian language and Latin letter. What's the Bosnian language when it came into existence? Do you have any books written in Bosnian 50 years ago? Does anyone know about the Bosnian-Serbian or Serbian-Bosnian dictionary? He doesn't know. Can I now claim that the language I speak is Martian and then use Serbian words and say – people, this is Martian, it's my right, it's minority, I'm minority? It's something that can't happen. If you're talking about my assignments and that, ma'am, is it my political position to oppose everything that's new and modern, it just isn't. Believe me, I use a lot of modern things, but I'll never agree to what's radical. I don't know what hurt you so much that I asked you, most kindly possible, whether you want to be referred to in future when it comes to amendments as "cunts" of the amendment. It's exactly in line with this new talk, this new and modern thing that you're potentialing and you want to build into the law, and we're against it. If we can't talk about it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where can we talk about it? We're discussing the law here, the law is the subject, right now we're talking about that member of the law. I refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and you say - you can't bring it up. Then this is about a complete disabling of any other opinion. Then don't talk about any democracy. That's what it is, Mrs Plassic, that you accept a different opinion, not that you go right away, that you run away from the debate and try to belittle someone in general. So if you had arguments for a particular matter, you would be talking about a specific matter, and you wouldn't try to demean the Serbian Radical Party by generally saying that we are against everything new and modern, because we are not.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41011	Time. Of course we need to talk about everything, but citizens who want to speak the language of Bosniaks have every right to do so and the way they will plead in this home should not be in the tone in which you speak. Nemanja Sarovic: I did not say Bosniak, but Bosnian. You have no right to a replica. I just had to intervene. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41012	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1), so I will also read what we have proposed to change. That's the definition of what volunteering is. Volunteering, within the meaning of this law, is an organised voluntary provision of services or the pursuit of activities of general interest, for the general good or for the benefit of another person, without payment of cash or claim of other property benefit, unless this law provides otherwise. We suggest that this last sentence "unless this law is defined differently" be deleted. Why? Because volunteering is volunteering and you define it well until that part. So you're saying that volunteering doesn't have to be volunteering and you're giving yourself the opportunity to interpret it differently, or that it doesn't have to be, because you can legally say it's something different. I understand, you are already in article 3 listing what is not volunteering in terms of this law. I think that this complete member is unnecessary, because first of all I don't think your list is exhausted, that there must be some other activities and actions that aren't volunteering without being counted here. That's why I don't think at all it should be said that this law can say that something is volunteering, and it's not volunteering, because there's benefits. Let's just say, in your explanation, they're professional training or training services. Therefore, the provision of these services will not be considered a volunteer. Of course, it will not be considered volunteering if compensation is received for it. Then there are some other laws that regulate it. Then they're already some kind of working relationship that gets financial benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41013	The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41014	Thank you. We felt that Article 2 after item 1, we should add Article 2 where we say: “Short-term volunteering is volunteering that lasts less than ten hours a week, at least a month without interruption. ” Why did we intervene like this? In Article 2(2), you use the term “long-term volunteering” and explain what it is. In paragraph 3, you also mention short-term and long-term volunteering. You don't mention what short-term volunteering is. That's why we intervened, fully defined it, and we believe the amendment should have been accepted. Why didn't you accept the amendment? You say: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that, from the definition of long-term volunteering provided for in Article 2, any volunteering that is not considered a long-term volunteering is a short-term volunteering. “ So all that we have told you when you spoke about this attitude 2 in Article 1, that the concepts of male generation also refer to the concepts of female origin, you are now demonstrating in this article. So in one article you use that same principle, in the other you deny it, because we throw it in and we think it's necessary, because if you define what's long-term, you have to say what's short-term. You're already mentioning him in Section 3. But it's interesting why you don't accept it, you give yourself the right to use it in Article 1, but you don't give us the right to change it in Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41015	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41016	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that in Article 2 the words "three months" be replaced by the words "ninety days". In a response signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted because the duration of long-term volunteering is determined on the basis of the number of hours of work at week level and the continuity of work that implies the duration of work of a certain number of months (at least three months without interruption). It is therefore more acceptable for practical reasons to determine this period according to the number of months rather than the number of days." I have to admit, I've read this answer a few times and I don't know what the writer was going to say. I guess he meant it was a simpler, easier formula for calculating the number of hours. But that's not true. The number of working hours is easier to calculate on the basis of the number of days than on the basis of the number of months. Three months can last 89 days, and they can last 92 days. Once again, I use the presence of Mr Ljajic to repeat yesterday's request that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy directs the work inspector in the Great Plan to check the working conditions of the "DIS Market" supermarkets, based in Krnjevo, Pax Market, based in Paracino and Coca, based in Smederev, as well as in Chinese stores in the Great Plan. Employees in these facilities whom I have contacted over the past few months have repeatedly argued that they are exposed to numerous abuses that could be subject to the provisions of the labour abuse law, which we have discussed in the morning work of the session. I also urge the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to positively resolve the request of the Municipality of the Great Plan to appoint the Great Plan as the headquarters of one labour inspector. What's this about? The Danube district has three labour inspectors: one has headquarters in Smederevo, two in Smederjevska Palanca. The Smederjevska Palanka is hardly anything bigger than the Great Plana, and it really doesn't make any sense that there are two inspectors in the Smederjevska Palanca and none in the Great Plana. I would like to draw attention to the Minister's attention that the Municipality of the Great Plan, in order to address this problem, is ready to place a fully equipped office to the inspector, to cover all the work costs of the office, and to cover the costs of the travel of the inspector from Smederjevska Palanka to the Great Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41017	The People's MPs Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Elvira Kovac and joint MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted the 2nd amendment. Mrs. Kovac wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41018	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment in the same form, which we wanted to delete from the proposed legislative text that the provisions of this law apply to short-term volunteering. The ministry has rejected this amendment, but I would like to point out that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has been working to significantly improve this text has adopted the amendment, and I hope now that we will hear from the legislator that it is also accepted, which concerns Article 3 and in which it is added: "Operating ad hoc activities of general interest, for the general good or for the benefit of a third party, which does not last longer than ten hours a week, for a maximum period of 30 days, without interruptions or interruptions during the calendar year". This amendment of the Committee of Resorbs states that this law will apply both to long-term and short-term volunteering, but if it is indeed a shorter, ad hoc activity that excessive regulation of normatives and administrations would be very burdensome. That is why we have improved this proposal in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41019	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41020	Excuse me, we have two amendments to that same one. Is that at point 2) or point 6)? It's different with me. Article 3, but which point? (President: Article 2 paragraph 3) Okay, then I'll do it, and my colleague will do it at point six. Article 3 speaks of what is not considered to be a volunteer in the sense of this law. This point 2) of the bill states that "in volunteering is not considered work outside work, in accordance with the law". We think this is way too wide. You can't say that it's not volunteering all that's work out of working relationships. We offer a more precise provision to the legislator, in order to make this clearer and to avoid abuse. We suggest that point 2) reads: “Operation of jobs that, given the nature and type of work, or the authority of employers, have characteristics of jobs for which a working relationship is established in accordance with the Labour Act. ” Here we clearly specify which work outside of working relationships cannot be considered as volunteering.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41021	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Bojan Mladenovic and joint MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41022	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, it would be good to clarify some things at the beginning of the debate on the volunteering law so that the debate goes in the right direction. It seems to me that if we don't clear that up, it won't work out the way it's supposed to. Mr. Minister, I call on you to carefully read Article 2 paragraph 1, what volunteering is – volunteering, in the sense of this law, is organized voluntary service provision or activities. That's what it says in Section 1. We have suggested that Article 3(6) is deleted because you wrote in Article 3(1): "By volunteering, within the meaning of this law, is not considered", and in point 6) – "to do the business of the Red Cross of Serbia which is related to achieving the objectives and tasks in accordance with the law and other regulations". In your explanation, you called for the Statute and the Red Cross Act. The Red Cross Act mentions volunteering. This is Article 1: “The Red Cross is a humanitarian, independent, nonprofit and voluntary organization. ” That's what Article 1 says. The Red Cross Act. The Statute of the Red Cross, on page 4 – one of the principles of work of the Red Cross, is volunteering. It's a voluntary relief movement that doesn't trigger a desire to gain benefits. Mr. Minister, you at point 6 of the Red Cross activity do not consider volunteering, referring to laws already in force, to volunteering. I don't understand if you want to derail the Red Cross Act or you want to change the Red Cross Act? That's one dilemma. Do you want the Red Cross volunteers to disappear, to have someone call for a law on volunteering and say, "Here, we don't need more volunteers in the Red Cross, because the law on volunteering treats that working in the Red Cross is not volunteering"? Should we completely disprove the volunteering and humanitarian action of this organization? Or maybe it's something third, to hire some people instead of volunteers who will benefit materially from the Red Cross? It's completely unclear to me. We need to get this straight. In view of the applicable laws, to the Red Cross Act, to the Statute of the Red Cross, I think this point 6) where the Red Cross is exempt from the concept of volunteering is completely pointless. So we wrote that this point 6 is deleted. I think that's a perfectly reasonable solution. Like this, this law completely devises the Red Cross. That principle of every Red Cross in the world, volunteering, humanity, volunteering, that's the meaning of the Red Cross everywhere in the world. What do you want, to get him out of the volunteering law? I think it's perfectly okay for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41023	Mr. Rasim Ljajic has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41024	In the principle debate, I talked about the reasons why volunteering is not considered activities of the Red Cross. The explicit request of representatives of the Red Cross who participated in the draft law was that they were not subject to the provisions of this volunteering law because, as I said, the provisions of the Law on the Red Cross of Serbia and the international rules on the activities of volunteers within the Red Cross. We respected this, and that is why we cited that fact in Article 3 under point 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41025	Thank you. Mrs. Donka Banovic called, and so did you. Do you, Mr. Dimitrievich, want to go first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41026	Thank you. I have no doubt what you said, Mr. Minister. I refer to the applicable Red Cross Act, which in Article 1... To me, it's simply a fragrant fact that the President of the Red Cross can say such things. Let's see who this man is who doesn't need volunteers? Then who does he need, a full-time employee? Is that the meaning of the Red Cross? This is completely pointless. You should have known the Red Cross Act and said it wasn't right. Who's going to work within the Red Cross? Who's going to work in those soup kitchens? Do you want to pay people for that, too? Accept this amendment, completely reasonable. What the president of the Red Cross said was completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41027	Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41028	When I spoke in principle, I cited the data for last year, that last year there were 60,000 occasional volunteers and 10,000 permanent volunteers working in the Red Cross organization, so it's not right that the law on volunteering says that the Red Cross activities will not be considered volunteering. It's kind of... I don't mean the Minister specifically, but I think the MPs are being deceived. I also spoke in principle, last month, in April, we received a Red Cross report on the 2009 work, a report on all their activities. When this law came on the agenda we got a lot of reports; some reports we get to read, some don't, and this one I took to look at just because of this law. The 2009 Red Cross report lists some priorities. They say that one of the most significant activities was their involvement in creating appropriate legal regulations as the basis for Red Cross activities. They state here a few laws that, I think even this year, we adopted in the Assembly, and that they are satisfied with their role and position in those laws. I will state them: Transfusion Act, Public Health Act, Transport Safety Act, Emergency and Civil Protection Act. They are satisfied with the way they are treated in these laws. They then state that the Red Cross of Serbia is adequately represented in the draft law on volunteering. Of course, they probably had some bill at the time (I know there were more variations) and in their report they say they are very pleased with their position in the draft law on volunteering. What they thought, and what they told you, I don't know, but somehow we MPs feel like someone tried to deceive someone. We're staying with that basic idea. We believe that the Red Cross is an organization whose actions should be, among other things, covered by the law on volunteering, not just by some of their only laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41029	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41030	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I'm simply fraternised by what you said the President of the Red Cross said. That's amazing to me. You have a valid law. Mr. Minister, why is the law being passed? To regulate the will of an individual. If it's an individual's will to derogate the law, then what is the President of the Red Cross for? Because that president of the Red Cross and the furniture he's running are going to put an end to the law of the Red Cross, to depose volunteering, to disenfranchise humanity. What's this about? You could see it in this law. This wasn't supposed to go with a proposal like this in the Assembly. Please, really, do something to delete this point 6. It's completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41031	Mr. Minister, come in. Mr. Rasim Ljajic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41032	As you know, the Red Cross is an international organization and in every country it works under the same conditions and the same rules. We respected what the representatives of the Red Cross asked of us. As you've heard, they've been adequately represented in making this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41033	Mr. Dimitrievich, please. Your task force has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41034	Mr. Minister, I refer to the applicable Red Cross Act. The President of the Red Cross can't change the law that was passed. Where's that, where's the land? Make a wish and you accept his wish. What about the law? We'll throw him away.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41035	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 3. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41036	I accept this amendment to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41037	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41038	I'm using, Madam President, the time of the parliamentary group. This amendment to the Committee which introduces ad hoc activities of general interest for the general good or for the benefit of a third party is some kind of compromise. I will not call it rotten, but obviously only possible at this time, because of the fact that this law applies both to short-term and long-term volunteering, as it says in Article 2, but also to the fact that the law introduces and registers, records, reporting, signing of a contract, confirmation, etc. It's the fact that the President of the Red Cross asked him not to refer to the Red Cross volunteering, because this law is too ferocious and introduces bureaucracy into an area where there is no room. Of course he's... This is my guess, I didn't talk to him, but I listen to what Minister Ljajic says, who speaks Bosnian, as well as my colleague, and I understand him well. A man was horrified when he saw what you wrote in the law, so he said – please, this law does not apply to me that I would not have to keep track of tens of thousands of volunteers of the Red Cross. That's why I'm saying that even though... By the way, you didn't have to run away from the word "voluntary" and write "ad hoc", when we have already introduced a new category; we have long-term and short-term, and it could be called occasional volunteering. Why would it be “ad hoc” or “soc” activities of general interest, why are you running away from the term “voluntation”, “temporary volunteering”? This definition that was adopted on the Committee absolutely corresponds to something that is occasionally. Then we'd have three kinds of volunteering. This occasional volunteering does not apply to these bureaucratic gaps that you have foreseen for long-term and short-term volunteering. The consequences will be that in the practice of the short term there will be no. There will be long-term volunteering and this occasional volunteering called what's called, but questions remain open, Mr. Minister. Since you seem to care a lot about this record, how will you keep a record if the organizers of volunteering, just to avoid this record (not everyone as powerful as the President of the Red Cross, so let's say, avoid me with this law), join volunteers temporarily in their organizations and then not be obliged to provide you with that record, issue certificates etc? I believe many will do so only to avoid what you have imposed on them by this law. I'm saying again, we're not against records, we're just saying that it's for long-term volunteering, but not for the short term. All right, now with ad hoc activity she won't be worth it. It'll all come down to it. It'll be recorded in the long run. I'm going to ask you another question - what is the validity of this record that you're going to collect if it doesn't apply to volunteers of the Red Cross, if it doesn't apply to volunteers in NGOs? Somehow, volunteering is a synonym for the civil sector. There are 60-90% activists volunteers, free work, SOS phone, work this, work that etc. And it's not about volunteering to political party activists. How, then, are you going to make this record, which, in fact, from the Red Cross, will further exclude, measure, say, the social and economic contribution of volunteering, or the economic contribution, or the social one? It's going to be completely lame data. You just made a papasy with that... I don't know if it's stubbornness or ignorance. Somehow it seems more like ignorance than stubbornness. I'm not talking about you, you're a minister and a political person, you don't need to know, but they need to know about you. You didn't want to accept any amendments coming from the ruling majority. Come on, you don't want to accept ours, so to understand, then it would be stubbornness, but this kind of looks like ignorance, not understanding what volunteering means, how important it is and how different it is from something that's a working relationship, etc. I don't think anyone who stands behind this law, in a professional sense, understands volunteering. That's why I advise you... It's a good thing some kind of compromise was made, it's better this way than it was at first. I advise you to continue working with people who are much more and much better aware of what volunteering is, in order to improve this in a way that needs to be fixed, because volunteering is really important for a society and ultimately recommendations from Europe say volunteering is something that contributes to economic and social cohesion of society. Young people volunteer, they have free time, they want to learn something, they want to be alone. That's one way to faster self-restraint. Old people, pensioners, they have time, accumulated experience. Volunteering helps them feel useful still. Come on, adapt in the future, if not this law, then some changes or activities, something more civil sector, and less rigid, bureaucratic working relationship, which I think is this law. It's okay when we put in these ad hoc activities, which are not related to these bureaucratic obligations that you've foreseen for short-term and long-term volunteering, but to avoid this being a rotten compromise, you work a little bit with those who understand more about volunteering in the next period. I think it'll be both pleasure and pleasure for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41039	Mr. Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not that it's not a rotten compromise, but it's such a rotten compromise that it stinks to the sky. It is the only expression I can use and I will insist on protecting the Serbian language and I will insist that foreign words and expressions cannot be forced into Serbian. I just asked you what "adhoc" means in Serbian and what "adhoc" means in terms of this law. According to Vujaklia, "ad hoc" means – just for now, just for this case for this occasion, for this occasion. When you put that into this law, that means "for now" activities of general interest. It doesn't mean anything. Other meaning: performance of ‘for this case’ activities of general interest. It doesn't mean anything. Performing “for this opportunity” activities of general interest – does not mean anything. Well, it can't be of general interest from chance to opportunity. Performing "for this occasion" activities of general interest – also means nothing. Badly, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you were just advised by Gordana Comic. You can't interrupt me for taking my political stand. So I can challenge the existence of Bosnian. I have the right to challenge the existence of Bosniak language. Just now, Mr Ostojic said that my esteemed colleague Kenan Hajdarevic speaks Bosnian and that he understands him well. Kenan Hajdarevic said – because it is the same language, but it is otherwise called. But we can't let... It is the obligation of all of us in the National Assembly, no matter how we feel, to guard the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, to guard what our ancestors left us. Mr. Rasim Ljajic can feel like a Bosniak, perhaps his consciousness evolved, did not feel that way 30 years ago, but that does not mean that we can leave the Serbian language to him or Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, or Milo Djukanovic, or anyone else. It is my right to say that the Montenegrin language does not exist, that the Bosniak language does not exist and that the Bosnian language does not exist. If you say otherwise, here, I would ask Mr Ostojić, since we are talking about the law, let us hear the Bosnian law say, as the law says in Bosniak, as the law is said in Montenegrin? And the same is the law. Because they're made up languages. There's only Serbian. Do you think someone can kidnap English when they speak English in America to say - it's American? Or, when in another country he speaks English in order to speak – it's now... I don't know which one either. Of course he can't. That's what this is all about. Let us have someone translate, here, the Committee on Labour, Fight and Social Affairs, to hear what it says in Bosnian, Bosniak, Montenegrin. You're trying to do something that is contrary to the interests of all of us, which is contrary to the interests of the Serbian state. Then you relativize it, and you're undermining something new and modern. We can't give up tradition, we can't give up everything that makes us Serbs. This is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, so let us have the right to protect what is ours. We do not deny the right to anyone, Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic can say – I feel like a Bosnian or I feel like a Bosniak, but let us not allow that feeling of him to be at the expense of the language that a Serb person takes up for himself. It's not something that's naive. Look at how new nations are made. Thirty years ago, people laughed at the mention of the Montenegrin nation. What language did He write? Did he write Montenegrin? No, he wrote in Serbian. That Montenegro was only a destination for geographical origin, for location. He was considered a Serb, as well as many others. That's what the point is. He now insists on the words "Vojvodjanski". You've introduced the Duke Academy of Sciences and Arts, then the Duke's Police, then the Duke's Log, then the Duke's Log, and this and the Duke's Log. Do you think in ten or twenty years someone won't say, who's growing up now - wait, I'm not a Serb, I'm a Duchess? Vojvodjan autonomy, autonomy from Austria because they felt like Serbs, and you slowly implant in people's consciousness that they are the Vojvodjans. What duchess, people? Is there a difference? It is a political attitude and it is an ideology, but we have the right to express it. It's our ideology, the ideology of the Serbian Radical Party. There is no difference between Serbs from Montenegro, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, from Kosovo and Metohija, from Šumadia or Belgrade. We have the right to say so and to oppose the rape of Serbian language and the abduction of Serbian language. It can't be who comes through to say, to make up a new name and say – now it's this language. Give me a dictionary. Translate the word ‘law’. Translate – The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs in another language without us understanding it. Dear colleague Kenan Hajdarevic said it was the same language we call otherwise. Please don't call it anything else, it's Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41041	Mr. Sarovic, I haven't interrupted you, but on behalf of the largest number of MPs and citizens of Serbia, I intervened. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41042	Dear President, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. I think you should have interrupted Mr. Sarovic's distinguished counterpart in his presentation because he directly insulted all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who speak Bosnian, who feel like members of the Bosniak people, or national minorities, and Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and me and other MPs. I think you should have intervened and not let someone discuss it like this. No one can, because it's called Nemanja, that it has more rights and that it feels more of Serbia with its own country than we are called Rasim, Kenan or any other way. Serbia belongs to all its citizens. The Liberal Democratic Party, I, as an MP of the Liberal Democratic Party, feel this way and so represent the interests of all citizens, whether in Serbian or Bosnian, it is decided by the Constitution, the law of this country. As long as the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia allow me to call my language Bosnian, I will do so. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41043	No basis for replication, all criticism was sent to me. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can get a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I have to answer to Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic. I think I've reacted, and citizens should see that there are hard-core attitudes sometimes. Let them evaluate such behavior. I am convinced that what you said feels the vast majority of Serbia and I am very proud of it. Mr. Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41044	I have a replica of Mr. Sarovic's speech, and he had the advantage of reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41045	Excuse me, he has an advantage over you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41046	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I am reporting in accordance with article 101, which says that the right to the replica has the MP whose name and name was mentioned, or function, and Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic mentioned my name and last name and misread my presentation. He said, and we're all witnesses, we can check in the stenogram, that in some way I compromised his rights by not allowing him to call his language Bosnian. He can call his tongue whatever he wants, but I won't let him call the Serbian language Bosnian. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you said that what he feels is felt by the vast majority of Serbian citizens. Here, I accept, I may be a minority, but allow me as a representative of the minority, which are Serbs in Serbia more and more every day, and allow me to make some argument. The Bosnian language does not even exist in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is there a Bosnian language in England? Did England recognize him? In this modern Europe, what do you seek? Is France, Spain, any state? (President: You will have to bring your presentations in connection with the amendments on the agenda. ) This is according to the Rules of Procedure, and I explain in what way my exposure was misread, and what was actually my core intention, and I think I made that clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41047	On many occasions, in a clear way. Mr. Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41048	Mr. Sarovic, you obviously do not know the Constitution of Serbia, nor the Law on the Protection of Minority Rights. Again, for the second time you call our letter, the Serbian letter Cyrillic, and the Constitution says it's Cyrillic. If you are such a Serb, at least use the constitutional name of the letter. Two, the Bosnian language exists when those who are Bosniaks call it that. It does not challenge Kenan Hajdarevic for you to speak Serbian. I speak Serbian, and he speaks Bosnian. What's so controversial about that? He does not challenge us to speak Serbian, so why should we challenge him to speak Bosnian? Remember, Cyrillic. It's in the Constitution, not Cyrillic. Start changing your language, because your linguists said that's how it should be written in the Constitution. And you and the citizens of Serbia, remember, from now on, since the constitution was brought in, the night and two days when you voted, you voted for our letter to be called Cyrillic. Correct the children, because their linguists in the newsroom came up with that. All these decades we have spoken wrong, we Serbs have spoken wrong and called our letter, and now some Serbs will determine how others speak. I don't think it contributes to democracy, to reason, to this House's dignity. Finally, we're talking about the amendment, it says, Mr. Ljajic, "ad hoc" on the Latin in Cyrillic text. Mr. Sarovic, "adhoc" is not Bosnian. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41049	There's no basis for replication, since it's just a quoted constitution. Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41050	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm very sorry that we lost so much time these days, I had no intention of speaking. I can see that we're getting carried away and now we're discussing what's right in the Constitution, which isn't, as it's said, right and wrong, etc. There are many amendments here that may not even be of interest to anyone, and the laws that have been passed are specific at this time; the law on volunteering is so important to Serbia at this time that I really don't know where we'd be without this law, especially the law against the abuse of workers. We say that the moment we have big problems in the country. If you follow, if you've been following the performances of our leaders in power this morning, you see for yourself, the euro wild, the wild fuel, the seeds are gone, and you're laughing, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Now we might be discussing some gay parade again, and that wouldn't surprise me, that's an interesting topic for you. Here, the law on volunteering - I don't even know what the purpose of lawmaking is at this point and whether it's such an important law at this point, when we expect the current Minister, Mr Ljajic, to still launch some serious topics. This morning we listen to the prime minister who said the crisis has passed, that there is no crisis in Serbia anymore. Some of our top economists at the National Bank say this is a difficult time, which we will have a hard time getting through. The people are confused. He's watching parliament, he's having fun here, and we're talking Cyrillic and what's important and what's said and who's right, who's wrong, who's wrong, who's wrong, etc. Please, Mr. Minister, let us put these serious topics that life means for Serbia on the agenda. It is impossible for this government and this parliament to allow individuals to do literally whatever they want in the country. You see, now we're moving some officers from the Ministry of Agriculture, people are traveling, they're coming here to the Assembly, you coward, every day they have to travel to Shabac and come back, they're going to work and they're coming home from work from Capca. Some will have to travel to Nis, and some will have to go back to Uzice during the day, because someone has decided to make something that suits him at this time and that those who have been employed for years and do their job are harassing in the most brutal way. Imagine a mother who has little children, and we're talking about abuse in the workplace. How's that? People have to quit, they have to quit, they have to quit, and some party people are gonna be there. Do you know how many people lost their jobs because they were party members who weren't in power now or someone came and told them he was no longer interested in them? Do you know that in the Ministry of Telecommunications, sixty, seventy graduate engineers with over ten years of employment were fired without any explanation? Not to talk about it now, some judges, which these days has been fiercely debated... Without any explanation, people who are unsuitable get fired, especially in the ministries, where we have ministers who receive only their party people. I was recently in a small municipality, Raca Kragujevac, where Mrs Kalanovic held a letter and told the president of the municipality – you want us to do something for you, come to our regional gathering; if you do not come, there is nothing, there is no dinar, we will move your equipment bought by a certain company, "Jura", in Nis, you have nothing. What's the matter? People started coming, going, etc. Those blackmails from the top of the government are more unsustainable. We're here to discuss whether any privates there in any commission or butik abuses or harassing a worker, etc., to protect him legally, and we have it at the highest state level. Do you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, know that you have your people working in two, three public enterprises in a permanent working relationship? You don't know that. If you're interested, I'll give you the information. They're receiving three salaries and all the salaries are huge. Do you know that in companies that are the biggest losers people receive tens of thousands of euros, seven thousand, five thousand, six thousand euros, and you tolerate and protect... (President: Mr. Ilicic, just come a little closer to the topic, i.e. The amendment. I'll be back, all these amendments wanted something to line up as much as they did, but nobody accepts them, they don't discuss it. Accept something, but it's all minor and insignificant. We now have prices of energy that grow enormously and the people cannot survive. The set can't be done. The other day we read that the salaries of 13,000 euros are in one of the public enterprises where the director, our colleague here, renounces 900,000 for humanitarian purposes. It's nowhere in the world. And there's about 50 other executives there. Imagine, that martyr can't pay, we make him pay, and then he's a benefactor, he says, "Here, people, there's a lot, here's half for humanitarian purposes, give it to the poor, someone who needs it." That's why I wanted to talk about topics that are very interesting. I think the minister agrees with my discussion. I've been following his statements very often... (President: Please, the topics you're talking about are interesting, but they're really not on the agenda. Yes, Madam President, the subject is so... volunteering, I don't know what it means at this point in Serbia, volunteering somewhere... It takes a parent's consent to go somewhere to volunteer, right? It's such a strong subject. I am disturbed by our prime minister's statement this morning, and a statement by the finance minister, five people, a statement by the vice governor, a statement by the future governor. These are topics that I'm interested in, which are much stronger than these topics and that no one here is discussing, that no one is interested in. (President: There are business opportunities for these topics to come to the agenda. The parliamentary majority has been defined for this topic. I'm sorry to interrupt... Just one more minute. (President: please, one more minute.) ) Come on, promise us, when these topics will come to order. Here... . (President: Please take advantage of the business option. You have the right to suggest a day for a specific topic. The government is every last Thursday of the month, you can ask government members anything you want to know. So there's business opportunities. I'm really asking you to go back to the agenda. There are possibilities, but you don't give those opportunities, believe me. I'm very sorry to tell you this, but we don't have the opportunity to discuss it. We can't discuss any serious subject that life means. Large works have been promised, infrastructure facilities, construction starts on March 1st. Where's Dulic now to explain why he doesn't start? The first March passed a long time ago. Now comes the World Cup, vacations, this year's gone, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41051	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Travar.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41052	Madam Chairman, I would like to advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 103, and I would only ask you to return our colleagues to the agenda topic. I think it's correct on your part and on the side of all of us, as a colleague, who, I believe, is the goal of really doing what we're paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41053	Thank you. Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41054	I'll probably give up, but I have to point out that I wanted to advertise the violation of Article 103(1) to quote it – the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Of course we're all aware of the questions, but I'd like to point out, for the sake of the public, that we are here today discussing the details of the volunteering law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41055	I thank my colleagues. Similarly, obviously, we graded, and I think I intervened. Mr. Sarovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41056	Finally. (President: Just tell me what the basis is. ) The time of the parliamentary group, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic. So let's finally get back to this debate that's on the agenda. (President: Yes, but you've wasted your time, you must wait for some amendment of yours, if there is one. Thank you. How much time do we have? It's been seven minutes. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41057	In the heat of the debate, you've wasted your time, and you haven't recorded it yourself. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41058	Thank you. This amendment requires that Article 5 be changed somewhat by changing, or supplementing the principle of solidarity in volunteering. In particular, this amendment requires that the term ‘equal opportunities’ is not contained in the text of this Article. It is true that Article 15. The constitution knows and uses the term "equal opportunities", saying that the state is developing a policy of equal opportunities. That's no one slows down in this case. However, what does the term “equal opportunities ” mean in this law? First, if it continues to this extent, as in bankruptcy proceedings, in mafia privatisations, the appearance that so many workers are losing their jobs, then this will be a volunteer state. On the one hand there will be volunteers, on the other hand there will be those who care about these volunteers and, of course, with the inevitable and through the necessary state administration, it will be those who work in this country. What are the equal opportunities you stand for? If we use a little freedom through comparatives, to compare these equal opportunities with these volunteers and those who bought more than half of Serbia... You know, in the U.S., newly-roasted rich people used to fear tax controls when controlling their first million. I believe that today's newly-roasted tycoons that bought half of Serbia should be checked for the first, tenth, hundred million, and that in fact one should whisper to this government that it is far more important to come under the term "equal opportunities"...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41059	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Honorable Ministers, by supporting Mr. Munjic's amendment, I would refer to this law, which the government is called upon to be practically part of the constitutional category, although it is absolutely not seen exactly what this is all about... Supporting what Mr. Velimir Ilic said here on several occasions, mentioning the law, when he has been unjustly repeatedly warned that he is not in the topic, I, Mr. Minister, will tell you one thing. We in Serbia have 80% of people who work today and are practically volunteering. They're fictitiously employed, they're supposed to receive personal incomes, but they're basically volunteers. Did you feel sorry for those people the other day at the "Shamote"? I purposely mention "Shamot" because the election campaign in Arangelovac is over. People who are desperate, who have been crying for five, six, seven years and don't receive any personal income, are volunteers, Mr. Minister. There's going to be some bankruptcy, someone's going to privatize it, and people are going to stay on the street. Mr. Minister, the time of work in this country has long been completed. We keep saying we want to go to Europe, and we're going back to some institutes of the past. I'm sure young people need to learn in some way during school and prepare for some activities, but at this point, it seems to me that this category of volunteering is absolutely meaningless. It is mentioned here that in highly developed countries this is a great thing, but we are currently practically in the phase of the aggregate state, where every worker in Serbia is a volunteer. This is the situation at the moment in the King’s Magnochroma. I would ask you, 350 people currently working at Magnochroma are trying to do something, especially in that part that the state is holding back at the moment and not allowing, although they have quite solid results on the market. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you to do something about the Magnochrom factory. Some shifts people have absolutely, they have union letters that want to overcome the crisis. Don't let people be volunteers there if they try and even have great opportunities on the market. I'd wait until that day to ask you, you or the Secretary of State, when there are questions, but, Madam President, you just said that we have the last Thursday of the month. I personally told Mr. Prime Minister here that several times ministers who aren't competent come, we don't have that option. Just tell us, which of the competent ministers here last Thursday when they were parliamentary issues? We absolutely couldn't ask questions because they were ministers who weren't in favour of the area. You know very well that there were only four or five ministers, we can get a stenogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41061	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41062	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 8, in your first position, you wrote: “No volunteering is forbidden in order to obtain profits. “ We intervened by putting it here that it was forbidden to organise volunteering in order to gain financial gain, material gain. Of course, it is quite clear what your position 1 in Article 8 refers to – you are talking about financial, material gain. There are other types of profits, which are not financial and material, but are in any case going with volunteering. That's what a volunteer and one who is a user, in this case, let's say, someone who gets a whole other kind; he feels a whole society. So we're, I mean, totally right because we're on the verge of volunteering. A volunteer can't gain financial gain, but he can win any other kind. That's the essence of volunteering. You don't expect someone to volunteer without a profit of their own, do you? My profit in volunteering is to give someone else some help. It's a win. That's why we felt it was necessary to distinguish what's at stake here and we thought we were quite clear when we said we weren't going to make a financial profit. When you responded, you told us: “Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the concept of profit is wider than the concept of financial gain.” That's exactly why we intervened. It is wider. We're talking about that there's another kind of gain that everyone in the volunteering chain will get, but they won't get financial help. You further say – these members of the law are prohibited from organised volunteering in order to obtain financial and any other profits. No, just financial gains. You can't rule out volunteering getting his own personal satisfaction. And that's profit. You can't rule out volunteering getting some kind of education. It's a win. So you're saying -- financial gain, material gain. That's why I think we're right and our amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41063	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Nikola Lazic. Mrs Stojanović Plassic first.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41064	I applied for the previous amendment to realize that he was adopted and that perhaps we shouldn't talk about him. I think I can say a few words within the time of the parliamentary group. I really thank the Ministry for having heard this amendment, because I believe it shows, in fact, one solution that is in line with European practice and can make a significant contribution to improving volunteer work in Serbia. What I particularly want to point out, and I think that you will allow me a few minutes, is that both the Ministry and Parliament have shown this a good example of how parliamentary democracy should function in Serbia, given the fact that I have submitted this amendment to the association of citizens from Leskovec, who I asked for a comment of the law when it entered the assembly procedure. I think this is really a good practice, because it has often happened before that the ministries are exclusive and that they do not want to accept a large number of amendments coming from parliament. On the other hand, citizens rarely give suggestions. I want to contribute to yesterday's debate on who can submit the amendment. Of course MPs can submit amendments, but citizens are also invited to contact their MPs and make suggestions and remarks when they think the law can change. I believe that this is how we strengthen parliamentary democracy and parliament as an institution, but also trust in the executive power that citizens can have. In that sense, I would like to thank the People's Parliament Association of Leskovec, which has given a suggestion for this amendment and the Ministry that has respected the citizens' suggestion. I call on other citizens to use parliament like this as their own house.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41065	Ms. Donka Banovic, by amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41066	This is what I was talking about when I was talking about the law in principle, and I don't think it's a good thing that the biller ruled out the possibility of a person under 15 being a volunteer. That's how you rule out all the kids in primary schools, and that's not good. I believe that in this early age and how children should be raised, or students about the importance of volunteering, or voluntary work, and how important it is to help others. Since it's been sacred and centuries in schools, it's been organized so-called. peer assistance and education. Groups are organized where one of the better or best students in a class helps students in their department to master material, and that is how help and benefit for that school. With this amendment, we expanded Article 11 and very precisely determined under which, very clear, conditions a person who is under 15 can be a volunteer. For a short period of time, I will read this position that we propose: "A minor person under the age of 15 can be involved in performing educational and educational volunteering activities aimed at general and training for volunteering, only for the purpose of raising and education, in a way that contributes to its development and socialization, provided that the organizer of volunteering is an educational institution, an institution of social assistance or another legal person who organises volunteering for educational and educational purposes. “ We think it’s too late and we shouldn’t expect that when a man turns 15 or 18, he first encounters what voluntary work or volunteering means and that we have very precisely determined, so there could be no abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41067	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41068	Since the most amendments were made to this article, we have sought to accept these amendments, which were practically contained in the Committee's amendment, respecting some of the restrictive elements contained above all in the Law on Primary Schools and the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. This Article 11 would have the position of 3: "A person under the age of 15 may be involved in carrying out educational and training volunteer activities in accordance with the rules on education and education and ratification of international conventions. “ We think it is a compromise variant that would contain the largest number of amendments proposed to this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41069	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41070	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has proposed that the lower age limit for volunteering persons be 15 years. On behalf of the SRS, I proposed that the border be raised to 18 years. We feel that volunteering should only be allowed for adulthood. There are two types of volunteering, i.e. Voluntary work. The first is voluntary work for human reasons and working for humanitarian purposes, for example, working in health and social institutions. Voluntary work for the general social benefit, such as the work of thousands of young Belgradeers at the time of the Olympics, is working out of love, ideally, and for the SRS there is no problem for minors to participate in. However, the voluntary work spoken of by this law is quite different, completely contrary to true voluntary work. It is free work among employers who provide them with less or greater property benefits. It's not a work of persuasion and ideals. It's not voluntary work. It's a work of urgency, of despair. It's an attempt by people who don't have a job to maybe find him. That is why I believe that such work, such engagement should only be allowed to the full-time persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41071	Members of the 11th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Elvira Kovac, Miljan Rangelovic and joint MPs Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41072	Thank you, Madam President. Article 11(2) therefore states: “A person under the age of 18 can volunteer with the written consent of a legal representative or guardian. “ We have responded to this “legal counsel. ” We felt that it was in the spirit of language and that the word “parent ” should be mentioned. I somehow notice that lately the word “parent ” has become less and less used in the laws, and more and more of the other words that you are referring to the Family Law, that it determines that way. I simply think that the word "parent" and that it has great importance and great weight and must be found in the laws. This is a very difficult time, a really complicated social situation, and it is very important that parents, their obligations, and what parenthood carries with it are marked in the laws. That is why we felt it was very important to use the word “parent ” instead of this faceless “legal representative” (perhaps it is legal, but it is very impersonal) here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41073	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41074	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41075	The amendment is accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton, then Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41076	Dear fellow MPs, several good amendments have been submitted to the draft law on volunteering. The number of amendments indicates that the bill is not good and that it has to be corrected. Several amendments were accepted by the government, but a number of amendments were not accepted, although these amendments would certainly correct this legislative proposal. Of course, if all the amendments that want to be amended were accepted, the law would no longer look like itself, and since there are many objections and the law is not good, perhaps the law should not look like itself. Dear fellow Members of the People, our parliamentary group has tabled several amendments to this legislative proposal on volunteering with the aim of fixing it. Some amendments have been accepted, but most of the good amendments have not been adopted. The Voluntary Law should certainly be given because it is what they are asking us to do from the European Union. We agree that there's a law of volunteering to be passed, but the law doesn't have to look like this. Our amendment is submitted to Article 11. where we add Article 3, which reads: “Volunteers cannot work on jobs that are life-threatening and health-threatening or are being carried out in conditions of life and health. “ We feel that it is necessary to prohibit volunteering in dangerous jobs. This amendment has not been accepted by the Government, on the grounds that ‘the bill provides that the volunteer is not obliged to volunteer in accordance with the instructions of the volunteer organisation if the execution of the instruction can endanger the life and health of volunteers, the user of volunteering or other persons’, etc. It's okay, and it's true. Therefore, the law stipulates that a volunteer is not obliged to volunteer if volunteering can endanger the health and life of volunteers or the user of volunteering services. Since volunteering, according to this legislative proposal, and 15-year-olds, and it is now accepted that younger people can do so, these are persons without previous work experience, persons who do not have enough knowledge of volunteering jobs cannot be allowed to be those persons, volunteers who will assess whether the job entrusted to them with volunteering is harmful to their health or not. The organizer of volunteering is the one who knows the nature of the work being done, has knowledge, has experience and on the basis of his knowledge and experience will assign or not assign to volunteers. We feel it is necessary to prohibit the work of volunteers on dangerous business. There's no need to explain it any further. We propose the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41077	Mr. Igor Becic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41078	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to add Article 11 to Article 3, which reads: "Volunteers cannot work on life and health dangerous jobs or are being carried out in conditions of life and health. “ The proposal does not prescribe a ban on volunteering at work or in conditions of life and health, although volunteer work is unacceptable from the point of view of volunteer safety and in terms of work and safety at work. The performance of such tasks and the working conditions of life and health under regulations may be carried out only by specially trained persons of appropriate psychophysical capacity, under special conditions of protection and with the right to an unfettered working experience. These conditions are certainly not met by volunteers. Contrary to the need for volunteers to be protected from such jobs, Article 27(1) of the proposal provides for the possibility of volunteering on jobs carried out under life and health-threatening conditions, with the sole obligation to be secured in the event of injury or occupational illness. An amendment proposing an appropriate amendment to this Article has therefore been tabled. We believe that there is no reason to further explain the need for a ban on volunteer work on dangerous jobs, and we propose that this amendment be adopted. In this respect, it must certainly be borne in mind that the Constitution lays down the right to safe and healthy working conditions, as one of the basic human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41079	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41080	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41081	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 11. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41082	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41083	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Vojić Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41084	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, Article 12(2) of point 3 refers to the users of volunteering. When they are children, persons with disabilities, old faces, persons who need help from other persons, sick persons or persons who are completely or partly deprived of the business ability of volunteering is obliged to handle special attention when selecting and training volunteers. The following point is added: ‘Volution with users referred to in Article 1 cannot be carried out’, in point 3) — ‘in whole or in part devoid of business capacity’. We have responded to this “partly devoid of business ability, ” because here we feel discrimination. We think this is about discrimination against people with disabilities. It is, of course, contrary to all the applicable international rights of persons with disabilities and contrary to some of the laws that we have received here and have passed here. Although, I remember that there were amendments and when we talked about hiring a person with a partial business ability, so I see that it's a tendency of this ministry, that those persons are simply away from being able to volunteer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41085	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Rajkov Gordana has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41086	I'm sorry, I actually just wanted to comment on this amendment to Article 12(3), which was spoken of by a colleague from the DSS. We have also received different opinions from persons with disabilities about this member. After a very detailed debate with them, we concluded that actually the claims that were there were not until the end were correct, because the law is actually trying to provide this member with security for volunteering users belonging to certain vulnerable groups. In that sense, he asks that volunteering services cannot do persons who are deprived, partially or completely, of their business abilities. Of course, persons partially or completely devoid of their business skills are not just disabled persons, others may be. Organizations that gather people with disabilities think it's okay for people who can't assess their own best interest and make decisions about it shouldn't be in a position to do unidentified services for persons who are also in a vulnerable position, such as children, old people, missing persons or persons with disabilities. That's why we thought the solution given in the bill was good, because it also provides protection for the volunteers themselves who have no business capacity and also protection for the persons they work for. Of course, people with disabilities who have certain intellectual damages are therefore deprived of their partial or fully commercial capacity by this law are not deprived of other volunteering services performed in another domain, organized, for the benefit of a common good, environmental, human environment, or anything else that will be organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41087	Thank you, Mrs. Rykov. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Pejcic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Pejcic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41088	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency (I would like to welcome the minister, but is absent), representatives of the government, namely, you yourself noticed that the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have worked very hard on this law and submitted a large number of amendments and thus wanted to correct the text of this law, because there is room for it. I will return to the amendment that we submitted to Article 15. In fact, the amendment speaks of contractual commitments in volunteering. We asked that points 1) to 6 be deleted in this article: in the case of long-term volunteering, with a minor, with non-citizens and non-citizens, with citizens of the Republic of Serbia who volunteer abroad, if the organizer has a seat in the Republic of Serbia, if the users are volunteers from Article 12 of this Act and, under 6), at the request of volunteers, volunteers or volunteering users. In fact, all these points are sublimed in Article 2 which says that this law applies to short-term and long-term volunteering. For these reasons, we think that the points of Article 3 should be deleted and that the contract should be signed in writing, regardless of the type of volunteering.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41089	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, according to the same amendment, and then Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41090	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very important amendment, given that we do not see any reason or reason why the forms in which the volunteering agreements will be concluded are set out. In view of the fact that the draft law highlights a number of very important principles to be applied when it comes to volunteering and volunteering law, such as the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of protection of users of volunteering or prohibiting abuse of volunteering, it is difficult to imagine how these principles will be realised or accompanied by their implementation in the event of an oral volunteering contract. It is really very difficult for these obligations, which are on the side of the user volunteering, which would be concluded in the form that is oral, in this way to successfully implement. How can the person who concluded the oral agreement say that there was no discrimination, that there was no abuse, that all obligations by the organisers of the volunteering were realized? So it's very important not to isolate the forms of conclusion of this contract and it would absolutely be important for the Ministry to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41091	Here you go, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41092	Ladies and gentlemen, honored citizens, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to amend Article 15 and read: “The organizer of volunteering is obliged to conclude a written contract with the volunteer before the start of volunteering and to keep records of completed contracts. A volunteering agreement with a person under 18 may only be concluded with the written consent of parents, adoptors or guardians. “ Article 15. The proposal was left with the possibility to conclude the volunteering agreement and verbally, resulting from the content of Article 3 which was prescribed that the written contract should be concluded only in certain cases. The conclusion of the oral contract is not acceptable in the light of, above all, the content of the contract referred to in Article 18, which has at least eight mandatory elements and under Article 27 of the Treaty is regulated and the insurance of volunteers, which is certainly not possible to make by oral agreement and in a very reliable way. It is also necessary to take into account the obligations of organisers and volunteers on mutual compensation for damages and damages to third parties resulting from or related to volunteering. Article 31 of the Law also provides for supervision of the application of the law, which would have been carried out in a significantly difficult way in the event of a written contract, as it would be almost impossible to control whether the oral contract and its contents were concluded. The position of volunteers is in everything almost identical to the position of employees, except for the right to earn; the labour contract is necessarily concluded in writing, and this rule should also be applied to volunteers. For all of these reasons, it is necessary that the volunteering agreement is concluded in writing, before the start of volunteering, as well as the contract with minors must be concluded only with the consent of parents, adoptors or guardians, primarily in order to protect the volunteers themselves, legal certainty and the ability of the competent authorities to exercise control over the application of the law, especially for the reasons that volunteers are mostly very young and often minors, whose protection must be given additional attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41093	National MP Otto Kishmarton has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41094	Given that the previous amendment was accepted, the minister would probably accept this as well. Dear fellow Members of the People, it is necessary to have a law on volunteering, because that is what we are asked to do. If we have a number of other laws that don't apply, we can have this law. This law should not be treated as very important to our society, because, when this law is adopted, it will be able to volunteer, or to provide services or to carry out activities of general interest, for the general good or for the benefit of another person, without paying cash compensation or seeking other property benefit. This law will allow for free labour, which should not be paid. When kids graduate from high school, colleges, this law will allow those kids to volunteer, work for free for a year, two, three or more, until they want to be socially useful. Is this the future for our youth – free work? Is this what our youth government offers - to volunteer after school, or to do free work, as many parents do today without pay or for wages not enough to support their family? The goal of this government should be for all children who finish school to get a job, earn enough to create a home, a family, and thus become socially beneficial. When a man has something to live on, he has free time, then he can also do some community service without compensation. Our Serbia will not go forward with Europe, nor without Europe, if instead of an army of unemployed we form an army of volunteers. What can parents say today to children – finish school, and you will be volunteers? Since volunteering, they won't be able to support their family. Today, in this crisis, which hit us twenty years ago and won't let go, it's a little bit of a job and it's a little bit of a working time, not a free day. Dear Members, we have proposed an amendment to Article 15 of this legislative proposal. This article refers to a volunteering contract. Here we suggested that Article 15 be changed: “The organizer of volunteering is obliged to conclude a written contract with the volunteer before the start of volunteering and to keep records of completed contracts. A volunteering agreement with a person under 18 can only be concluded with the written consent of parents, adoptors or guardians." Our amendment requires that the volunteering agreement be concluded in writing. We do not believe, as the government believes, that this is too much formalisation and that it will lead to a negative effect. On the contrary, a volunteer who normally works without compensation for community service will have at least a contract to prove that he volunteered or a thank you for his work. We believe this amendment deserves to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41095	The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41096	I'll be brief, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is quite technical. You saw, it stands in the explanation that you called for, since you refused the amendment. We said he was referring to volunteering contracts. Paragraph 3 states that "the volunteering agreement must be concluded in writing". We suggested that it be “in writing. ” No matter how many arguments you have stated that your position is technically correct, as many arguments can be made for this proposal. It's not a fundamental change, not a change. There are so many legal acts, or documents that use this exact term, and that analogy we ran. We can't really say that this isn't right either, but our vision was that this was technically more correct, so we suggested it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41097	Mr. Secretary has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41098	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41099	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41100	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we felt that a sentence was enough in Article 16: "The long-term volunteering agreement can be concluded with a foreign citizen and a stateless person", without this – giving temporary stay for persons without citizenship in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You see, that raises two questions, Mr. Minister. One question is... At first, by following the continuity of the law, we saw that this law practically abolished volunteering in a broad organization, which has who knows how many volunteers, what the Red Cross is like. On the other hand, you allow foreign citizens and other persons to volunteer with us and you will therefore give citizenship. I understand and understand that you have called for a recommendation from Council of Europe Ministers Committee number R (94) 4 etc. It's completely understandable and justifiable, but there's another thing. I can say this: a member of my family's ropes wanted to volunteer for an important archaeological project in a country that advocates such recommendations, although there are no personnel, experts from that area. He could not get a temporary stay, although these countries recommend the exchange of young people. On the other hand, the same country made Serbia a serious archaeological site in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41101	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41102	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we started in Article 11, we continued in Article 19. This is about a volunteering contract and it is said when the volunteering contract ceases: point 5) - when a legal representative or guardian of a minor volunteer disagrees with the continuation of volunteering. We insisted on it being a parent again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41103	Please, Minister, sign in to the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41104	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is wanted by Parliamentarian Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41106	I want to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. I think the promoter also realized that there's no reason for a volunteer to keep his official secret and confidential and personal information about the very organizer of volunteering. It's one thing to keep confidential and personal information about the volunteering user, but it's not in place when it comes to volunteering because both the general public and the Ministry need to know everything about someone who organizes volunteering and that organization, so there's no place for secrets and keeping secrets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41107	Fifty seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP Alexander Pejcic wants a word. The time available to the parliamentary group is 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41108	I will take the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to thank you for recognising the quality of the solution in this amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia MPs. I wanted to explain to the citizens what this is about, if you'll allow me, Madam Chairman, to specify within these ten seconds what this is all about. In Article 23(3), the volunteer shall not be responsible for the damage caused if he has previously written a written warning to the organiser of the volunteering against such possibility. If a volunteer has writtenly informed the organizer of the volunteering process, I think it's clear to everyone. I'm glad the minister recognized the quality of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41109	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41110	Article 24 states: “The volunteer is responsible for the damage caused by the volunteering, volunteering or third party, in accordance with the rules on work. “ We were in a big dilemma, first of all because the volunteer works without compensation, making no profit materially, and here we will oblige him to have expenditures of material nature. On the other hand, why should volunteering apply to labour regulations? We don't know what was going on here. I understand that it is necessary to ensure the damage that a volunteer can cause, and that damage can be done either to the organizer or to the user of volunteer services, but on the other hand, it is not clear why we commit it to labour regulations and why and how we think it is possible to collect the damage in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41111	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People’s MP Otto Kishmarton called for the word. The time available to the parliamentary group is sixteen minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41112	Dear fellow Members of the People, Article 24 refers to the obligations and responsibilities of volunteers in the event of damage to volunteer services or activities. This amendment lays down responsibility for damage in a clearer way, in accordance with the Law on Liabilities, with the same application of the Labour Act. Given that this amendment has been understood and accepted by the government and it becomes an integral part of the bill, I will not comment further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41113	The National MP Dušanka Plecevic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miljan Rangelovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41114	The President-in-Office, thank you for your word, Your Honor, I intervene for the reasons of my proposed amendment. For what? Because I don't think the amendment is essentially well understood by anyone who's read it in your ministry. The essence of my amendment is that every volunteer is bound to be issued a volunteer certificate. However, what does the justification for the refusal of this amendment say? "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that volunteering is primarily the individual's personal relationship to society, the needs of the community and the well-being of other persons, and too much formalisation can have a negative effect" etc. The essence of this amendment is, in fact, not a volunteer and an organizer of volunteering, but the essence is that there are people who have never been volunteers, who very often talk about their employment, when they represent themselves somewhere or even write a CV, give a list of various projects where participants were involved. They claim they were. Unfortunately, they never were. In fact, this amendment refers to exactly that. If we had to give each volunteer a certificate of volunteering, I am sure that in a period ahead of us, or in the future, we would have interrupted such practice. For every project since 2010 and beyond, when someone says he was involved in a project, he worked, volunteered, however, he would have had to have confirmation in that case. It would make it very easy for all of us to determine the truth, if we knew who we were dealing with. So the essence of this amendment... I understand the explanation if we could understand my amendment in the way someone understood this, but it wasn't the purpose of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41115	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41116	Our amendment to Article 25 at point 2) in the first position is essentially the same as my colleagues, Rangelovic, who previously explained the amendment. The same reasons are listed here where you refused, so you say it's too much formalization and it can have a negative effect. Today, there has been criticism that the law has been exaggerated, that some contracts appear there, etc., but you have not received such criticism from the Democratic Party of Serbia, but from some other parties. We believe that whoever organizes volunteering is obliged to issue a certificate of volunteering, because it can be part of the si-vi tomorrow. You know, sometimes some work ends, so that volunteer can forget it, etc., but that's why the one who organized the volunteering shouldn't forget. There's a piece of paper. That certificate is not what I know, but one piece of paper that anyone who participates as a volunteer in a project will have as a confirmation. It could be very important tomorrow when you're looking for a job. We think that here we should delete "on his request" and then it becomes practically the obligation of the one organising the volunteering.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41117	Members of the 25th Amendment were submitted by MP Elvira Kovac and joint MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, the Progressive Group of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing the erasure of points 1) and 2) in Article 27. Point 1) of Article 27. The bill stipulates that volunteers must be provided for injuries and occupational illness if volunteering is carried out in conditions of life and health. My colleagues before me stated the Serbian Progressive Party's view that volunteers cannot work on jobs that are dangerous to life and health or are being carried out in conditions of life and health, which the minister also accepted by adopting the amendment that we submitted to Article 11. This point should be deleted because it is inadmissible and contrary to the rules on work and safety at work to hire volunteers on such jobs. Jobs in conditions of life and health, according to labour regulations, can only be performed by specially trained persons of appropriate psychophysical capacity, under special conditions of protection and with the right to an unfettered work experience. These conditions, of course, volunteers don't meet. In the opinion of the SNS, point 2) should also be deleted, as insurance in case of injury must be mandatory for all volunteers, and not only for those who possibly require it or contracts. The adoption of the amendment provides mandatory insurance for volunteers due to injury and occupational illness, and I suggest you accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41119	The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41120	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 27 states: “The organizer of volunteering is obliged to provide volunteers for injury and occupational illness during volunteering. ” In point (1), he says: “If volunteering is done in conditions of life and health. ” We have suggested that after the word "health" we add the words "by not being able to hire minors on such jobs". Explaining why our amendment was not accepted, you have called here for the current Labour Act, which in article 84 speaks of it. Of course, I know, because I've been part of the law, I know what the Labour Act says, but I think it's necessary that this law also stands. I'm not sure any volunteer organizer will turn the Labour Act around to look at it. For him, what's written here is enough. We think that we, and the state is the most invited to protect minors, not only up to 15 years old, but also lower, to really be protected and that they cannot be hired to volunteer in conditions that are dangerous to health and life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41121	The 27th amendment was submitted by National MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MPs Miljan Rangelovic and joint MPs Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Miljan Rangelovic and joint MPs Zoran Ostojić, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelović and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41122	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, it's just one word, so this law can be improved technically. Instead of "ministration", we suggested that it be called "the competent ministry". For what? Because you, in the light of this law, have referred to the constitutional framework, mentioned three laws: the Labour Act, the Law on Social Protection and Social Security of Citizens and one law concerning the Ministry of Health, that is the Health Protection Act. Volunteering can also be performed by a doctor, and a pharmacist, and a dentist, and a senior nurse and a physiotherapist, therefore, healthcare professionals. We believe that the competent ministry, which should have records of what these unemployed people are doing, the volunteers who have done the job, must have had some report to know that these people have passed a certain kind of education, that they have acquired some new knowledge and skills. For this reason, we have proposed "the competent ministry", precisely because it also applies to healthcare professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41123	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41124	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41125	Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miljan Rangelovic and joint MPs Zoran Ostojic, Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41126	Since the amendment to Article 29 has been accepted, it is the same thing, it is logical to accept this amendment as well. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41127	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41128	For the same reason we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41129	The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41130	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41131	People's MP, I apologize, you are not a signer of the amendment, and the DSS Group has taken advantage of the time available to her. So if one of the MPs who signed the amendment wants a word, he has the right to his two minutes. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. That's how it's in the data that was delivered to me. If it's a mistake... (Alexander Pejcic, from the post: I'm a signer of the amendment. Did you sign the amendment? Yeah. Then it's a mistake. Please, go ahead. Sign up. National MP Alexander Pejcic, with apologies for not being forwarded. People's MP, the problem is you didn't sign the amendment, which is why it wasn't included in the script. If you want to speak, I'll give you my word. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41132	I'd rather have a colleague named Paicic talking, but... The amendment is simple. Article 33 is in this head where transitional and final provisions are made. The proposer says rules for the enforcement of this law will be passed within six months of the entry into force of this law. We think six months is a long time. We think it can be shorter, so we suggest that the rules for the enforcement of this law are all those sublaws, regulations, etc., passed within three months. It's that intervention when it comes to that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41133	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic wants a word. The time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41134	We end today and this second law, the law on volunteering. I think you should say some closing words about all this. Since I am authorized in front of the Democratic Party of Serbia to talk about it, I would like to say that the DSS believes both laws are very important for our country, to cover two areas that are not covered by the laws in the right way. As far as the Democratic Party of Serbia is concerned, this labour abuse law is much more inaccurate and has many more general places. We don't think this law is going to have a big application and there's going to be a problem with applying in some real life and reality, first of all because there's a lot of mobbing because it's very hard to prove, because the court proceedings are terribly slow. In this way we bring the victim of mobbing into an even worse position, because she expects this process to be a solution to her suffering. It doesn't work like that in real life and it's very complicated for her. I also think that the state must think and try to create some kind of organization, of course a state organization, that would help institutes dealing with the victims of mobbing. Anyone in front of the state has to stand before it and, with the help of this law, work with the victims of mobbing. Because in this country, there is a tendency to bring about some opposite; first of all I am talking about intentions, because from the intention of being very useful, something quite different comes out very well. I think the state really needs to take over the organization of working with the victims of mobbing. When it comes to this second law, the law on volunteering, we're more satisfied, but we've had a lot of objections. You've seen how many amendments we have. Some minor interventions you accepted. What we really wanted to do was not really going so easy. What is our biggest remark is the Red Cross, which is a volunteer organization. That's what the Red Cross Act says, valid, hasn't changed. That's what it says in the statutes of the organization. It is completely unclear to us how the President of the Red Cross can express his desire not to be involved in some law, that the organisation he currently represents is in some way not under the authority of some law. It's an odd method, which we haven't been able to figure out until the end. What we have been able to clarify is that some 60,000 volunteers (as many as they have written in their report to the National Assembly) will not be volunteers, or in some strange way will be volunteers, and we will not write them as such and see them as such. So this status of the Red Cross volunteer remains unclear, because it is completely unclear what is going to happen to them. What's our question is the oral contract issue that you have stated in this law. It is not clear to us at all how an oral contract can be realised. That's what any lawyer can tell you. So, if you're thinking logically, how can you follow the realisation of the oral contract and who is bound by the oral contract and in what way? We thought it needed to be changed. We have amendments in that direction. They weren't accepted. We don't understand why, because in the application of this law, this will be a disputed point. We're absolutely sure of that. We're used to it, this government has the habit of passing a law at any moment, so that in three, four, six months, it changes it. What we have seen as pedant MPs, and we write what amendments we have had on what law, is that mostly what we have cited as objections and what is not accepted in the end brings here to work again. I don't understand why we're wasting our time. That's what we do for our society, we have no reason to do harm. It's completely pointless. We're writing amendments to fix the law. So these are our basic remarks. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41135	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41136	Since the debate is coming to an end, I want to point out, on behalf of G 17 plus, the importance of these two laws, but also the quality of the debate that was conducted in the Assembly. I think, with little exceptions, she was indeed at a professional level and was taking place responsibly. They repeat their remarks about the labour abuse law, because I think the definition should be clearer. My amendment has not been accepted, it is now too late, but I would like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment. I respect the arguments that not all forms of abuse can be listed in the law and arguments that say that, during the caselaw, it is likely to exploit what all is abuse, as well as the arguments of the Ministry that sublaws will be resolved, but I would like to point out once again that this is a new matter, that for the first time we have a law that will talk about this matter and that I think it would be much easier if we had a legally defined and precise area that we are talking about. Why am I saying this? I'm talking to my colleagues and my colleagues and the Ministry. We live in a country where it is possible that the judge does not know what “you will pass as Curuvija” means and that it is interpreted as an insult, not as a threat. In a situation where such a thing is possible... I don't understand how it can be an insult if someone is told they'll pass as someone who's killed. You can see that, too. I believe that we understand each other perfectly well when we talk about our obligation to legally define the text correctly so that we don't bring society into situations where certain things in courts are interpreted in this sort of raving way. So I urge you all to think about it one more time. By the way, I think the laws are extremely important because they regulate completely new areas and that they allow, on the one hand, people to be protected at their jobs, and on the other hand, to allow young people to get to know all aspects of possible work for the common good and to gain professional competence through the work for the general. In that sense, these laws deserve support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41137	Two minutes and forty seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 34. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41138	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41139	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41140	Very short. Once again, I would like to thank all the MPs, especially those who participated in this debate. Finally, the number of amendments accepted tells us how correct and fruitful this debate was. I hope that in the voting day we will have the support of a large majority of MPs for both draft laws. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41141	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're finishing our morning work. We continue at 3:10 p.m. for the afternoon session. Thank you. [[After break – 15/15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session of the National Assembly. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Freedom of Access to Information From Public Meaning (Single) pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, on the search in detail of the 3rd and 4th items of the agenda (Reference for a Law amending the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Republic of Serbia), has also called for the sittings to be attended by Zoran Petrovic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, Darko Radojčić, Deputy Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law and Ranka Vujović, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezevic, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Peljević, Mileta Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mico Rogovic, Vuceta Tošković, Dragan Čolić and Milan Avramović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised: MP Nebojsa Rangelovic - MP group LDP, MP Djordje Milicevic - SPS-JS MP, MP Zoran Shami - DSS MP and MP Boris Aleksic - SRS Group of MPs. A group of 21 MPs of the Prosperity Group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the Serbian Progressive Party, the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning is extremely important, but we believe that the capacity and capabilities of this law are nowhere near used, especially because we believe that there is one serious pressure on the media by the executive authority. The fact is that the media, that journalists (of course, I mean, first of all, editors who create that policy) rarely address this institution by asking for information. Another problem is that those who are obliged to provide information are not adequately punished, i.e. criminal policy was not strong enough to force them to comply with this law in some way. As some information, I would give the MPs two statistics: let's say, as far as demands, associations and citizens address 71% of cases; the media addresses the institution in 22% of cases. As for complaints submitted by the Trustee to authorities who have not responded to this request, 90% of these complaints refer to citizens and associations, and to the media only 4.5%. Obviously, then, when it comes to this right, that the media don't use it, very little use it. This is not difficult to determine, it is enough to take the most ordinary daily press and look at; let's say, you will find an article on the National Assembly much more often, but an article that will have a critical reference when it comes to executive power, when it comes to the ministries, although we have 250 MPs, and 28,000 official employees in the state administration, although it is a thousand times the budget that all these ministries have, all these agencies have than the National Assembly. Much more often in the media you will find criticism at the expense of MPs, at the expense of the legislative authority than you will find it when it comes to executive power. As far as criminal policy is concerned, these amendments and additions to the law were to go in that sense, it means that the trustee should be allowed to in some way by one who does not respect the law of punishment. Unfortunately, this solution that you have suggested for us does not mean repairing the situation in this area. If it is referred to the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is indeed punishment for someone who does not respect this law to be very symbolic, amounting to between five and 20,000 dinars. With our amendment, we have sought to increase these penalties significantly, that those penalties amount to some 100,000 dinars, since those who do not provide information with very good income, usually the directors of individual institutions or work in certain agencies, means that the penalty is appropriate to the height of their salary, even the possibility of it being multipled. It is the essence of our amendment and the essence of our desire to use this institute much more often, that in some ways, it may be ugly to say, but it pours fear into the bones of those who avoid and try to conceal from the public those information that are of interest to all Serbian citizens. We regret that you had no understanding and accepted this amendment or at least suggested some other solution which would mean that this amendment of the law makes sense, because as you suggested, I believe there will be no significant shift in the exercise of this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41144	Two minutes and twenty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that the authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group is MP Milan Avramovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of mine refers to the role of the Commissioner, which is one of the essential members of the amendment proposal and to the addition of this Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. With this amendment, I wanted to specify everything that could be done, and what the Trustee can't do and what on his request should be realized, and what the Government should do unless a solution is implemented in the manner set out in Article 2 or Article 1 of the proposed amendment and the addition of the law. What I received from the Government, which says that the amendment is not accepted because it essentially does not change the content of the norm which, as proposed, is understandable, precise and clear, makes me read to everyone how I imagined Article 4 of this bill's position. Thus, the law states: “If the Trustee cannot implement his solution in the manner set out in Article 2, the Government shall, at his request, assist him in the procedure of administrative enforcement of this solution by applying the measures of its jurisdiction, i.e. by ensuring the execution of the trustee’s solution by direct coercion. “ In principle, we have argued that such government proposals are undefined, that they are not proposed in this law and that the law itself provides that the government will subsequently provide for measures to implement this article. We have been protesting and insisting that it be in the proposal for an amendment, which has not been found, but with the amendment, we have at least tried to mark the position of the government, which must act solely on the request of the Commissioner, not on automation. What were we looking for this for? Because automation doesn't mean the government can, should or must react every time the trustee doesn't ask for it, or to react when the trustee asks. In order to be precise and to know what the government wanted, we had to define the role of the Trustees. That's what my amendment reads. So, in the proposed amendment to Article 1, I explicitly stated: “On the request of the Commissioner, and because of the inability to implement the solution in the manner set out in Article 2, the Government of the Republic of Serbia provides assistance to the Trustee in the process of administrative enforcement by applying the measures of its jurisdiction, i.e. by ensuring the execution of the trustee's solution by direct coercion. “ So if we make a difference, if the Trustee cannot and if we make a difference with the term “at the request of the Trustee, ” you will see that there is a huge difference whether or not the Government will react. This amendment, and in the very explanation of the Government, is said not to change the essential content of the norm, which is proposed and understandable. If it doesn't change it, I don't know why the government didn't accept this. I don't want to be one of those MPs who claims it's because the amendment was filed by someone from the opposition, but I want to be one of those who wants to honor the government that she didn't work in the interest of the trustees, or even by not accepting this amendment, because she didn't want the essential thing to be an example of purpose, and that's what the Trustee did on request, and what the government would do in the course of automation, or, if they can't implement their solution, by official duty, as the law requires. I'll read you a few examples of how I'm right and what I'm saying. It is said this way, it is one of the common things that is addressed to Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic about whether he can promise that the money from the sale of Telecom will not be spent on salaries and pensions and that the parties will not use it for the campaign, Cvetkovic replied among other things: you have a law on the availability of information and you can ask us at any time – gentlemen, give us a list of what you spent that money on, and you will get a list and see what the money is spent on. That's what the daily press said. Just two weeks after the statement, Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information, submitted an annual report to the Serbian government on the application of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. The conclusion is that, according to the document, the Serbian government did almost nothing during 2009 to force the trustees to execute solutions. This was, by the way, the government's legal obligation, and even this amendment and the addition of the law, in the event that the public authorities refuse to disclose information of public importance after the orders of the Commissioner. In 2009, dozens of trustees' resolutions remained incomplete, which is due to the government's passive relationship, which is due to the self-will of public authorities that are hiding information about their work. I'll give you examples of what the government's automation means and I'll go into some specific situations where, say, it can hide social policy from the public. I think it is a shame that state institutions and governments, who call themselves socially responsible, hide information and information concerning, say, social and health policies in Serbia. These data by their nature and content must be made available to the public in every possible way, including this law. Publicly, the MUP Regulation on the Fund of Monetary Assistance to the members of the dead and wounded members of the MUP is hidden; there is a Regulation on the salaries of Serbia's MUP. Regardless of the trustee’s order, the Protocol on the Professional Procedures of the “Studentica” Health Centre is being used by the King in establishing the diagnosis and treatment of certain disorders in pregnant people. I listed this as examples because we were looking for all this data, and we didn't get any answers. Believe it or not, the finance ministry has refused to disclose a list of the top ten debtors to the state and a list of debtors with outstanding liabilities based on social contributions. I mention one more time, and I underline – the Socially Responsible Government. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not want to allow the public to see the record of the review of the work on the control of Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla" during the term of office of Bojan Krist. The calculation of accommodation prices at the Gerontology Centre in Belgrade – we also did not get an answer. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Union's Committee on Demonstration of Representativeship - we did not get an answer. The documents on the funds paid “France Protection” on behalf of the disabled – we did not get an answer. For example, the National Bank of Serbia refused to disclose which banks were subject to control in 2008. This prevented both the public and the SRS MP from learning more about the legality of the business of Western banks in Serbia, those of the same banks that skind the citizens. But this law didn't help us get any data either. The fact of regime affairs is inaccessible, and this law cannot help resolve it. Despite the fact that the Trustee ordered individual institutions, bodies and businesses to publicly disclose the documentation, this was not done out of fear of the rekindling of old or opening new affairs. In this connection, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning refused to disclose documents related to the implementation of work at the Uste Business Centre in Belgrade, as well as the approval for the construction of the Sava Venac municipality in Belgrade. The management of the Public Undertaking of the Railways of Serbia has refused to disclose documents on car refurbishment, on obligations towards "Zelvos", to distribute apartments, as well as information on the total value of the public procurement contracts in 2008. The leadership of RTS refused to give us an insight into the RTS Management Board's decision on the approval of funds for the organisation of "Eurosong 2008", as well as the conditions of a public competition for the idea of a stage for the "Eurovision Song". The telecommunications ministry hides expenses on the official travels of Minister Jasna Matic from G17 Plus. I only read those questions that we asked as a parliamentary group, and we never got an answer, or even the trustee's emergency. This is proof that this amendment of mine was to be included in this amendment and the addition of the law, because the government's automation of such issues, as we have asked on behalf of the parliamentary group, remained silent. Perhaps one of the most large and most important information in 2009 is that despite the trustee's order to disclose, the remaining unreachable information about the contract between the state-owned firm Telecom Serbia and McCann Erickson. It is obvious that this ruling majority is not in the interest of Serbian citizens to know how much millions of euros a year have earned Srdjan Saper on the basis of a privileged and political one, let me put it this way, a deal on the provision of marketing services for the needs of the company Telecom Serbia. Millions of euros achieved in this way are certainly reinvested in the political campaign, especially the ruling majority and the Democratic Party, since Srdjan Shaper is known to be and that in Serbia it is no longer a secret. Because of such people, such policies and such a way of robbing the state budget, we have remained deprived of the application of the Law on Free Access to Information of public importance. When Prime Minister Cvetkovic talks about the application of the law first, he must bear in mind that the Serbian government has not implemented around 290 solutions that the Commissioner has made so far. We are talking about the period from 2006 to 2009, the forced execution of the government. If such behaviour, according to the Commissioners in the 2009 report, points to the conclusion that the government supports the non-compliance of the law and encourages the authorities to violate the Constitution and this law of guaranteed law, how do we expect the Government to do something by automation? I have to give you some more concrete examples from the life of the Serbian country to explain to the citizens of Serbia how negligent it is about the law on the availability of information of public importance. So here is another example: The Serbian government, that is, its Vice-President Mladjan Dinkic and Associates Mladjan Dinkic, specifically thinks of the director of the Privatisation Agency Vesna Djindjic and current director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Milos Milankovic, in an extreme way, have obstructed the current law on the availability of information of public importance. Both times it had something to do with the Bor municipality. Covering up the murky shops... Both times, only legal persons in Croatia benefited from these obstructions. I've got some work to do, so the citizens can understand the essence of what I've been meaning to say. The "Electro Network of Serbia" bought two energy transformers from the Croatian manufacturer Končar. One of these transformers, according to the plans of the "Electro Networks of Serbia", was to be delivered to the municipality of Bor, but the G17 personnel suddenly made a decision on the change, and as a destination for the delivery of transformers was suddenly designated first by Belgrade and Novi Sad, and then the Belgrade destination was changed and Saturday was elected. Bor, in which the mining-topic base is located, did not then receive a transformer. The contract to buy these transformers, with whose delivery the Croatian company was late, was requested by the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" Milos Milankovic. He broke the law, I don't know which time either, and this contract didn't deliver to us from the SRS Group that we were looking for. Milankovic responded to a request submitted in September 2008 only after the Commissioner's warning in October. So he was a month late. Why is this moon so important? Because in that month Milankovic was hiding a job from the public that the "Electro Network of Serbia" concluded with the firm Končar from Croatia. I must also mention that it was for this "Cončar" from Croatia that Milankovic himself worked and that it was one of the worst conflicts of interest and one of the biggest reasons why we asked for a contract of insight, based on this law. But we got that contract with a month late, and in that month, it happens next. After the contract was delivered to us, it turned out that the damage caused by the "Cončar" delay with the delivery is far greater than the value of the transformers themselves, and the question was raised whether Milankovic charged damage from the Croats. When we raised that question in one of the congregation discussions, we received information that the damage was not charged. Minister Malovic then informed me, as I asked the parliamentary question, that a criminal complaint was filed against the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia" for this reason. The police administration has not delivered a report to the D.A.'s office by today on the basis of which it could make the appropriate decision to proceed, the minister then said. But the other day, I learned that police allegedly told the prosecution that there was no basis for the prosecution of Milankovic. How could the police give such a report and as a prosecutor's office put off the law enforcement force remains in response to a question that will be asked precisely by this law. If the prosecution couldn't read the disputed members of the Public Procurement Act and the disputed members of the contract, we don't understand... It would be good for the public to know the names of prosecutors and police officers working on the case. But journalists, MPs and all those interested in this case... Some had the courage to ask that question, some journalists did not have the courage to reveal the question and answer. We have come to the situation that the ruling coalition and the ruling judiciary society, if I may put it that way, and the prosecution rejects the suit against Milankovic, although we have seen in the contract that there are elements for prosecution. I'm going to give an example of how it works with ordinary citizens who are not part of this government. When a journalist no longer works in a newspaper where one of the officials sued him, especially from G 17 Plus officials, finds out that the lawsuit exists, comes to trial, and the judge tells him -- if you hadn't shown up today, I'd hang your invitation on the board, so if you didn't show up, I'd be judging by what the lawyer of the party that sued you delivered to me. Now watch out for this paradox, a parallel between an ordinary journalist and a government official for which there is no explanation why the criminal report was rejected, and how it is burdened one journalist with a text he may have written under this law on the availability of information, the data he used. So, it happens that the journalist doesn't know that he's being fought against, and the judges are zealously holding calls to a board in court. On the other hand, criminal charges against G 17 officials are not processed and stand in drawers. I say G 17 plus, because Milos Milankovic is in that party's position, I personally have nothing against my colleagues from that party. Second, the most dramatic case of a breach of the law on the availability of information of public importance is also related to the party G 17 plus, this time as the director of the Privatisation Agency Vesna Djindjic, but perhaps also to the president of the party himself. A request for a copy of the privatisation contract RTB Bor, which Dinkic signed as minister with the Austrian firm Atek, was submitted to the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency on 2 February 2008. It was delivered to us on 2 July 2008. So, five months after the application was filed. Why am I saying this? Because it's interesting to point out that this controversial contract, God forbid, has come into effect... He also had ties to Croatia, but this time with the Croatian coast, where RTB Bor owns a number of rooms in the hotel "Avala" in Rovinj, a children's resort in Vodice, a hotel, bungalows and about three hectares of the country in Orebic, at an exclusive location on the Pelješac peninsula. This is the data that we got from some other way. It is interesting to note that Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, as an accident, flew on the Croatian coast last year, to give RTB a new dapper, which he did not pay out of his pocket, but money from the budget. Here's the role of this bill. I would like to see the day when the prosecution and the police will zealously carry out actions against officials who abuse the position by violating the law on the availability of information of public importance and by denying documents they hide nothing but corruption. If the prosecution and the police were at least half as zealous as the newly elected judges who were zealous in persecuting journalists for charges of compensation of immaterial damage and falsified slander, then in this country, I can freely conclude, there would be no corruption. Fortunately, journalists aren't lonely, I have to stand in the protection of journalists; against corruption, the SRS is fighting in some way, because I got a lawsuit from the President of the Second Municipal Court because of one text. When I presented evidence that the text was fully valid and suggested a witness, the court rejected both evidence and witnesses, and I was “drinked, ” freely to express, one sentence I gave to the second-degree authority. The best example is our former president of the Bor Municipality Branislav Rankic, who managed to preserve RTB Bor on two occasions, especially using data that was not available to him from RTB Bor himself. There was no contract available that we asked for, no data were available on Bora's assets, and when it was a while ago, when we hacked that data from another side, when the government rejected the Commissioner's request to deliver these data, we essentially realized what the background of all this was. Because I have cited and because of this amendment that I have proposed on behalf of the SRS, it is necessary to change the role of the Trustee, to provide him with working conditions, to provide him with a number of employees, to enable him to have more jurisdiction and precise members and to define the existing law, rather than to be given the help of the Trustee by giving him two members of the law of all thirty and something, as many as there are in the original text of the law, to change it and to give the Government the obligation to just determine how he will implement something in the law that we are adopting today. Today, we are the victims of the ruling majority who put two members on the agenda as a change and a supplement, and it does not solve the fundamental question of the law on the availability of information of public importance. So I ask you once again to consider whether you will accept this amendment or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41146	Total time has been used for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and another five minutes and thirty seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41147	I will use the time of the parliamentary group, and I think we have quite enough time to round up this subject of amending the Law on free access to information of public importance. Just at the beginning to correct, it's practically one member, the other is in the domain of transitional provisions. It is an amendment that should allow the Trustee to carry out its solutions as a first-degree governing body, and they are in fact second-degreed in this procedure. I would not like to repeat now what I said in principle about this bill, I think it was quite striking, and Mr Avramovic took the opportunity to show on some concrete examples what it looks like to be called an independent and independent state body that has no coverage for its alleged status in the Constitution and which, in fact, does not have that status. Evidence of this is the fact that the ministry must file criminal charges, etc. Without intending to repeat the principled debate, I just want to point out, if we were to sort out concrete examples, it would probably be a little while and three months to bring it all up here. I don't want to look at these specific examples, or scare them with different colors, or name them by individuals, it's more or less public knowledge already. However, I would like to point out the need for this law, and probably 15, and maybe 20 laws, to fix this area. When I say this area, I'm looking at it a little bit wider. Why? The right of citizens to be informed of these public affairs does not mean that someone should only receive a notice, but is the basic purpose of using this notice. The basic purpose is that someone does not question those facts that they receive in that notice. This notification and these facts are needed by the public to verify public authority, whether the government is conducted in accordance with the Constitution and the law, whether it is done in an objective, impartial way, whether there is possibly something here that we call conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is not only the cumulation of public functions, but also the possession of a public function while possessing a private interest that comes into some relationship with the exercise of public office. I want to say that this topic is much broader and I think it's a good thing that we opened this topic up in a law that essentially doesn't solve that problem. I'm making sure again not to repeat the principle debate, but to focus on the amendment, and the amendment concerns something called an administrative execution. Now a little wider... Mrs. Comic, it's all about this subject, in advance, to tell you that you don't think I'm out of the picture. We are faced (when I say, I mean citizens and participants in political life) with the fact that we can never get any information. This does not apply to those institutions that have been exempt by this law, such as courts, prosecutors, or the National Assembly, etc., but these issues are inevitably being raised. Why? Because they're going into something called public interest and the exercise of public authority. These days we are promoting four books by Vojislav Seselj "Police File". It's all about some information that's important to the public, not about the public from the perspective of the past, but about the present and our future, if we have it -- who's doing it, what we know. A team before two very important areas meet with the Commissioner: information of public importance and protection of personal data. That's what's on that trustee. There's a situation where you don't officially get information, so you're able to provide it in some other way. It's no secret. Serbia is such a small state that the conflict of individual interests is evident, and when this conflict of interest arises then always some party wants to cast out some justice or to know the truth, so it states the data in order. Political parties and MPs are probably in this series the first to receive this side information, so very often in the form of a parliamentary issue or in another way, some topics that are not available to the public are updated, so someone is simply amazed at how it is known when it is well hidden. There's no such thing as a variant of good hiding; when another man knows something, it's no longer a secret, either theoretically or practically. We have a big problem with using that data that's significant. It is said, say, that the President of the Constitutional Court is in relation to the former advisor of the President of the Republic. Word is, we don't know that, along with all the fences that the Constitutional Court is protected. The Constitutional Court is in a situation of absolute infallibility, because it is believed that you cannot resolve the judge of the Constitutional Court because of intricacies. And we have a fact, say, that the Constitutional Court's decision must not be announced for twenty-two days. It's not out of the question, to be clear, it's all about this subject. We need a little different to look at this law. Should we protect someone by not falling under this law? I think there's been a big mistake. We have in our regulations something that is protected – judicial proceedings, judgments must not be commented, what the prosecution does, must not be entered into the small intestines etc. We have a fact that these organs sometimes seem to have misused their powers. How can the public control? Can we have the untouchable in the land? How can someone say, say, to the Constitutional Court that they've confused everything, demonstrated absolute ignorance, they don't know what freedoms are, or human rights, neither those who are absolute, nor those who are relative? They are calling for something written in some Protocol and the European Convention on Human Rights, in Article 3, Election Law, and there is only an active electoral right, not a passive one. Passive doesn't regulate. Passive voting law is relatively right. The right to be chosen is not the right to be elected. The Constitutional Court is acting strangely; in 2003 it says – it is possible that what was done in 2003, if the Constitution gave the basis. The constitution has now established and they say, it is impossible. Now I'm really asking a question, it seems hypothetical, is it true that some family relationship or some other relationship has had a crucial impact on some decision of the Constitutional Court, which is not to be published for 20 days? The consequences of the very announcement that such a decision exists you saw for yourself. I'm really asking everyone in this room, the representatives of the government... It's my fault that there are no representatives of the government, I didn't want to talk about concrete examples of this law, but I want in principle (and a good example is this amendment) to open the topic. We heard in 2001 that everything is transparent, everything needs to be clear, everything needs to be made available to the public. If in practice this is not available to the public, then individuals from that public can freely interpret the actual situation and find reasons why it is not available to the public. Then public authorities are practically opening up space, opening up a field of speculation, which can be accurate and do not have to be accurate. Then the practical regulation enabled arbitrary interpretation. Then we're spinning, we're getting into a situation where free-minded journalists... For the first time in his life, a video block for writing and a pen, is presented as “a respectable feather”, twists things, media moves them into another space; the public disabling themselves in fact, and individuals who want it to disabling both as experts and as a person. Why? So we should have as perfect a regulation as possible. State, the government must have some secrets. We also have such a regulation that guarantees the protection of certain data that are not available to the public. I'm not going into that area, it's not the subject of this law. Then the question arises – how can the Trustee end this? It can't, with these changes and additions, or this change doesn't seem good. Nothing seems good. Why? You, of the Ministry, will have to make criminal charges again. That hasn't changed, I'm sorry, please. There's only been some change here, and the question is, can this survive? I draw your attention, given the status of the Commissioner in the field of information of public importance. I'm not talking about the part where the protection of personal data is, but in this part, with regard to the authority that he has and what his status is, he can't work. It is likely that the person who currently performs the function of the Trustee has concluded – if he could finish administratively, to carry out the execution, to satisfy certain things. They can't be satisfied because the problem is opening again – what, you're going to punish someone with a fine, allegedly, a punishment, and you keep repeating that punishment, that he provides some information, and by hiding that information, he achieves an incomparably greater interest? Without the intention of falling into a trap, I have no selective approach to what information is of public importance, and what is not information of public importance, so it does not fall under this law, I am not talking about private companies, I am not talking about what is of private interest, but, excuse me, I have to ask you a question: if someone hires several thousand people on the basis of his private job in his private company, did he come out of a private matter and did it become a public matter? Is labour status a few thousand people in a company still a private matter or is that a public matter? Think about it. We don't need to take some South American recipe that the national economy is based on the fact that they're mostly the owners of ten families, and everything else around to fill the hollows, etc., and they're pillars of development. Then where are we gonna go? We obviously... When I tell you, this country is obviously going that way. This is where the institutions skip, this is where people are simply called, who are called tycoons. And the tycoon in its definition means you don't know how he got that kind of money, that kind of wealth. They have become a very important factor in political life and in Serbia at all. No secret is, a few years ago they mostly, and that significantly affected the formation of government. Some of the organized crime may be involved in forming a future government on the new step. So I think we should do a kind of redefining of something we call information of public importance. I don't think it's enough to bind to public authorities only, no matter how wide we interpret the concept of public authority. I think there are elements, precisely because of the principle of transparency, that it expands, to allow both commentary and knowledge of what is happening. Based on some of my personal experience, at least as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, I can tell you that I once represented the National Assembly, as a member of the Legislative Committee, on a law whose constitutionality was valued before that Constitutional Court. Some professors from various universities participated in the public debate. During the public debate, they did not say a single word of legal nature, but only politically defined their presence in the public debate. They only gave political qualifications. Do you know how beautifully these political qualifications "sticked" to the Constitutional Court judges, so they simply didn't hear legal arguments? As a result, a solution was published, which had apparently already been made. Of course, this law cannot resolve it, it cannot resolve the issue of substrates and the specific composition of materials that should promote the values our laws must bear. We need to expand this subject. As we, for example, tried to resolve the subject of public finances well, so we said – The State Auditing Institution is auditing; when they are finished, there is nothing after that. We use that data here to draw some conclusions and use them in our discussion, and we can't argue about that data, to guess. There's a similar situation here. The information needed by the public, which represents the public's interest, which needs to be learned, cannot be stopped, is prevented. And we've had situations of brutal prevention of attempts to see such information the light of day. We give some journalists space to make some of their careers – based on what? On what basis do they make careers? We have big publishing work. I remember our member on some anti-corruption team, etc., who had trouble providing some official information for newspaper texts. There's been a lot of trouble. I have to say that the Commissioner helped in several cases, that was very drastic. I remember how much trouble there was to provide the most specific information regarding telecommunications, even the Commissioner didn't help us. Let us remember how much trouble there is with some information that is needed because of "The mouth". Just to remind you, the President of the Republic had to intervene at the mouth. However, in a slightly more interesting way – architecturally, it does not fit. However, the issue of land was later raised, and so was the issue. Now it appears as a controversial issue something in Luka, what Dracula is doing, at which price he received. It is not good for us to open these topics based on hunches, doubts and speculation and this law should stop it; if information is needed for the public, it should be provided. I claim that when this amendment of this one member is adopted and this gentleman who is currently performing the task of the Commissioner begins with the administrative implementation of his solutions, there will be a problem. Then there will be a situation to be said – the law has not changed enough, we had to change something else. This "something else" cannot be changed because of the position and status the trustee has. Just to think, the question is, is there a big mistake being made when a trustee is given jurisdiction to protect personal data? All that belonged to the state body under that law was broken down to him as if he were a competent authority, and he is not really independent, nor independent; he is something not only has no teeth, but he has no prosthetics. So I draw your attention that this is the way to change our rules, where in the beginning it is known that it is insufficient, a job that is done unnecessary; it requires a great deal of time, there is a big debate, everyone is in their positions, and we all know that there is a huge legal flaw, which can't be removed. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41148	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is nineteen minutes and forty-five seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Features of the Republic of Serbia (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Saša Dujović, Aleksandar Martinović and Zoran Shami on the bill. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41149	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief as far as this amendment is concerned. Mr. Martinovic has proposed to delete the 2nd and 4th positions in Article 2. The amendment proposes to delete medals for zealous service from these intended decorations. I'm going to take this opportunity to say a few words about the medals, about the atmosphere in which we're discussing this law. The medals are shared for various merits, but by tradition, especially when it comes to the tradition of the Serbian people, the award of medals is mostly about special and exceptional merits in defending the country, its territorial integrity and sovereignty. That is why I will take the opportunity to draw the public's attention to, in my opinion, the disturbing and somewhat embarrassing circumstances in society in general in which we are discussing amendments to the Law on Features. This debate is being led in a situation where, for years in Serbia, a campaign against most of those social and moral values that individuals or groups of individuals can inspire in the actions for which the medals are shared and won, especially when it comes to defence of the country. For five years, and longer, and especially in the last five years intensively and daily, we have heard from the top state officials that Ratko Mladic's biggest state and national interest is in arresting and handing him over to The Hague tribunal. It is a Serbian commander who, according to all the surveys, according to what can be read in the media, a vast majority of Serbian citizens and a vast majority of Serbian people consider a national hero.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41150	People's MP, I ask you to bring your position on a fugitive from court and justice in connection with an amendment submitted on a proposal for an amendment and an amendment. I remind you of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges us to discuss the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41151	Okay. Thank you, Mrs. Comic, for your warning. I'm talking about the subject of distinction, and I'm talking about the valuable courts, the decorations and the atmosphere in which the state is located. I'll respect your intervention. I remind you that last year, the war crimes prosecutor said that several thousand people were involved in the search for the remaining, as you say, Hague indictees, directly or indirectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41152	People's MP, I remind you of Article 103, which obliges us all to discuss the subject of the agenda as participants. The topic of the agenda is the debate in detail on the amendment and addition of the Law on Fines, and it is currently article 2. On Article 2nd, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment that reads that Articles 2nd and 4th are deleted. Please bring your presentations into contact with the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41153	Okay. As I understand it, the point of the intervention is that, in future, I do not mention General Ratko Mladic and I will not do so. Please allow me to complete my discussion in the same way as those who spoke before me about the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning. A month ago, here in the Serbian Parliament, we adopted a declaration condemning real or false, and I'm not going into it, genocide over Muslims in Srebrenica. I remind you that the Serbian Parliament did not at the same time take the opportunity to discuss and condemn the crimes committed against the Serb people in the former Yugoslavia's space in the past wars.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41154	People's MP, I now warn you that we are all under obligation, as participants in the session, to respect the provisions and members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; at present, except for Article 27, which obliges me to take care of the order at the session and the compliance for the normal course of the session, and members who commit us to a certain kind of conduct and polite treatment, and Article 103 which speaks of the obligation for the MP to speak about what is on the agenda. I warn you, we respect those members.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41155	If the most legislative body of a state discusses the Law on Features, I believe it is not a failure of the subject if it discusses the social and moral values that a society needs to cultivate in order for individuals or groups to do certain social benefits for which medals are granted. I want to tell the citizens of Serbia what message we are sending to the young generations of the Serbian people, who tomorrow should defend Serbia and in any other way deserve medals. With the overall policy that Serbia has been leading over the past few years, we have been sending a message that defending the country is a very risky thing, in certain situations it can also be a crime. We declare war criminals before their trial begins. I must point out one fact, that General Ratko Mladić...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41156	People's MP, unless you have any intention of expressing your personal position as a MP, regardless of how you have failed to submit the amendment, that it is worth the right thing to anyone who committed a war crime to give a medal, if you don't consider it a relationship, for the last time I warn you that we are talking about the agenda. I'm really asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41157	I just want to make my point, when it is specifically this case, that it is absolutely immoral, that it is contrary to domestic law, that it is contrary to the Constitution, that it is contrary to international law, that it is contrary to the statutes of the UN tribunal of anyone against whom a judicial verdict is not called a war criminal. I would go back to this topic, when it comes to honours and the social atmosphere in which we are discussing this law. I remind Serbian citizens that we are in a situation where the ruling majority (when we talk about it, I am not only thinking about the government of Boris Tadic, I also think about the previous ones, from October 5th 2000 to today), created an atmosphere in a society where the defence of Kosovo and Metohija was the wrong thing. Kosovo and Metohija's heroic defence made a joke. Thanks to this, for two or three years, the main topic among former Kosovo and Metohija defenders, among former Serbian defenders of NATO's aggression pact is not the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, not the heroics and exploits that individuals and military units have made in defending the country, but the collection of war logs. War veterans in Krusevec, Valjev and Nis do not demonstrate because their homeland is because they are part of the state territory for which they fought, part of the state territory where their brothers were killed occupied, because the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija live in reserves like Indians, in constant fear, but because of the collection of war logs. I remind Serbian citizens that they have charged them once, and now they would like to charge them another time. I ask one question, I hope it has to do with the topic – is there a greater moral failure than that the descendants of Milos Obilić and Prince Lazar and the contemporaries of Major Milan Tepic demand that they be paid for the fact that the moment Serbia was attacked defended Serbia, that they defended Kosovo, Gazimestan, Gracanica, Lazarica, for defending their house and their family? Is there a greater moral failure than for a Serb soldier to sue his country because she called on him at the time she was attacked to defend her, to defend her and her family? I don't think there is. I believe that this shameful policy, the shameful collection of patriotism, is the result of government policy in Belgrade. I'm not just thinking about the current government, I'm thinking about everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41158	National MP, for the second time, I warn you that in the style and creative effort to explain why it is necessary to support the amendment of MP Aleksandr Martinovic, we do not forget the obligation to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Agenda, and with polite treatment for participants of the session and with polite treatment for those who are not in this room. For the second time, please, after that, I will really have to warn you and apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that neither you nor I want to be applied, but Article 27 obliges me not to allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure without warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41159	Thank you. I'm obviously going to have to close the exhibit soon. I just want to say in the end that only the people who have defended their national interests have the right to expect them to be defended. Only the people who defended those interests were able to defend them. Only one who defends his country can expect to defend it. Without such an approach, without such a national state policy, I believe that Serbia will not need either the Law on Delicacies or the distinctions. Serbia will have no one to assign them to, there will be no candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41160	Seven minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41161	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, of course, is always a heroic act to defend their country and of course anyone who defends his country should be decorated if he makes a heroic endeavor to oppose the enemy he is sacrificing. The Wazda people in Serbia were ready to stand on the altar of martyrdom and on the altar of freedom for the sake of freedom and the lofty ideals. There have been so many examples in our glorious past that I can now call. In 1914, at the battle cry of King Petar First Karadjordjevic, hundreds of thousands of young men in Serbia stood at the altar of martyrdom and deserved the greatest war medals by defeating the greatest military force of the time. But I can't always have medals assigned to war and I can't have a country in charge just with a gun in my hand. Thousands of Serbs have made an immeasurable contribution to human civilization. How many of our ancestors we are proud of today and how they celebrated the name of Serbia without a rifle in our hand? They didn't offer the world our greatest faults as our greatest virtues, they owed cultural heritage, civilization heritage, they did the works we've impressed the whole world. Of course, these people should be decorated and of course we have such people today and of course they will be in the future. I am convinced that young people in Serbia do not want to be heroes of lost wars or guardians of missed opportunities. I believe that the young people of this country believe that victory is no longer won on the charge, but victory is won by knowledge, victory is won on the field of sports, in the field of competition science, culture, art. People who reach such levels to win some of the world's competitions should certainly be rewarded, even decorated. What about cops, who every day oppose crime, especially organised crime, risk their lives and stand in defense of the Constitution and this coat of arms that we all stand before, for which some heroes once gave life and received great war medals? Of course, a cop standing in front of guns of armed criminals and violent men should be decorated. What about firemen jumping into flames and saving people's lives? Well, they should be decorated. What should we say about the heroes of the work? They should be decorated, too. I cannot share the opinion of some MPs in this room that participation in war implies and participation in war crimes. Since the war, there have been war crimes, but war criminals do not belong to medals; war criminals belong to the court, condemnation and contempt, primarily to the people from whom they themselves originate, and then to all mankind. On the other hand, war heroes raised to examples of humanity and heroism, in the words of the unforgettable, in the works of our ancestors certainly belong among the distinguished members of our people. I am absolutely convinced that Serbia, in its definition of peace, in its determination to exchange civilizational values with the world, never again in this country, should, and has a way for all its citizens to point out certain achievements in the field of science, culture, art rewards, because this is how we raise future generations and create role models for children; that role models will be these heroes of peacetime Serbia; that role models will also be those heroes of war Serbia, but that there will never be more role models in this country that shoot at the president of the government, that they will never again be those people who are rich in crime, that never again will be those people who shoot at the back of 16 years, that never again will be role models in this country will be those who are on the accused bench because of the most shameful acts that have been committed, or those people who avoid justice are responsible for what they have done. If we want Serbia as a normal, modern European country that will have its place on the world's civilization map, in the family of European peoples, of course we will potentiate the values they deserve to be and how they are marked as values of young people. Of course, anyone who wants good to this country and its citizens doesn't want this country to participate in any pointless war, in any pointless move. Of course no one who sits in this hall and lives in this country thinks that the country should defend itself when attacked, but it is necessary to make a clear distinction and draw a line between heroes who are willing to sacrifice themselves for their country and those quasiheros who are willing to sacrifice others to be declared heroes. At the time of the great war conflicts that were in our space, people who brutally dealt with other peoples were very easily declared heroes, so they gained the right to deal with our people as well... (President: National MP, I remind you of the obligation of Article 103, therefore, on the agenda. To conclude, if we want to raise young generations in the right role models, then those who celebrate this country in peace should be decorated, set an example for young people and future generations. Those who have sinned against the law cannot be declared heroes and cannot expect medals, but only justice, judgment and contempt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41162	Seven minutes has been used since the MPs' time. National MP Dusan Maric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41163	Ladies and gentlemen, no one normal in Serbia, no one normal in this home can wish that Serbian young men ever deserve medals in the field of battle. It can't be desired by anyone normal, not only in Serbian, but in any nation in the world, and I don't believe it's what they want. However, I hope that we all agree that the young Serb generations should be brought up, if they find themselves in a situation where their country is attacked, that it is necessary for these medals to be earned with a rifle in their hand, on the battlefield, defending their homeland, defending their home threshold, defending their family, if we want Serbia to exist, if there is a parliament, to adopt laws, among other things, and the law on distinctions. I just want to say that I agree that the medals of the previous generation of the Serbian people did not deserve only on the battlefield; the fact is that there are thousands of Serbs who have earned these medals in a different way. However, the unquestionable fact -- that there were no men with a gun in their hand, who earned medals in the field of battle, who earned medals defending Serbia, defending the country, would not have been the medals of those who earned them in other ways, with great achievements in science, sports and other ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41164	One minute and forty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41165	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, I will make one heresy and, unlike the previous speakers, I will try to talk about the amendment. I'm sorry that Mr. Markovic is present here, simply because he's neither guilty nor indebted to these laws and, as one smart man just said, he seems to be serving here as an iceban, but here's what this is all about. The amendment I submitted to article 2 on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia is identical to Mr Martinovic's amendment. We, however, have not heard the explanation, but I suppose this could also be an explanation for Mr. Martinovic's amendment. It's about the next one. Article 9 of the current law, which lists the types of medals to be awarded, meant to be awarded medals for courage, medals for merits and medals for defence and security. In Article 2 of the amendment and the addition of this law, amendments were made to add the words "Milos Obilic" to point 1) after the words "Brath Medals" were added. We don't have anything to do with it. There's a historical reason to do it. Also, something else is changing, and I don't understand why it's changing, and I don't understand it for any reason. It is proposed to introduce instead of medals for defence and security – a medal for zealous service. First, I think it's completely inappropriate to... Here, I'll wait, I've got 42 minutes, I'll wait for Mrs. Kolundji to finish. So, in a certain way, the medal is abolished for defence and security, as if the defense and security of Alajbeg's straw. I don't completely understand. Be careful, in order to earn a medal for defence and security, it is meant that someone at work does something good for the state. It certainly is not done every day and it is certainly some achievement and should be rewarded with a medal. So we end it, and we introduce a medal for zealous service. I'd like the promoter to explain to me what a zealous service is. I think every employee in the state has to do their jobs zealously, because the employer, whether it's private or state, will fire him if he doesn't. I guess that means he's coming to work regularly, doing the jobs he's entrusted with according to his abilities and needs of the company he's working in. I'm not going to say that he might have some kind of subjective relationship with the bosses, but that's probably what it's all about. So that's something I don't see why it would be necessary to award a special medal. It's something that everyone... It's normal for an employee to do the job he's been entrusted with zealously. What's the medal for? At the same time, the medal for defence and security is lifted. It's not good. It's not really good, and I'm terribly surprised that the government turned down this amendment. I suppose the government didn't ask much, though, but that it was the one who wrote this proposal. Since in the meantime I found out what part of the government he came from, then I'm not so surprised. That part didn't work under the previous governments either, so it's no good now. In any case, however, I ask that the present Minister Markovic be considered and that the medal be maintained for defence and security, and that this burden of zealous service be erased, because in a certain way he makes fun of the idea of awarding medals, medals and even rewarding individuals for certain works for which they are responsible. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41166	Three minutes and fifty seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41167	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, and above all, distinguished citizens, I am surprised at times that some parties who are calling for the tradition of the Serb people, in the history of the Serbian people, are so easily crossing through some very exact historical data and facts. So the medal for zealous service is not the product of the Democratic Party or of this government. If anyone looks closely at the history of heraldics, the history of the Kingdom of Serbia's medals, they will see that the medal for zealous service was founded and established on 19 April 1913. It was awarded in two degrees: gold medals and silver medals for zealous service. It explains -- it was assigned to officers, officers, soldiers and citizens for loyal and zealous service, as well as to help the Serb army during the war. In 1922, a spectrum of merits for which this medal could be awarded was extended, so the medal could be obtained for outstanding and dedicated service in the peacetime. The medal was worn on the blue tape, it is available in all military museums of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just going to read to you everyone in Serbian history from famous Serbs, and above all, Serbian military leaders, had this medal. All four celebrated Serbian dukes from World War I, Misic, Petar Bojovic, Stepa Stepanovic, Radomir Putnik, had this medal because they served zealously and loyally in the Republic of Serbia, that is, the Kingdom of Serbia. Among the people who wore this medal, among other things, was Major Dragutin Gavrilovic, a man who impressed the world in October 1915 with his speech, and won the medal only as commander of the 12th Infantry regiment "Car Lazar" in Kruševec, after the First World War, for zealous service in the 12th Infantry regiment. The medal for the zealous service involved a much wider range of activities and opportunities to gain from defence and security. It takes credit for defence and security because it was firstly established for officers, officers and civil servants who made an immeasurable contribution to the safety of the Kingdom of Serbia. Later, it came to the conclusion that the zealous service involves not only a zealous service in the field of security, but also in some other fields and that such devotion to the Kingdom, and today the Republic of Serbia needs to be rewarded. I don't see why we would now invent historical circumstances, end Serbian tradition, end history. If someone is already calling for it to be a traditional party, why now wants to deny what our historical heritage is and why does someone now say this is a joke with tradition, if this is a fact? Besides, whoever doesn't believe me and my exposure, walk to the Army Museum in Calemegdan. That's where all the medals are exposed. There are also several copies of a medal for zealous service. The one who's in Calemegdan is a long way off I'm calling for him to come to my house. I'm under the circumstances, and my grandfather, the First Company of the First Battalion of the 10th Infantry Regiment, is the bearer of this medal. I think that the descendants of these people today are aware of how hard this medal has been earned and I think that the citizens of Serbia would be proud to continue the continuity of that medal after so many years, so, after the interruption of that continuity, because it connects us to our past, but above all, that we share that medal with those who will be responsible for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41168	Four minutes and thirty seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's MP Zoran Shami has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41169	Mr. Milivojevic, you've been working on samples, I don't do that, but I have to warn you next. I said that what we are introducing among the medals of the Order of Karadjordje star, among the medals "Milos Obilić", that it is all perfectly fine and in accordance with some tradition, recognizable etc. But from 1913 to the day today, on the one hand, you will allow the term “poor service ” to change its meaning a little bit, and on the other hand, I do not know how in the relevant law of 1913 it was written, but in this law it does not say that it applies to soldiers first and to their loyalty to the country. None of this is written, but only written – for zealous service. It's a poor service. Here, Mr. Odalovic is doing his job zealously, so we can give him a medal; here MPs are doing their job zealously, so let's give them a medal too, etc. I think it's inappropriate for the spirit of today, early in the 21st century, to have that term. When you say Order of Karadjordje's stars, when you say Medal of Courage "Milos Obilić", everyone knows what this is about. But when you say a medal for zealous service, no one knows what it's about. That's the problem. If it was known in 1913, in 2010, it is unfortunately no longer known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41170	One minute and fifty seconds. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41171	The Honorable Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, if someone does not know why a medal for zealous service is awarded and if someone does not know what a zealous service is, they cannot impose their ignorance on the apriors as ignorance of the entire people. He can complement and replace his ignorance in the library, museum or historical facts and details, but I think every day, in the 21st century, he knows what a zealous service is and everyone knows what continuity is with Serbian tradition. I do not see any problem in establishing a medal for zealous service in the 21st century, for everyone understands what a zealous service is. After all, on all these orders that we talked about, mentioned here, from Karadjordje's star to Medal Milos Obilić, it clearly writes, through Serbian history and tradition, why they were assigned. The Albanian monument was written – for the country's allegiance in 1915. The Medal of Milos Obilić is written for the courage of Milos Obilić. And so it's written on the star of Karajord, which is why the star was assigned. Now I'm going to tell you, Mr. Nikolic, they're writing years when the Karajord star was assigned. They've been changed three times that year. Go to the Military Museum, it's not that far, you can come in, see what the stars of Karajord look like. So, I think that the medal for zealous service has its place today among Serbian medals and medals, that this is a good solution and that it represents a connection with Serbian tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41172	A minute and forty-five seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41173	I can see that this power is being played and the law by which medals and medals are being awarded, as is being played for our entire country, so in a year we change the law, and thus we show everyone that we have no tradition, that is, we have received a power that doesn't hold much to tradition. Here a man could blame a lot of things if he's a traditionalist, or a lot of things today if he's a modern understanding. I don't know what the government was run in 2009, when it passed this law, and which was managed in 2010, when it was changed. Someone now remembered the star of Karadjordje and remembered that it was assigned to him who successfully represents the state and its citizens. Now convince me, you who visit museums at "The Night of Museums" that, since there is such a star in our house, one of my illiterate peasants successfully represented the Serbian state and its citizens on the Thessaloniki front. I think this is a prelude to the citizens of Serbia whose tradition is to the loyalty of the country. You remembered at once Milos Obilic and Karadjordj, by telling Karadjordje that he is the creator of a new modern Serbian state. So be it, but for the name of Karadjordja, nothing but raising a knight's uprising. I'm sure you can't link the creation of a modern Serbian state to Karadjorgia. He didn't have time to create it. It was created by Obrenovići, and I'm surprised that you didn't think of something for the Obrenovićs, at least to call it after the Obrenovićs. Turns out you favor a monarchy. As far as we're concerned, whatever you call medals and medals, whoever wears them will be proud of the country he got them from, not the authority that made up their names. So it would be very good if you were very specific about what it's assigned to and who can get it. This is really how there's a suspicion in us that we don't believe in anything anymore that you're going to find someone in power who's going to get a medal for zeal. What is the view of zeal? Civil or military? In the state administration or in the field? Can a peasant get a medal for zeal? I don't think so. What's he doing to prove he's been working from today to tomorrow? To who to prove it to? The Rewards Commission? You're playing, it's your time to tradition, it's not your tradition. That's why this law is one of your laws that, if you stay in power long enough, in four or five months, there will be some more changes. Because you don't have laws that you haven't changed, because you don't listen to the voice of reason that tells you what's wrong with it, you refuse it. That's the star we mentioned in the discussions when you passed this law. You ran away from her like the devil from the cross. It was a time when you said that Europe had no alternative. Today is a time when your attitudes are very close to our attitudes, you count – if we even ourselves with the advances in attitudes, maybe we can beat them. No way. You don't stand a chance anymore. You can change whatever you want, now you can tie yourself to the Chetnik movement. Who will believe you to be honest when you make any law? As far as we're concerned, we're going to be changing a lot in Serbia. Maybe we won't change this law. We're just interested, when you come before us with one law, where's the end of the amendments and the addition of that law? When are you going to see one law to the end, all its consequences? When are you going to consider all the objections to this law and accept it as serious people, not to change the law when you think that no one remembers what he told you about that bill? I therefore appeal to those among you who may have little seriousness to reason with those who are unserious. It is not Serbia's nursery; there must be some laws that will never change, or at least in a hundred years. The English are rising, and they're more modern and modern than us and they live better than we are, and they're more advanced than we are. They're raised by laws that only change when it's a big emergency, because they make good laws. This parliament is in a bad position because it makes bad laws. Bad laws are passed by most of you. Bad laws change the same most of them that brought them. Aren't you ashamed? Why don't you just put aside the laws that need to be changed and say, we're ashamed to change this after we passed it five or six months ago. We ask you that when you win, you change these laws that we were ashamed of, and we will one day say, it is a shame for us because we have passed this law, when you win, you change it. When the master bends the wall, it's in vain that he offers you to fix that wall, because if he knew the right to make it, he would immediately make it right. You must bring another master. Serbia must bring in another power to correct these walls that you have covered. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41174	Thank you. Mr. Milivojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41175	It's interesting every reminder in this room of Serbian tradition. Sometimes it comes from the Chetnik dukes who during their term of office were in a position to at least return the coat of arms with the crown, not to have a five-pointer, and today they act as if we were suffering from collective amnesia, as if it were in the last century, when they had the opportunity to return Serbian medals and medals. You asked me what it says on Karajord's star just now. It says: “For faith and freedom, 1804 years. ” Faith in one man's ideals and principles is reflected throughout his political action. Fighting for freedom is something that is unique to the Serbian people. But if someone as a Chetnik duke forgets that he was a Chetnik duke under a five-pointer and wasn't trying to change what's in his way as a Chetnik duke, how is he going to convince someone that he's going to fix tomorrow, like a Chetnik duke, something this government will do, if he's in position and he's not going to be? I understand the anxiety of charismatic losers, who don't care that Boris Tadic may assign a medal in another term and I understand the anxiety of those people who may not be able to get over being the Chetnik dukes, but not only did they not correct the walls, but they undermined the gods and foundations. I understand the anxiety of those people who today can't easily break into their heads that Serbia has its own coat of arms, its own anthem, its traditional features, so it gets its own medals. I don't want to break up with them, because that kind of controversy doesn't lead anywhere. In order for someone to be in a position to fix something, they must first wonder if they are able to fix it, because sometimes it is out of desire to fix something that gives rise to a desire to make something very bad and it is impossible to fix it afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41176	I was just about to ask you to bring all this into contact with the amendment to Article 2 on the agenda. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41177	Mr. Vice President, I was talking about the law, and you allowed one of the ruling majority MPs to talk about me. I do not understand such a way of holding a session, but I accept that you had some duty to keep your mouth shut while the MP speaks and finally to say that you are not satisfied with what he said outside of the Rules of Procedure. I really have no reason to argue with Mr. Milivojevic. I don't know what made him talk to me in the first place, especially what threw him to mention my title as the Chetnik Duke, because I'm proud of her. He can make fun of it all he wants. It would be ideal for you, Mr. Milivoevich, to allow us here in the Assembly to do our job. Ideally, Mr Milivojevic, if Boris Tadic would allow us in Serbia to deal with politics in a normal way. If your president has threatened to use everything at his disposal so we can never win, then I'm surprised you gave me your word at all, Mr. Vice President. We will defeat you, because we do not threaten you, we do not insult you. We don't betray you. I'm saying you're one big and serious political party, but you're starting to look like your coalition partners. Among them you, Mr. Milivojevic, the most. It is not appropriate for a member of the Democratic Party to address the opposition MP, however much he does not love him, in the way you spoke to me. I respect you as the messenger chosen by the people, I will never say a bad word about you, and that is why we will win. And because you're bitching about some victory for Boris Tadic, well, you know how you're standing right now. If the country doesn't turn to the other side, you won the next election. Thank you very much, Mr. Milivoevich, for giving me the opportunity to speak in this assembly, maybe they wouldn't give me a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41178	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic, and I really apologize for unwarrantedly allowing certain personal matters to be brought up. I ask the MPs not to do this, for proper discussion, not verbal abuse... was quite, by my standard, well spoken and well led so far. I was too late to warn, and that's my second apology. I give the word to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41179	Dear Chairman, I'm using the right to replication. I think the same criterion should apply to everyone. So if someone thinks that from the position of the opposition they can say anything at the expense of us who here represent the parliamentary majority of the will of the Serbian citizens, and at the same time cannot bear any response, then I don't think they understand either their position or the position of this institution. So, what I'm saying is that it's nonsense to claim here that we're approaching their program, first of all because someone who changes attitudes can get closer to someone who's had attitudes for twenty years, and certainly not the other way around. So someone who has just woken up and changed all their attitudes can only conclude that he has drawn close to the attitudes of those who have held on for two decades. At the same time, I would like to say that to accuse President Boris Tadic of, at a purely political meeting, saying that as a politician, he would use all democratic means to enable Serbia to continue through European integration, to continue through recovery, democratisation and development, that the forces that have shown that they do not understand what the interests of Serbia, which they have shown, when they have been able to lead this country, that they are unable to understand the time in which they live, or that they understand the interests of their own citizens, should not come to power and that, as a responsible politician, using, of course, democratic means, they will do anything to ensure that such forces do not come to another Serbian citizens in an unenviable position, in which they were once... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41180	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic Tomislav has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41181	All that would be nice if your party president wasn't the president of Serbia. So the president of Serbia cannot threaten political opponents to do everything in his power to prevent them from coming to power. The only way we can get to power is the election. Is that Serbia's president threatening there won't be a choice at all? Is that threatening to respect the election results? It was a clear, open threat in pre-election silence to hold elections, the additional local elections in Arangelovac. So we take it well, Mrs. Kolundzija, as a threat to the president of the Republic of Serbia that he will not let us win the elections. That's the only way to figure it out. You can tell me – Mr. Nikolic, I will do everything in my power, my party will do everything in our power to make your victory impossible by political means. The president of Serbia cannot tell me that. I am ashamed to have such a president of Serbia. I'd jump into a well to drown when they hear in the world that the President of the Republic threatened the political parties. After twenty years of a multi-party system, after ten years of power by democratic, pro-European forces, you are threatening that the President of the Republic will do everything in his power not to win the election. I would have covered my ears in my head and kept my mouth shut for at least a year, because the media can't mention it, until the citizens of Serbia forget what the elected president said at his coalition partner's assembly, PUPS. Don't, please, talk about it when I woke up. So, you're approaching our views, you're now saying that you are unimaginable of independence from Kosovo and Metohija. [[I think I'm speaking in replica.]] Your president said in one campaign that he was not optimistic and that Kosovo would rather be independent than Serbian. Fortunately, there are media records of what he said. Please don't get too involved in the controversy with us, you'll lose them. Please continue your path, as you have begun, to suffer the blackmails of your coalition partners, to drag Serbia's budget into at least three or four parts, to make Serbia's roads at least four parties, as you give each of them money, to release G17 plus to spend the budget to form its own party at regional level, to let some regions form according to the national key, as you started. That's what we're going to have to change when we win the election, and you're going to have that election, whether the president of Serbia wants it or not, you're going to have to give it to us sometime.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41182	Fortunately, there is a stenogram, but there is a agenda. I would ask that we return to this topic and finish, not to compete whose last one will be, but to finish the discussion, which I can't even relate to my imagination with the agenda. But since we've reached where we are, Mrs. Kolundjia will certainly get her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41183	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, but there's a way when someone starts talking about what's not a topic, to break it up and bring it back, because you can't challenge others' ability to react to something that's out of the question, and it's about them. So it is quite clear that only someone who can say that they will reconsider the judicial decision to kill Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and that if he is convinced that he is innocent, he will let him go, he may think that when a politician says that he will do anything with all democratic means to ensure that the negative political forces do not come and take over power... You can really understand why you can understand it that way. Anyone else who understands that this is a democratic country, that the elections will be called when they are timed in 2012, can understand that the president of one political party at a political rally has a lot of and legitimate right to send a political message that he says – because I know that it is the interest of Serbian citizens to continue through European integration, should not come to power those forces that are unable to lead Serbia that way. It's no threat, no matter how hard you try to present it as a threat. It is no threat that there will be no choice, no matter how you might do it in his place eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41184	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41185	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly. We really shouldn't listen to Republicans, Chetnik dukes, and Mrs. Kolundji. I'm sorry, Mrs. Kolundzija, what Mr. Nikolic is saying really doesn't make sense, but remember how much resources and resources you've invested to make that party when it's detached from these. Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic were in the media for a year more than the LDP was... (President: Mr. Stayer, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is. Why do we have to listen to this? I urge us to return to the agenda. Here it is as if they are opposition to them, that they have nothing to do with them, and we should listen to it. Well, we're not squirrels. So, stop this discussion, we'll get back to the agenda. They both have their hands dirty about this. Yes, Mr. Nikolic has now woken up, he's realized everything, he's become a European, tomorrow he'll be for NATO, I guess, it's all nice. They're criticizing them now, and they did everything they could to build this party, so now they're repenting. You know what, there's a folk saying, I'm not going to repeat it now because it doesn't comply with Parliament's dignity. Let's get back to the agenda and not listen to the opposition here, like, overrun with Mr. Nikolic, among the ruling majority, Mr. Milivojevic, who has some responsibility to always report and explain how they are both Serbs and Europeans, etc. Let go of these stories, please, it's late, let's get the job done. This Parliament is working effectively. Almost no law in the procedure, the government is now lagging behind parliament. If this is some way to make it harder for Parliament to work, to wait for the government, then say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41186	Thank you. If you hadn't advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which otherwise doesn't exist and you didn't call, we would have already ended up. But thank you for this, too. I think the exchange of political views was lively, that it was successful on both sides, I'm not going to arbitration, of course, but we've completed a review of the bill in particular, so I'm asking if the proposing's representative wants to give the final word? You have no right to a replica. Mr. Nikolic, we've finished the discussion, I said, you've called for a replica, you don't have the right to a replica, I've concluded, I've completed the search, so I'm asking the promoter's representative if he wants to give the final word? No, I don't. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41187	I can't believe you don't hear me report a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You insult the dignity of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure say that when an MP mentions me, I have the right to a replica. In a negative context, I have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-05-19-0.u41188	The breach of the Rules of Procedure by pointing to a violation of the right to replication, apparently, does not exist. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure, only you abuse the right which the Rules of Procedure allow the MP to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is what we've done today's work. We'll continue tomorrow, Thursday, May 20th, 10:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
