ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. I would like to remind you that Article 96 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are in the hall now, so there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35752	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for Mr Dacic's interior minister. I asked him that question first in writing, and I want to do it in public like this, counting, first of all, on the support of the entire parliament in condemning an unacceptable form of political action with, for us, and I believe for every normal man, truly tragic consequences. In fact, we all know there's an election campaign under way in Negotin. Each of us has the right to political space in Negotina and to fight for that space, but we think it is unacceptable not to choose funds in this political struggle. I want to tell you that our list bearer in Negotina Mrs. Radmila Gerov is a victim of a campaign that we cannot reconcile with and cannot agree to, a campaign that is unacceptable to us not only because she is vulgar and anti-civilizing, but also because she is a direct victim of that campaign by the mother of Mrs. Gerov, who passed away after seeing flyers who are anonymously divided into Negotina, in which her daughter is compromised through photo montage. Each of us was the victim of some dirty campaign, but I don't think we ever acted together to stop something like that. Mrs. Gerov's mother was, by the way, seriously ill and this propaganda material, a criminal, which was distributed by Negotina, she found herself at the door of the apartment she lives in. She called the police, then the ambulance and died. We asked the Minister of the Interior to launch an investigation to arrest those who, in such a way, were using material that was unacceptable to us, which was misused (I don't want to show it here, it's not for the Assembly), finally responsible for something like that. Remember the 2008 election, the President of the Republic, who is drawn on the gallows, remember everything that each of us has been through and find your strength to condemn such a piece. We all have families, wives, children, parents, and I don't think we can go beyond the animal, animal needs of someone who's supposed to be a political opponent, and he's not actually a human being, to destroy our lives so that he can take the place that we were in. We ask Mr Dacic to launch an investigation, to tell us what he did with those who have violated a whole series of members of the Criminal Code - 128, 145, 152, and 172. We want to see these people in court, on the defendant's bench, we want to see an effective prosecution and sanctions for such political action. If a political campaign is allowed to destroy a person's life, then that policy, which in this way wins space for itself, will tomorrow destroy other people's lives, others, will not stop on the LDP voter's list. Now this is not an initiative aimed at the benefit that LDP is seeking to solve this problem, I think this is our common need. I wish we could ask other questions today, but it didn't stop. Mrs. Gerov's mother was buried a week ago, and it continues to this day, and the police have to stop it by applying the law. The integrity of a person must be safeguarded, whether it be a politician, a local councilman, a priest, a professor, a policeman, a judge... Each of us has integrity and we have no right to ignore a system that is not effective in protecting that integrity. What's the second time that such a thing can be done if it's not an invitation for the police to apply the law? Yesterday is who knows which one of us was in that position, today is Mrs. Gerov. I want us to put an end to it, so that tomorrow each of us can do his job the way he thinks he should do it, without questioning himself as a person, or jeopardizing members of his family. I repeat again, what is tragic is the fate of Rose Stevanovic, who died with that flyer in her hand. We expect the interior minister to remind the non-China police of the urgency and obligation to comply with the law, because I don't think it should be just one initiative this time that has been launched and that will cover up oblivion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35753	Thank you. On behalf of myself, and I suppose, on behalf of all MPs, I estimate that the degradation of a person, especially with the consequences that are found to be the result, is indeed unacceptable and all the institutions of our system should, within their own powers, take appropriate measures. It will be forwarded to the Minister of the Interior both as a question and as a suggestion. The word is by Mr. Slobodan Samardzic, as an authorised representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35754	Thank you. The assembly discussed KIM for the last time in December 17, 2008. Since then, many things have happened in the southern Serbian province. It's been 15 months, and that topic wasn't on the agenda. This assembly touched on the issues only through the MPs' institutes, and that is when opposition members would use three or five minutes to say something about it. A lot of things have happened. Eulex came with no legal basis for KIM. A protocol on police co-operation with EULEX was signed, which should, on the Kosovo side, be conducted by the Kosovo Police Service. Visa liberalisation for Serbia was adopted, with the sacrifice of citizens in KIM. Meanwhile, many parliaments -- both the European Parliament and the national European Parliaments and many governments, the European Commission, the Council of Ministers, the State Department -- discussed KIM. Only the Serbian Parliament did not pay any attention to the issue. We don't think that's allowed. More recently, there has been a lot of reason for the congregation to take this issue seriously. Many representatives of European states say the condition of Serbia's European integration is to establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. Yesterday, French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said the opening of Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue is a condition for Serbia and Kosovo's European integration as two states. There was no adequate response, at least not in public, by our officials. He then went to Pristina and said the issue was closed for France, that Kosovo is an independent state. The European Commission is leading an ambitious policy towards our country on KIM. On the one hand, it encourages our authorities to participate in European integration, to work as much as possible, and on the other hand it practically treats Kosovo as an independent state. And there is too much reason and reason for this assembly, as the highest representative home of Serbia, the people of Serbia, Serbia, which officially says that KIM is part of Serbia, to put the issue on the agenda. Indeed, for every criticism that it was not the case for 15 months and that, in order to speak about it in this assembly, the opposition had to use parliamentary questions. What's the problem? The DSS MPs' club requires not a single statement or a notification, we demand that the president of the Serbian government submit a report on the KIM situation in 2009. That, as a Parliament, we have a right. So, in that report, let's see what the government has been doing on this plan, but more than that, to open up a debate on the issue. Probably this representative body would have something to say and help the government in this situation and the situation we're in. She was crucified between promises and blackmail by Washington and Brussels and certainly not easy for her, but, in our opinion, she doesn't swim well with these waters. And why shouldn't the congregation talk about it? Therefore, we feel that this is a very urgent matter to do. If the 2009 report is necessary and if it is a cause, it should be found at the most recent time on the agenda of this house, to open the debate, to reach conclusions and then indeed the state, as a whole, headed by the Assembly, leads this policy. We understand that the government is implementing politics, but it's implementing its policy, not the Parliament's policy, because the Assembly hasn't even discussed this, even if it hasn't given any shifts to the government. It is high time and we demand, once again, that the Prime Minister submit a report to the Assembly and that a session be called to discuss the situation at KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35755	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35756	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a very interesting question. Justid's company paid millions of euros for ambulances. There's still a lot of people who paid her. That company is blocked. It has a founding capital of 26,000 euros and five founders, who are anonymous. It's registered neatly in the court register. It's not on the credit card list because it's long gone. He owes the state five and a half million euros. Tomica Milosavljevic has paid a million euros and has nothing to do with it. So, who is this firm? Who's the company owner? How will the state be compensated in this situation? The Minister of Health throws himself so much money that it's simply inexplicable. I'd like to repeat another question that's very interesting. I asked him last time, and I haven't got any answers yet, nor was anyone interested in answering that question. Is there anyone who can interrupt the work on Corridor 10, where the optical cable is placed? In a conversation with the Resort Minister for Infrastructure, he told me that for the first time in his life he heard that someone had given approval to do so. Who is the firm and is it true that one of the co-owners of Oliver Dulic's company is the brother and the other is the Slovenian tycoon? The company doesn't have a director, there's no one. It was founded with three thousand euros in Belgrade. She got a job without a tender, and already works are being carried out on the route of Croatia's borders to Belgrade. The cost of the investment is 25m euros in nine months. A clean annual profit from only that piece from the Croatian border to Belgrade is 45m euros annually. What about this company? Can these papers be done? Who put pressure on public enterprises to give all consent within two days and to give papers and building permits after a brief procedure? How is it possible that the whole job goes without a tender? I remember perfectly well that once upon a time, at one of the government's sessions, a decision was made to make that optical cable, but to be the income of JP "The Ways of Serbia" or "Telecoma" and to fully finance the funds of these public enterprises and to collect income that will be extremely large. Now moving into phase two on Corridor 10 to set up a optic cable, which, by chance... You know how she entered a small door cable television in Serbia, into every household, and now with optical cables she enters the country and it will be a completely free system, given to tycoons to work outside the state system and beyond any damage to the state of Serbia. Another major project, carried by Minister Dulic, is now being prepared. It's protection, what the UN is doing now, from carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, etc. A private company is being prepared, tycoon, which will also be doing certain jobs there. There is some documentation about this. So, for all of this, there's documentation, there's deadlines. Is it possible for consent to be obtained in one day, that personally Minister Dulic visits companies and orders that it be signed and all papers are given, and we know that in Belgrade construction permits certain public enterprises have been waiting for years? I'm really asking you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35757	Part of your questions were, in fact, repeated, and we were immediately after the session when the government was here the next day, forwarding these questions and expecting an answer. This second part of the issue will also be forwarded to the government. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35758	My question concerns the duty of four municipalities, chosen by accident, and I ask the Ministry of Finance to deliver a reply in written form, I hope to all MPs because it is not a secret matter, a ratio of duty and budget income for the period 1.1.2008-31.12.2009 for municipalities: Kragujevac, Jagodina, Zrenjanin and Odžci. In order to provide us with precise information when and on what requirements are agreed on the maximum level of borrowing in accordance with the Public Debt Act, that this information contains information on the responsibilities of the municipality to perform performers and whether an advance has been paid to some contractors for works that have not been carried out so far. The reason why I ask such a question is about the issue of issuing state land under changed circumstances for Kragujevac, among other things, but the reason for this is the very unequal giving of NIP funds by municipalities. We can't get the impression that political reasons direct decisions of this kind or that kind, but to be able to talk about it precisely, knowing that the Ministry of Finance is giving consent, but also has reliable data, because local self-government is providing them with final accounts and reports on it, I expect that we get this answer as soon as possible. I have one question for Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who we have not been able to ask because of such a thoughtless way of questioning the government on the last Thursday of the month, which concerns something that is opposed to all our publicly expressed efforts for the family, the birth and the fight against the white plague, and in practice, Mr. Dinkic has a list for the release of three pregnant women, one of which is in the ninth month, and two of them are in the seventh. One of those pregnant women has this accident to re-experience domicile justice, in the same way that, as the only intern in the then Capital Value Assessment Directorate, she would lose her job, so that now, when she was able to stay in her second condition and have another child, in the ninth month of pregnancy, she would see her name on the list of those who were fired. According to estimates for the work of these pregnant women, who have nothing to do with the list, I hope that the responsible will take action, but I hope even before I hope that there is another law in this country and that pregnant women cannot be fired under such circumstances, in a more advanced pregnancy, while at the same time talking about fighting for family, state and future generations. And lastly, to respect it may be important and formal reasons, both the guard and the choir and the hymns and all that has welcomed us this morning, but the essence of respect for this House is that the questions we are asking here are answered. The essential respect we expect is what the executive authority must show us not only by doing us services of this kind, in adopting the Law on the National Assembly, where the status of MPs has not increased in terms of reputation, to which we personally contribute, but I ask the Government to provide answers to these and these questions within the prescribed deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35759	National MP Jovan Damjanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35760	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, on behalf of the Democratic Left of Roma, I appeal to certain institutions and ministries to enable electricity to internally displaced persons across Serbia and the poorest, socially endangered population of the Roma community. A few days ago, groups of Roma nationalities came from many Serbian cities and asked me to appeal to the Assembly and certain ministries to do something to enable electricity to be made available to internally displaced persons and the poorest layer. We have in a country where for two years, the Roma have no electricity because they have no financial ability to pay for what they need - electricity consumption. I believe that we have the International Decade of Roma, we have a strategy that was adopted in the Serbian government and I expect and I urge that something be done to enable this lowest and poorest layer of electricity, if not other needs and normal life. I expect this from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and certain relevant social institutions. Once again I appeal to be done and to enable electricity, but not to one family, it must be decided at the state level how these debts will be written off, because indeed the Roma community is unable to pay what is necessary. We hope that institutions and states will do what is necessary to enable the electricity of these citizens living as they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35761	Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35762	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at this solemn moment, after many years, I have to ask the Secretary of the Assembly to provide me with some answers, because it will be easier for me to understand some proceedings and some parties. I think it was in 2005 when the DS came out of the Serbian Parliament and for several months they didn't return to the assembly benches, but that's why they only respected the register from the entire institution as a congregation, so I'm interested -- how many DS MPs raised on behalf of the salary, how many in the name of the cobwebs and how many in the name of the diaries? There's a simple question -- how can we judge when DS is really telling the truth or when it acts the way it believes or acts just the way it's interested? Because here, we are now aware of the fact that DS wants, apparently, to raise the reputation of this institution, and today this was most like those former actions -- 'And after Tito Tito'. The guard, the anthem, apparently everything's nice, we respect each other, and basically behind that is a simple farce. Those of you who make an enterprise out of the congregation, you want to introduce the MPs into a hired relationship, punish them unless they give you a quorum (because you are unable to provide quorum or an anthem), you want to convince us that you are supposed to fight for some new values. I think when that data is obtained, we'll be able to assess how you behave. I'm sure your only motto is your benefit, personal, political and nothing else. The second question I would ask the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, to answer us by when we, as a state, will suffer humiliation. We've been a Interpol member for many years. However, the question arises why I still need to remain a member of Interpol. If we are unilaterally to meet the obligations of that membership, the question is why we remain there. This latest event, related to Ejup Ganic, best shows the attitude towards our country when it comes to the institution. Remember Agim Ceku, Stanko Subotic Canet and many others. The question arises why we should remain a member of that institution. It is war criminals, who have innocent Serb victims on their souls, especially when it comes to Ejup Ganic. Remember that film and slaughter a JNA soldier in a column in Tuzla, for which he is personally responsible. Remember Agim Ceku. They've all been arrested and released after a while. Then why is our country in such an institution, what are we looking for? I would like to ask the MUP to provide us with all the information - who was arrested by our arrest warrants, and then released and to assess whether or not we should continue to remain in that institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35763	Thank you. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Minister of Finance, I have also called for the meetings of Vesna Hreljac-Ivanovic, Assistant Finance Minister Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Finance Minister Višnja Kuzmanovic from the Public Debt Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Dragisa Martinovic from the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas". The first, second, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 and the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes for the previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any objection to those minutes in writing. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 26 October 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 154 MPs, it's 125. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I vote on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 26, 27 and 28 October, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 20 and 23 November and 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10, and 11 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 135 MPs, it's 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 and 30 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, it is 126. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 30 November 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, it's 125. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I put to the vote the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 8 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 128 MPs, it's 127. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I put to the vote the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held on 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 21 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, it's 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, held 21, 22, 23, 24, 28, and 29 December 2009. Please make a statement. Of the 129 MPs, it's 124. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this record. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of emergency acts, to extend the agenda, to combine the debate and to change the order of the agenda. The National Bank of Serbia proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2009. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 30 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Vladan Batic proposed that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 December 2009, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, no one is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Vladan Batic proposed that the draft law supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, no one is in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. ` A group of 24 MPs from the G17 Plus Group suggested that the draft law on public property, property and other property rights of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government should be put on the agenda. Please plead. Of the 127 MPs, it's 22. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan and Financing Treaty between KFW, Frankfurt in Main, and the Republic of Serbia – the medium size water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia-phase 2 which was submitted on 22 January 2010. I'm putting a motion to vote. Of the 128 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the Bank of Intesa, Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Prime Minister and Cataster, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. President of the National Assembly, Prof. Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliament Assembly of Francophonia since 24 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 January 2010, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Refinancing of short-term debt, construction of the underground gas storage plant and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution networks) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to elect a president and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Action, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour of this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Innovation Activity, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 February 2010. I'm putting this motion to the vote. All 126 MPs voted for this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal. The SPS-JS parliamentary group submitted a proposal on 23 December 2009 to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal to be taken by emergency procedure. I would like to remind you that the provision of Article 42(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the National Assembly decided on the resolution and selection of a new member of the Committee at the first next session following the submission of a proposal for a parliamentary group, so there was no need to make a special statement on this proposal because it was included in the draft agenda of this session in the letter of the Rules of Procedure, which is the 32nd point of the proposed agenda. We're going to propose an expansion of the agenda. National MP Radojko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be extended to the point - the 2008 final budget audit report for the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the State Audit Institute on 27 November 2009, and that the report be placed on the agenda as the first item of the agenda. Please make a statement. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35764	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia was the last to receive a state audit in Europe and the last in Europe to receive a DRI report. The law was passed in November 2005. The state audit was elected in autumn 2007, and the working conditions were practically acquired only when the opposition in this Assembly adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the state audit on 23 January 2009. The state audit provided the Serbian Parliament with a report on the 2008 final budget account on 27.11.2009. It should be pointed out in particular that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, which is otherwise an obligation under the law, discussed the report and unanimously proposed to the Assembly on 7 December 2009. The debate on this report is the legal obligation of the National Assembly, as several members of the DRI Act, Articles 35, 43, 47 and 48 predict it is an extremely important thing that this parliament must declare. The National Assembly has a legislative, but also an extremely important control function. The DRI report and the debate is the most important thing in the implementation of this control function. It has been announced several times that it will be held at the first session of the regular session, and among 32 points there are no reports of DRI. The right of each ruling majority and parliament speaker is to create a agenda, but it is necessary once again to prove that this is so important to Parliament that there is not one important thing among 32 points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35765	I thank and ask the MPs to plead with me on this proposal. Of the 187 MPs, 60 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic suggested that the agenda be extended to the point - the draft law on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 December 2009, and that the draft law be placed on the agenda as the second item of the agenda. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35766	The last item is the State Audit report, and it is similar with the final budget bill law and the debate on all matters concerning finance and the way state money is spent only makes sense if the final account is discussed. Only with the State Audit report have the conditions to discuss and adopt the budget's final account at all. It's quite surprising to me either when this point wasn't in the agenda either. I suggested that the agenda be extended. This is far more important than any provision and Law on the National Assembly, more important than any provision of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, that the Assembly carry out its control function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35767	Thank you. Please make a statement. Of the 188 MPs, 56 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic is, on the basis of Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that a common principle search be carried out, a common principle and a single search and a joint single search on the proposals for the actions set out in the proposed agenda, which are complemented by the agenda. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic's proposal was sent to you on 1 March 2010. Does Mr. Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Of the 147 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal to change the order of the agenda. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic is, on the basis of Articles 90, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed a change in the order of the agenda. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic's proposal was sent to you on 1 March 2010. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. Of the 138 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, for extending the agenda, for bringing the debate together and for changing the order of the agenda points, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I'd like to make a statement about the draft agenda in general. Of the 136 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Customs Code; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens; 4. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I. B.V. Amsterdam, from Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad; 5. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Banca Intesa, a.d. Belgrade, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad; 6. Proposal for a law on preschool education and education; 7. Proposal for a Law on student and student standards; 8. Proposal for a law on game and hunting; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Action; 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Innovation Activity; 11. Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts; 12. Proposal for a law on geographical indications; 13. Proposal for a Law on Amnesty; 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Crossover and Catastrophe; 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on international transport in road transport; 16. Proposal for a law confirming the patent law Treaty; 17. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Nova Agreement on International Classification of Goods and Services for the Registration of trade marks from 15 June 1957, revised in Stockholm on 14 July 1967 and Geneva on 13 May 1977 and amended on 28 September 1979; 18 Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on police co-operation; 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on police co-operation in the fight against crime; 20. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Israel on co-operation in the fight against illegal trafficking and drug abuse and psychotropic substances, terrorism and other serious crimes; 21. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation on the reading of persons illegally staying with the Protocol on the application of the Agreement; 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on police co-operation; 23. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the surrender and acceptance of a person whose entry or stay is illegal, with the Protocol implementing the Agreement; 24. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway on the reading of persons who are illegally staying; 25. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy on the implementation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Community on the reading of persons who are illegally staying; 26. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain on reciprocal recognition and replacement of national driving licences; 27. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic; 28. Proposal for a bill to confirm the border crossing agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina; 29. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Refinancing of short-term debt, construction of an underground gas warehouse and maintenance of gas transmission and distribution networks) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 30. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan and Financing Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt, Majna and the Republic of Serbia – Water supply and sewerage programme in medium size municipalities in Serbia I – Phase 2; 31. Proposal for a law confirming the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties; 32. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the United States on the status of international school in Belgrade; 33. List of candidates for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency; 34. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President and members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures; 35. Proposal for a selection of Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, submitted by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection; 36. Application for the discharge of the post of member of the Health Council of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by Prof. Dr. Slobodan Jankovic (number 118-40/10 of 13 January 2010); 37. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the Parliament Assembly of Francophonia, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (number 02-510/10 of 24 February 2010); 38. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) parliamentary group, Unity Serbia (JS) (number 02-3868/09 of 23 December 2009). We move to the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE CARIN LAW (joint principle search of item 1-5) Consently decided by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the law on items 1-5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups, shall be five hours and shall be allocated to the MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the MPs' group, and that shall be the MEP's group 'For European Serbia' - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS MP's group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP's group "Forward, Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the MEP group "New Serbia" - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Send group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak each and every one, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent: MP Milan Nikolic of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, MP Arsen Djuric of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Dragan Stevanovic of the SRS parliamentary group. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: a proposal for customs law, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Ersta GCIB Finance I.B.V. Amsterdam, with Erste Bank a.d. Novi Sad as an agent, Marfin Bank a.d. Belgrade and Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. and the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa a.d. Belgrade under the authority of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35768	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must appeal to Article 27. A Rules of Procedure, which in some ways defines the duties of the President of the Assembly. Among other things, the president prescribes that the work of the National Assembly should be handled in a timely and coordinated manner, and other tasks provided for in the law and in this Rules of Procedure. Given that here are the united points of the agenda that are very large (I will mention only, as you have mentioned, customs law, and amendments to the Law on the Profits of Citizens, Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens and Two Loans - amounting to 170 and 160 million euros, means a total of 330), Madam President, we do not have the elemental information on which we could conduct a normal debate on all of this. The first thing we care about is whether, and to this, he was bound by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, SPS MP Dusan Bajatovic, informed you that he is in conflict of interest, in a classic conflict of interest, because he is also an MP and director of "Srbijagas"? Here, under the first item of the agenda, a debate is being held on the loan parliament is due to approve of "Srbigas". (President: Please allow the MP to hear it.) This is the Minister of Finance. I don't know if any normal man in this country or anyone who thinks he's normal can go to a bank and take credit under these circumstances? We're really interested in helping this society. We consider crediting the state to be a normal business. On what basis do you expect us to participate in this debate? We don't have any information, absolutely none. The deadline for "Srbigas" expired at midnight tonight. We're interested in the company's business report for the previous year. How much does this company owe - 170 million, 100 million? Does he do business positively? If we're going to have a debate about this, we need to have information on the basis of which we can lead this debate as normal people. First, it was the obligation of the SPS MPs to inform you that he was in conflict of interest and to exclude himself from this debate and certainly to exclude himself from the vote, if we respect the law. And after that, give us information on which we can have an argument. We don't have any information.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35769	A very competent representative of the promoter is here and I hope that we will be able to remove any ambiguities during the debate, both in principle and in particular, taking into account all your suggestions, but I don't think there is any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to make a statement in the Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) All right, the Assembly will declare in the Voting Day the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic wants to re-advertise the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35770	Madam President, I'm afraid you didn't understand. In Parliament you have two MPs who are directly in conflict of interest and which law, which we, as Parliament, have adopted, commits to timely informing you, as speaker of Parliament, about the existence of a conflict of interest, and then exempts them from deciding on these points of the agenda. I am interested in whether MP Vlahovic, as a member of the Management Board of the Erste Bank and MP Bajatovic, as director of the "Srbijagas", informed you that they are in conflict of interest? This isn't about my request to go to the voter's office right now. We can't arbitration whether it's Tuesday or not today. If we set up a guard, if there was an anthem choir here, if we want to raise this Parliament's dignity and build credibility in front of the citizens, then we need to talk in a different way. There's no information based on which we can... It's true, the finance minister is here, he can tell us anything, but we're interested in the financial report, and he's not here. Secondly, did the MPs inform you that they are in a classic conflict of interest? You were the subject of a campaign in the media because you co-operated part-time with one pharmaceutical company, so you had to justify yourself to the public why you did it and finally gave up those other functions and that other job. We're interested in whether or not the other MPs are ready to act like you. So there's nothing here to ask for either Bajatovic or Vlahovic, especially in the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35771	As a member of the expert team, I didn't cooperate, but I delivered expert opinions, but fine. I'd like to tell you that we are under obligation to comply with the law, whose provision goes into effect on 1 April. That provision comes into force on 1 April, so we decided. Does the representative of Mrs Diana Dragutinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have a set of five financial laws in front of you. The first three relate to the revenue side of the budget and concern customs, income tax and corporate tax. The other two laws concern the financial side, the financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia due to budget deficits, i.e. giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia JP "Serbia". I'll take this opportunity to introduce you, in short, to all five laws. The first law before us is customs law. I would remind you that the last changes in customs law took place in 2003. From 2003 to today, there have been many changes in international regulations, as well as domestic laws. All of this led to the need to amend this law. We all know that the aim of the Republic of Serbia is to become a full member of the EU, but also of the World Trade Organisation. That is why, above all, the customs law of the Republic of Serbia should have been brought into line with EU legislation and the rules of the World Trade Organisation. In addition, there is a very important convention, which has been ratified, the Kyoto Convention, with which the law has also been agreed. The new customs law aims to bring its legislation into line, standardise customs procedures and modernise the customs administration. It's a very technical law, and that's why I'm going to talk very briefly about it. It is written on 110 pages, with a clear structure, which includes: general rules, procedures, duties, customs debt, protection of intellectual property rights, sales of goods and infringements. In the first part, which describes definitions, the definitions are given, I would say, textbookly accurate. When I talk about definitions, I mean definitions of what a customs authority is, customs status of goods, customs debt, customs controls, customs controls, customs procedures, customs formalities, declarations, definition of domestic and foreign goods, the right to represent the status of authorised persons. What is new in this customs law is the introduction of a previous declaration, as well as the simplified customs procedures. Therefore, in the context of customs procedures known to be known, procedures have been simplified. I would merely like to tax that simplified procedures concerning: transit procedure, storage procedure, active processing, processing procedure under customs control, temporary imports, passive processing and export procedure are simplified. Beneficiary imports are allowed, so a contingent for raw materials and equipment. In part seven precisely defined what is a customs debt, what is a security to pay the customs debt, as a customs debt, a compensatory interest, a payment of debt and a discharge of debt has arisen. Finally, the customs offence was determined at maximum altitude, four times the value of the goods. I said it was a purely technical law, so I would move on to the other two laws, which are fundamental to the fiscal capacity of the Serbian economy. The second law in front of you is the Company Tax Act. I'd only put out the most important changes in this law, and I think these changes, I think you're going to judge it yourself, really in the right direction. One change group is essentially about the harmonisation of this law with the Accounting and Audit Act, i.e. International Accounting Standards. Such changes are possible for the tax period to differ from the calendar year. The next change relating to the International Accounting Standards, Article 40, is the introduction of the possibility that, for the purpose of determining capital gains, the purchase price of assets, i.e. immovableities, can be adjusted to an estimated fair value. The next change, which essentially refers to the expansion of the scope, is a broader coverage of the income of the non-resident obligor, including income based on the implementation of a estrad, fun, artistic, sports or similar programme, unless these revenues are taxed on the income of natural persons. In addition, the branch, as a permanent establishment of a non-resident obligor, is subject to the application of this law. There is another group of changes, and it is, in practice, related to the removal of some members of the existing law. Which members are being expelled? These are, first of all, members of 42nd and 43rd. Those who know the content of this law know that the members of 42nd and 43rd are related to the calculation of depreciation, therefore to accelerated depreciation. They're being kicked out because they haven't produced any facts in real life. This way the law will be simpler. Also, the important provision of a law that is completely deleted is Article 49. It practically refers to the possibility of using a tax credit based on the employment of workers indefinitely. Why has a member who refers to the possibility of using a tax credit been deleted? Because it is not usual for more laws to offer the possibility of tax credits on the same basis. Therefore, it is possible to obtain tax credit based on the employment of workers indefinitely by another law. Just to remind you, it's a law that taxes the income of citizens and contributes to compulsory social security. In addition to evicting some members of the law, there has been a value adjustment of the amount based on the right to exercise tax incentives. So this is just about maintaining the real value of investment. The next group of changes under this law is, in fact, a change that brings this law into line with previous changes to the Law on Income Tax and the Property Tax Act, and the aim is to encourage the development of the securities market. Therefore, the change says that capital gains are not realised by selling debt securities of value of which the issuer of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, the local self-government unit or the National Bank of Serbia, equating tax stimulation with the solutions of the Law on Income Tax. Also, the change I would not like to miss this opportunity refers to a reduction in the time limit for transferring business losses to profit in the next period and capital losses at the expense of future capital gains. This period has been ten years, these changes are reduced to five years, and this is in agreement with best international practice. In part, the initiative of the American Chamber of Commerce was accepted and expenditure on advertising and propaganda was recognised as costs, but their amount is limited to 5% of total revenues, as well as the costs of the team, whose value is also limited, but to 0.5% of total revenues. Finally, there is a different way of preventing a continual capitalisation, which will allow for more real profit-making, primarily in the financial sector. The third law in front of you is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Income Tax. They were done here, I'd say, mostly cosmetic shifts. I would remind you that this law, in fact, cedularly taxes different sources of income, that the law distinguishes four legal rates on income, which are 10, 12, 14 and 20, and that only the existence of normised costs, in fact, doubles this number of rates from four to eight. What did this law want? Harmonize the rate of income on capital with a tax rate on profit. In any case, three main objectives are to change this law: the need to stimulate the development of the capital market, to introduce equal tax treatment for the taxpayer of the annual income tax and to stimulate the development of the area of security of the person. The most significant changes, there are not many, are: the rate of income tax has been reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent; the rate of capital gains is reduced from 20 per cent; the level of non-taxable amount for all taxpayers of annual income tax, means residents and non-residents; the rate of income tax has been reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent; the concept of income tax on self-employed persons and in 2011 is not determined and does not pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry on cadastrian income. The next law that allows you to finance the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget by borrowing. It's about the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Erste Bank, the Marfin Bank and the Vojvodjanska Banka. The law envisions the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, again undermining -- the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of funding the deficit, amounting to 160m euros, with the amount of borrowing divided into 16 parties by 10m euros. The borrowing will be carried out by concluding a long-term borrowing contract. The process of public procurement of financial services was carried out and during the public procurement process it was found that Erste Bank, with Erste Banka, a.d. Novi Sad, submitted the most favourable bid for four parties she applied for, worth 40m euros; the Marfin Bank has submitted the most favourable offer for 10 parties she has competed for, worth 100m euros and the Vojvodina Bank has submitted the most favourable bid for two parties it has applied for, worth 20m euros. When it comes to the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the Erste Bank, the interest rate is equal to the sum of one month's reference interest rates (euribor) and fixed interest margins of 4.25%. When it comes to borrowing the Republic of Serbia at the "Marfin Bank", the conditions of borrowing are something different -- the interest rate is equal to the sum of one month of reference interest rates, plus the interest margin of 4.35%. At the Vojvodjanska Banka, the exact same conditions are in debt. It's a five-year-old loan, with a rest period of one year. Finally, the last law in front of you is the proposal for a guarantee law of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the 'Banke Intez' a.d. Belgrade, based on the borrowing of JP "Serbias" from Novi Sad. It is a debt of 170m euros, with the debt split into three parts: 120m euros is a debt to refinance short-term liabilities that "Srbigas" has to commercial banks; 30m euros is a debt to finance current liquidity and 20m euros is a debt to finance additional investments. The conditions under which JP "Srbigas" is due are the nominal interest rate, which is equal to the sum of the three-month Eurobor, plus 4.8% margin. The period due is eight years, with three years of rest. Dear People's MPs, these were the financial laws that lie ahead of you. Please support the financial laws in voting day and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35773	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35774	Mrs. Comic, the speaker of parliament has injured the Rules of Procedure. In fact, Article 104 says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The explanation she offered me is unacceptable not because I disagree with what she said, but because it is a direct misreading of the law. I asked a very clear question whether she, as Parliament's president, was informed, in accordance with the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, that two MPs are the parliamentary majority in the classical conflict of interest. Instead of answering whether it was notified or not, the president of parliament told me that the law has been applied since 1 April. By April 1st, Mrs Comic, MPs who are in conflict of interest are due to opt for one of the functions, and the law has been applied since 1 January. So, for three months now, it has been the law that obliges the two parliamentary majority MPs to address parliament presidents before the start of the debate with the information that they are in conflict of interest and that this is why they cannot participate in the decision, and by 1 April they should decide whether to sit in the position of the director of "Serbia" or MPs in the Serbian Parliament, whether they will be on the board of directors of a bank or be MPs. If the President of Parliament must be justice for conflict of interest, if each of us should do so, then I think they are obliged to do so by the MPs who participate here in the debate and who will vote, who have already voted and who do not have the right to do so under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I think my question was very clear and that the President of Parliament had violated the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35775	People's MP, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Maybe the language formula is what makes a mistake. Any person subject to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act shall have the obligation until 1 April to define one of the functions if there are two so as to constitute a conflict of interest. It has been said briefly that this provision enters into force on 1 April, so there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for your position that a person who is a MP cannot vote, that is, unfortunately, not true. As long as the term of office of the MP goes on, he has all the rights and responsibilities that arise from that mandate. All MPs and all others who are acting under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act are obliged to make a decision by 1 April. It's a law that applies to an individual, not an institution, and there was a confusion, and that's where I agree with you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Second breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35776	Mrs. Comic, you didn't understand. I can absolutely agree with your argument, but that is not an answer to the question asked by the President of Parliament. I'll tell you again after you misread it. Your experience as a MP can be your personal position, it can be an expression of your party's political commitment, but Article 32. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which we have adopted together, says that the provisions of this article do not exclude the application of the exemption provisions prescribed by the laws governing judicial or administrative proceedings. An individual act in which an official who had to be excluded because of conflict of interest had to take place is null and void. So there is a conflict of interest here, and MPs in conflict of interest have until April 1st to identify which function they will perform. However, they are obliged to inform the president of parliament that they are in conflict of interest. I want to know if she's been notified or not. That's very clear, here's the law here. I don't think you have any evil will, but (obviously the secretary helps you interpret) that's not so. The obligation is to report conflicts of interest, MPs are obliged to do so. I'm telling you because anyone who calls on this bill will be able to bring the vote down.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35777	We agree in the application of the law, and I can only repeat that the Rules of Procedure are not injured. By 1 April, when a conflict of interest is established, the Act on the Agency has determined that anyone in conflict of interest has an obligation to define one function, i.e. by his decision on resignation, resolution, termination of appointment, whatever, to end the status of conflict of interest. The congregation has no information about that. Therefore, all MPs, some of whom may be in conflict of interest, some of whom, by April 1, we will see, have all the rights that arise from their mandate. Does MP Milan J. Nikolic, as rapporteur of the board of directors, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the right to receive the word is the rapporteurs of the committees in charge. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs who issued their opinion - MP Slobodan Maras, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intesa, Belgrade under the responsibility of JP "Srbijas" Novi Sad and MP Petar Jojic, at the session of the Legislative Committee, on the proposal for a customs law and a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on corporate tax? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35778	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this debate that the president of the LDP just tried to lead with you, or to explain to you that you're breaking the law again, is not the first time. You also violated the Expropriation Act, when you allowed Jugorosgas to blow up the country. It's interesting that when the president of the Assembly read the agenda points, she accidentally made one lapus, but I think she's a great clagworth for this story. She said – the border we give to "Erste Bank", i.e. the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It was supposed to be "guarantee." But I think the point is -- where is the limit to giving guarantees to losers? Railway, EPS, Serbianagas... Madam Minister, today is March 2nd, you came here to the Assembly to propose this law, to the Assembly to accept that the state of Serbia should guarantee the "Serbiagas" and you did not tell us what the debt of "Serbiagas" is. It's $170 million, as much as we're taking from Erste Bank. Madam Minister, I have to tell you, here in the explanation that the funds of this loan will be used to refinance short-term liabilities to commercial banks and finance the maintenance of liquid liquidity. Just to point out that the loan grant fee is 1.2% of the total amount, i.e. 2m euros. We'll take 170m euros from Erste Bank. We don't know how long "Serbiagas" is. The final bill had to be handed over. I ask you only: How long will the state not solve the causes, but deal with the consequences? How did "Serbiagas" make so much debt? Is it because he's in business, because Belgrade Power Plants or I don't know who doesn't pay gas for last season? As far as we know in public, the debt of the Belgrade Power Plants is four billion. Why didn't you give the guarantees to the Belgrade Power Plants, so they could take the loan? Here now, the "Serbigas" will refinance its existing loans, i.e. to buy Russian gas so that it can provide heating to this country and operating the economy. I am proud that, along with my fellow MPs and a small number of MPs, I was against an oil-gas arrangement that you gave 51% of the ownership, or 100% of the management of the NIS. You've done this now with the Banatian Court, and here's the man from the Serbians, so let him say, "The Banatical Court is no longer Serbian." The Banatical Court is 51% Russian, with 100% government. Why are we building a new gas warehouse? Madam Minister, I'll explain why we're building a new gas storage facility. Everywhere in the world, gas warehouses are built at a distance of at least a thousand kilometers. We'll build in Itebey. Why? Because we don't have our own warehouse anymore, because the price of gas will be determined by the Russians. And we need a new warehouse in Itebe because that's what Europe is looking for. You know that well, Europe requires every country to have gas supplies that it stores. Where are we gonna keep the supplies? In the Banatian court, obviously we won't, because renting will be the most expensive possible. It's a commercial story. The Russians are the bosses and the end of the story. I just want to say how much deception has been made in this assembly, and above all by the government and some MPs of the famous Russians, that Serbia will earn 200m euros from taxis when the "South Stream" is built. That's the biggest lie that's ever been told here. There are no taxes the state receives, the state can only collect taxes, and that if profits are shown by the company, and the company will again be owned by Russia. How many more lies? I expected you to tell us here – the debt of "Serbiagas" is so big, it came about and that's why, we have to give guarantees that the economy can work and that the citizens can get warm when it's winter. But to come here without a single word that seriously justifies the kind of guarantee Serbia gives, of 170m euros? Then we will have a guarantee for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where there will be stories about the construction of a new warehouse. That's why I have to ask you... I apologize, Madam Chairman, on the Committee we had all the points united, where this point of guarantee we give to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Banks of Intez were united. I've singled out my opinion, and now I see it's separate. I'm just asking you if I can use five minutes when it's that part of the agenda, because it was all united on the board. I've issued an opinion on those two questions, but I don't know if that's how... When it comes to that warehouse, we have a lot to talk about, and I want to take five minutes to take advantage of that law when it comes to order.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35779	Which isn't within this point? Yeah, you'll be entitled to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35780	It was united there, it's separated here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35781	I understand. I thought you wanted to use time twice now, which is impossible. All right, when it's on the agenda, of course, you'll have the right to use five minutes after the debate is united. National MP Petar Jojic? He's not here. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word from the smallest to the greatest? The PUPS, the president or the authorised representative? No, I don't. Thank you. A group of minorities? No, I don't. Thank you. New Serbia MP group? No, I don't. ) In this case, the word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LPD parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35782	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are looking forward to the beginning of the regular session of the Assembly. We wish everyone successful work, and we will try to continue with that policy that has marked the activities of our party in this assembly so far. It is good that you, Mrs Dragutinovic, are the first representative of the government to meet in this regular session, but it is bad that you continue with the old practice. So I want to remind you once again that there is no man in this country looking for money, and that he is not ready to make an analysis of the reasons he is in charge of, to predict the effects of this task and that the formal guarantees offered in the papers, but the arguments that the one who decides on this task should convince him that he is capable of solving the problems he faces, and we are obviously facing a lack of funds, we are indivisible. So, Mrs Dragutinović, I don't know how we can speak equally. I am concerned about a debate in which representatives of the ruling majority do not want to participate. A representative of the coalition that has the Minister of Energy and who chose the director of the "Srbigas" does not want to participate in this debate, there is no Prime Minister, we do not hear any arguments in the discussion. Everything you've told us is absolutely okay, but it's not enough. How long is "Serbiagas"? How was that debt created? How will that be solved? What guarantees us that this 170 million, plus that 160, that's 330 million euros... Is it that we leave it for about 36 months and someone will think about it in 2013 or 2014, but what guarantees us that this time the epilogue will be positive, given that all previous decisions, unfortunately, have ended with very bad consequences for this country, and we have approved them as parliament? We have ratified a state agreement here in the Assembly between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on the privatisation of Serbia's oil-energy sector. The monopoly of our country has been passed on to the Russian state, explaining that the Russians will take better care of Serbia's energy needs than we do and that the different path is impossible. We agreed to the underrated privatisation of NIS, which eventually ended up being compromised on both sides. You are compromised by that decision in our eyes, and then you are compromised in the eyes of those who have made the deal with you, which is the Russians, and it is won by seven-eight billion at the end as a minus 30m euros. Today we pay the most expensive gas and oil derivatives in the region, and when we enter the business, we enter with the guarantees that we have provided to the citizens of Serbia that it will feel concretely and quickly through the most favourable energy price, and then through the revenues that Mr. Maras spoke of, the revenues that the state will collect by charging the South Stream tax on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We have seen that the company that is to manage the "South Stream" team in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, first, is not mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia but by Russia, and then is the headquarters of the company in Switzerland, and will pay taxes there, not here in Belgrade. Now I ask you, Mrs Dragutinovic, how much does "Serbigas" owe. Tonight, at midnight, every company in Serbia was required to complete financial reports. The first March is, a financial report must be submitted. By March 15th, we, as citizens, hand over our taxes to the IRS, so we pay taxes. Since I'm paying taxes, I'm interested in how this country is doing that tax I'm paying. How long is "Serbiagas"? How did he come to be? How does that debt come about? Why are we the only country that runs such an energy policy that practically destroys its own future? We are interested in when the government will appear before parliament with a different kind of ambition. The low price of gas at the end, in the consumer's case, is just by the welfare of the state for it, and then what you don't take from each of us as a consumer who pays for heating, let's say, at the end of each month, you take through these loans and guarantees we provide. Why is the price of energy in Serbia not economic – do we have the right to have an answer to such a question? When will it be economic? What are the obstacles to establishing such a price? How can we lead such an energy policy that the gas being extracted here in Serbia pays...? It's small, it's 8%. That's 220,000 times 8%. What's little is enough for someone to spot a paradox. How many cubic meters a year is that? Here, I'll tell you how much – from 2.3 to 2.4 million cubic meters. Eight percent, about 200,000 cubic meters, so multiply that by $450. What's a thousand cc's? That's not small. It's a paradox, so we pay our gas at the price of imported gas. So, the gas coming in who knows where from, from Russia, the citizens of Serbia cost like gas being extracted in Vojvodina. Is there another country in the world where it is? What's the explanation? That we can't do anything. So, that's right, the Russians can decide who they sell to and at what price. If we don't, they'll buy somebody else. How did we get to that position? Does the government still think he's holding us hostage to this great delusion, which in the meantime has been challenged where it was created? Well, Russia itself is changing its energy orientation. The South Stream was the result of a misunderstanding in energy policy between Russia and Ukraine. Meanwhile, political changes in Ukraine have unblocked these processes, and today Russia can not only transport its gas across Ukraine's territory, but also participate in ownership of the pipeline. The state policy of Ukraine today brings into that energy space a new idea - a third of the European Union, a third of Ukraine and a third of Russia. Through these capacities, Russia can transport the full gas it produces for the next 30 years. Germany unblocked the moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants. That's what Italy does. Liquid gas is an energy that is highly esteemed and more transportable by pipeline. Gus became a stockbroker. It's all relativating the speed of the South Stream. Is that a problem for other countries? It's not. If he does, it'll be great. If he's not there, nobody's doing anything, 'cause they didn't put anything into it. The only country that has brought something concrete into the South Stream is Serbia. Bulgaria did not give its oil industry. Hungary has not given its oil industry. Italy didn't give its oil industry. Completely even, 50-50%, participate in the realisation of a job that is more than uncertain today. If he does, he'll be there in 10 or 15 years. Meanwhile, Serbian citizens will pay for the most expensive gas and the most expensive oil derivatives, and Serbia's monopoly will be replaced by Russia's monopoly. Well, Putin is Putin because something like that wasn't possible in Russia when he came to power. And what is no longer possible in Russia has become a rule of life in Serbia. I wonder if, when you came here as finance minister (you're the first public finance man, "Srbigas" is a public enterprise), you've received a report. I'm asking you -- how much of the sponsorship was spent by "Srbigas", which has an alleged loss of 170m euros, and no one really knows what it is? How much money did he spend on sponsorship? What money did Srbigas take part in the privatisation of Informatics? You're the finance minister, that's what you do. What are the effects of taking over a whole series of failed companies in Serbia? Do these companies' commitments towards employees also take over through this takeover, according to those against whom the debts by these companies exist? What kind of policy does "Serbiagas" run? What does "Serbiagas" have to do with insurance companies? "Serbigas" is involved with a Russian insurance company in insurance business. Is there another company in the world that deals with gas, who also wants to run politics in Glasslari, Azotari, Kikinda, in some insurance company, Informatics? It's a javelin. When we talk about this customs law, then it's much more important to us, Mrs Dragutinovic, to customs policy. We support simplifying the procedure, it is absolutely acceptable for us, and we need to take care of the unblocked trade agreement with the EU, but we are interested in customs policy. The revenues at which the State accounts at the customs rates established are significant, but at the same time produce significant damages on the other hand. That's what citizens most often don't know. We often protect the parts of our economy by transferring too much burden to society. We are interested in the reform of customs policy. It's something that stands before us, and for us, it's much more important that customs rate law than this. But, okay, if it's brought, we support it and we have nothing against it. If we're talking about the World Trade Organisation, the GAT, that they signed here with countries in the region, then Turkey, then it's something that can't give a full effect without a different policy. So, the new economy, well, let's say, new customs policy, simplifying procedures, can only give full effect if one bad policy is released. What's the customs policy we're taking to countries in the region? What is the customs policy that we are leading towards Kosovo, on which we have twice as much market as in Russia? We now export twice as much to Kosovo as to Russia. The victims of that orientation are Serbs living in Kosovo. What is our customs policy towards Bosnia? Orientation, commitment to Croatia? That's what we want from you, as finance minister, to hear. Slovenia is in the EU, and there is a different obligation ahead of us. That's what you didn't tell us, and we're very interested in something like that. When do you think you're changing customs rates? In 2003, we defined one policy, through the process of harmonising and harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic relations, and I know very well how much trouble there is and how careful it should be. But we did this seven years ago, and then we announced to producers in Serbia, companies that were protected by customs policy, the time frames in which customs policy would be liberalised, because the state is obliged to protect citizens and not only producers who are not willing to withstand competition. And if the constant issue of monopoly is raised in Serbia, then, among other things, these monopolies have gained legitimacy through customs policy that makes the unequal position of those who want to appear in the markets in Serbia. We are interested in this kind of economic freedom which is a prerequisite for creating a normal market, which will then allow you to have healthier finances. I'd go back to Srbiagas. You've seen the paradox I've marked the beginning of this debate. We think it is not normal for the director of companies that have such huge losses, although he is an MP, to take part in the debate without informing the president of parliament before that, which is his legal obligation, that he is in conflict of interest, which he still does not know how he will solve because he has another month ahead of him by April 1st. But you're the finance minister. So we're taking a total of 330m euros for "Srbigas" and you're asking us to. The reasons you offered us speak of a loan that will be used to refinance the commitments received according to the credit obligations previously taken. Why does "Serbigas" have to take a new loan to refinance the loans he previously took? Does this mean that in six months or a year, we're going to be taking credit to refinance the loan we took two years ago? We would like you to tell us very specifically about it here in Parliament, so that we can come forward afterwards. Does anyone in the gas business record losses as "Srbigas"? They don't record. "Srbijagas" has a loss of 170m euros, and "Yugorosgas", an intermediary, records a positive business of nearly 30m euros. Why don't we reduce the loss of the state's public enterprise by the 30m euros taken by the middleman, and the business of the middleman is absolutely unnecessary? Have you ever, as finance minister, asked the government to regulate this relationship in direct contact with the Russian Federation? It is not true that this must be the case, because from October 2000 to 2005 we did these jobs without a mediator. So, no middleman until there's been a change in ownership relations within that company. The state is conscious, i.e. individuals who misused their position in it, ignored the public interest, assuming their private interest. So she lost 50% of her ownership at Jugorosgas, leaving 25% of her shares to the other side. The moment the Russian partner became the majority owner, the company began to record positive business. Today, 30m euros ends with the mediators, and we here need to lend the "Serbiagas", which 30m euros had to pay. Why is that? I'm the director of the "Serbiagas" said it was an unsustainable situation, that it would lead to an investigation and determine responsibility for something like that. Did you insist on "Serbigas" when he showed up with this request before you to eliminate the middleman from the job? Do you know how many employees are employed by Jugorosgas? According to the information we found, five. It's a phantom company. Poles and many other countries don't have an intermediary when they buy gas from the Russians. There are intermediaries in countries like Serbia, there are similar examples, but they only talk about the degree of corruption. If we're fighting corruption, then let's point to these systemic problems. There's no middleman in business between the two states, that's impossible. No energy policy that depends on intermediaries in relation to Russia and Serbia is involved. There were no intermediaries here between us and the president of the Russian Federation in the Assembly. He was talking, and we were listening. No one translated and interpreted his words to us. This is the way it should be in the energy agreement between Russia and Serbia. If you want LDP support, first eliminate Jugorosgas from a job in which it is now located and takes 30m euros a year from mediation and does nothing, stop reporting in the company, break up all the harmful contracts that the company has made and which are useful only at the level of political corruption, oppose the practice of gasification of Serbia that monitors local election campaigns (because this is the most expensive) and make an analysis (as is done in every serious company) of the effects of certain policies and face this analysis of the "Serbian leadership", so find better if they can't work better, because these results are devastating. This vision of social ageing, which the Government has so much insistence on and which justice is lost because we are allegedly unable to earn money to pay our own needs, is particularly condemned because what is not charged to citizens through an account at the end of the month is charged through these decisions made on their behalf. We think everyone who works has the right to the full price of their work. If that's "Serbigas", let's pay for gas as much as it costs in Serbia. If it's electricity, let's pay what it costs. Allow people to earn money for your expenses and abandon the idea of a country that will live life instead of its citizens. You don't have to follow something like that. It's a tough economic situation. We have the right to criticize you for proposing a clear alternative at all times. We said -- no problem, the moment the first pipeline enters Serbia, an agreement with the Russian Federation on an equal footing, as was the case, let's say, in 1996, when the SRJ made an identical agreement with the Russian Federation, but on an entirely equal basis. When the pipeline enters, then the Russians can benefit from Serbia's energy market. (President: 20 minutes. If he doesn't, there's no use for them. You didn't want to understand, and now we're facing the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35783	The speech is attended by MP Milan J. Nikolic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35784	Dear Presidency, distinguished Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have, among other things, one draft law, two proposals for amending and supplementing the law and two proposals for office. It is a proposal for customs law, a draft law amending and supplementing the company tax law and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax. It can be concluded from the point of view that fiscal laws, which are essentially what the laws show, are strategic economic incentives, proposals that encourage, above all, potential investors to find an economic interest in investing in Serbia through convenience in a simplified customs procedure, but also to exempt from paying taxes on profits and other tax duties, tax exemptions that are lower than those in the environment, avoiding double taxation and free availability of profits. The common feature of all legal projects is to simplify procedures in procedures and to bring European legislation closer. In fact, the proposal for customs law continues the path towards Serbia's full membership in the World Trade Organisation and the EU, as it brings into line with EU legislation, in particular, but also in times of expansion of international trade, traffic, as well as various forms of international economic co-operation, particularly in various forms of imports, processing, processing, active and passive processing of goods, will make the legal regulatory appropriate levels of trade development. This bill actually provides effective monitoring of goods and capital flows under the conditions of an open market economy and an increasing liberalisation of the transport of goods. At the same time, the law provides for the protection of Serbia's financial interests, protecting the country from illegal and illegal trade, security and protection of people and the environment and increasing competitiveness of the domestic economy through the modernisation of the customs administration and creating an opportunity to facilitate international trade. In fact, we have before us a proposal for a modern law of simplified customs procedures and faster and more efficient customs duties with the possibility of using electronic correspondence, so that the implementation of this law speeds up the customs procedures and reduces the costs of external trade. The draft law also provides for the possibility of obtaining the status of an authorised economic operator for economic operators seeking such status, and customs offices and the Customs Administration will assign such authorisation to the economic operator in the process of reviewing and obtaining an opinion. The holders of such authorisations shall enjoy a number of reliefs related to the simplification of the customs procedure and customs controls. The bill also provides for the obligation of the customs authorities to grant so-called. binding notifications, in particular in the part of the classification of goods, but also other notifications concerning the application of customs regulations. The proposal regulates the amount of import and export duties on the basis of the tariff laid down in specific law. The tariff system lays down customs rates per commodity type, which are, in fact, the levers of the Government for intervention in the area of trade in goods with other countries. This directly implements the policy of protecting domestic production and the country's development policy. In particular, a system of work is developed, imports for processing and re-exporting, processing of certain products, etc. I think this is a very important segment of the bill. Serbia's economy, in particular the processing part, is highly dependent on imports, so that conditions for competitiveness are created through the institutions of business, especially final producers, where no customs duties are paid on imports of raw materials or products. More importantly, if the product is processed in customs zones, it is not accounted for and does not pay VAT, which, however, is returned within 45 days, but if paid, the funds are engaged and it is very important that it is not paid at all for production in those customs zones, since our economy is inexplicably insolvent. I would say that the law interferes with economic operators from the country, but also from abroad, to organise production in these customs areas, making huge savings and costing production, which opens up a competitive opportunity for them when they export, and the customs procedure comes down to mere registration. Therefore, the bill contains the basic principles on which the EU Customs Law is based and is in line with the World Trade Organisation's and World Customs Organisation's views. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the adoption of such a law in the voting day. The draft law amending and supplementing the Company Tax Act has been defined as amending and supplementing the basic law of 2004, although I believe that the basic law has already suffered more changes and additions. Since almost every member of the basic law has been completed or amended and some deleted, it may have been more appropriate to adopt, or offer the Assembly a new draft law for adoption, thus achieving rationality, if the whole of the legal matter were found in one place, which would be beneficial for all economic operators. Otherwise, the Serbian government based its economic policy on the essential implementation of fiscal reform and the construction of a facilitated tax system in application, as well as the construction of an incentive tax system. In fact, this bill aims to accelerate the development and competitiveness of economic operators through fiscal policy, primarily through the creation of a motive for investment investment and employment. The stimulative tax rate has a direct economic impact on the need to develop economic operators. Otherwise, to remind myself that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has already passed several economic laws, the Accounting and Audit Act, the Business Society Act, the Bank Act, the Foreign Exchange Act, the Securities Market Act, etc., so that the need to comply with certain standards laid down in the laws adopted under the Company Tax Act is inevitably imposed. Taxation of profits and the establishment of a tax base for all taxpayers, such as the parties to legal persons, small legal persons, extends the number of taxpayers and, with the direct application of International Accounting Standards, provides for taxation and payment of capital gains by non-residents and non-residents from abroad who have business units in Serbia. The tax policy is precisely determined in the application of the 10% stimulating tax rates and stimulates development through tax credits and tax exemptions. The stability of the taxation system is achieved in terms of the long-term long-term nature of the underlying items and solutions, thus ensuring the legal certainty of investment investors, especially those abroad. The proposal also aligns the rules with the European Union's solutions and instructions in this area. Clearly, ways to cover losses on profits in future accounting periods are clearly specified. There's a possibility of a group, so-called. consolidated taxation where we have more business units and parent companies. The system of removing double taxation is further upgraded, especially among those achieved in other countries. Taxes and accounting systems shall be coordinated. It is introduced that the expenditure balance shows to account for the amount of severance and fines paid to employees on the basis of termination of employment or retirement. The percentage of the non-taxable work that is set aside for advertising and propaganda is increasing and the percentage for the needs of the team is increasing. Costs shall be recognised for the required long-term reserves for the guarantees issued and other guarantees arising from business, i.e. at the level of the amounts used for the reservation. It provides the possibility that the tax period may differ from the calendar year. In the proposal to amend and supplement the Law and termnological corrections, so as to introduce instead of the company the name of the concept that is broader - a company of business, and instead of accounting, a term is introduced - accounting and audit. Financial discipline is being introduced in the work, at least that's how I see it, reducing the transfer period of capital loss at the expense of future capital gains, from ten to five years. It shall be prescribed to submit a tax application in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of the economic operator. Very stimulating exemptions are provided for investment in fixed-term fixed-term assets and employees, especially over 100 workers, from the labour market, but also concrete measures if business investments are immobilised or the number of workers is reduced. I think this law is in the direction of harmonisation, simplification, and therefore the SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day and this law will support it. The adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax is aimed at realising the economic and social policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal stimulates the development of the capital market by reducing the tax rate by taxing capital revenues from 20% to 10%, reducing the rate of capital gains from 20% to 10%, and reducing the income tax on persons from 20% to 10%. Also, the level of the non-taxable amount for all natural persons who are bonds of the annual income tax of citizens is equal to that for all domestic persons and foreigners. The main intensities of the promoters are to achieve a wider tax coverage of natural persons whose income is taxed by annual income tax on citizens with tax coverage of natural persons who are value-added taxpayers as entrepreneurs. The introduction of a single non-taxable amount for all taxpayers of the annual income tax creates conditions for equal tax treatment for all citizens. Also, the system of accounting for the annual income tax is simplified. The principle remains that one who has more must pay a higher rate of income tax, with a rate of 10% is taxed the income of citizens whose income is sixfold higher than the average profit, with a rate of 15% the income of citizens whose income is over six times the average annual earnings. It is important that the provisions of the law allow tax exemption to be granted to persons who are not in a regular working relationship, i.e. persons who carry out occasional and temporary jobs, and for receipts on the basis of compensation for travel costs by public traffic and fees for official travel carried out. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. As for the law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the granting of a guarantee for the borrowing of "Srbigas", I think it is the usual practice for the deficit to be covered this way and the Assembly should pass such a law. I think, on the basis of the offers made, the terms of this loan are quite favourable from the point of view, the price and the time of payment of that loan. As for "Serbigas", technically a good part of the 120m euros that are practically renovating loans under more favourable conditions than was agreed on by other banks. I think that's the kind of refinance move that's okay. One part is for liquid liquidity and 20 million refers to investments under conditions that are realistic in these loans. And this law will support the SPS-JS in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35785	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35786	As you have the opportunity to see, dear colleagues and respected citizens, nothing has changed – 38 points of the agenda, with united debates on proposals tabled at a time when we are discussing the Law on the National Assembly, many of them filed at the last minute, for some an emergency procedure has been lifted, but we have not had the opportunity to find out and have prepared amendments to certain laws that will not be able to enter the procedure. So everything changes to keep everything the same. It's no different with the laws we're discussing. The proposal for customs law, two amendments to the law, on the income tax of the citizens and the profits of the company, and one mandate and one guarantee -- in my opinion, they're not very compatible things. Let's say the customs law is really technical and let's forget that we took two and a half million in time... I don't know if you remember, Madam Minister, two and a half million were received as international aid in 2001, 27% of which received funds for modernising customs authorities went to consulting services, which in that post-revolutionary assembly was discussed with the same tone of almost all participants, that it was very much, that almost a third of the funds for modernising customs services and jobs were too much, but let's say that we brought the customs service to some level. This law really is technical and, I'd say, the only one that shouldn't have been intervened on. The other two laws, on corporate tax and citizen income, show all the different approaches that the SNS and the current ruling coalition have. Tax credits and reliefs continue to be promoted by the financial market and by no move and no solution is signalled that we expect employment to be our goal, and industrial production, which should bring in foreign exchanges that will enable stable foreign reserves and increasingly import dependence and improve the payment and balance situation, does not change these proposals absolutely. The reduction in rates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent is positive, but we continue to reduce the tax burden of those who earn from capital and not send them a message that capital should not serve to issue, resell and trade shares, but that the savings and money that citizens have as surpluses, these healthy surpluses, should be invested in banks that will finance production or even that citizens themselves are stimulated to invest their liquid surpluses in production. The basic messages you send to these laws speak of the unchanged course of creating an illusion that from financial transactions, I apologize for the expression, but what the people once called "trange-frange trade" can live in the long term, stable and develop the state. It's just not possible. With this, a large country with a large market from America to Europe, where, you will see for yourself when we discuss the loan of the German development bank KFW, we have a completely different picture, where a serious state, which is Germany, is placing its goods and selling its services to us, borrowing us on the terms and conditions that we are going to talk about. This government does not change course, does not invest in production, does not employ new people. On the contrary, even what was tax incentives, by abolishing Article 49, you said quite honestly yourself, we no longer have such a form of relief for employment, with an explanation that no more laws can solve the same incentives. Whenever you are given any serious and reasoned objection, you answer either by methodology or there is no such thing in the world or it is settled by other laws. Let's put it bluntly, that part of your business, as a fiscal incentive policy of production, doesn't interest you very much. The remark I'm going to make, which I'm going to focus on most, is that in your brief and content presentation, there are still some things that have not been said, and they have to be. For example, when you talk about a loan, i.e. giving a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the Bank Intect for JP "Srbigas", you say that grace is a period of 36 months (I'm adding - from paying the first war), you say that it's eight years, you say and you don't say that if, before the agreed deadline, the loan is returned by borrowing money from another bank, and by paying this one, it costs 1% of the penalty interest, i.e. the additional cost. The method of not telling the truth by keeping quiet that part of the truth that is not very convenient for voters and citizens is not a good way, and I, as an MP who had the opportunity to listen to the praises about the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, where the methodology for passing the law will now be particularly elaborated, I have a remark. How can I plead consent to a loan guarantee that I haven't had a chance to see? Or does one of the lawyers think that what he writes in his explanation as a three-month euribor, like a war that arrives three months ago, is binding or informative enough when it's published in the Official Messenger, where the explanation doesn't write? In the name of which you have thrown the important elements of the decision-making act out of the guarantee law itself, you have not made a contribution to the loan agreement under which we give the guarantee, which is irrevocable, payable, once everything has to be paid immediately, but in the explanation you are simply giving us what I have already, for example, asked in the basic text, that the credit is obtained in dinar amount although the debt is in euro. You can't tell by what course, but you can tell by reason. When they're borrowing, it's a buy-in course, when you're repaying credit, it can be a middle course now. I'd like someone to come out once with a fair and precise bill and say, a loan about this amount, that 170 million euros, if used in the intended way, with the withdrawal, as it's written here, will cost about that much and so much. No, you just put that in the budget you're going to have to provide funds to implement this law. That's not true at all. It has to stand one point, even in explanation, and follow-up -- just in case the underlying debtor, which is "Serbigas", does not settle his obligations. You question the basic meaning of the guarantee as an instrument by saying that the budget will surely have to pay back the debts that we, right here, guarantee in the event of the refinance of the Serbians. These remarks of mine are no unfounded doubt at all. I'll remind you that we've had a recent even scheduled traffic committee, when a question has been asked about the accepted guarantee on the credit card for the Probation, and the problem has arisen when Gazela stopped being usable for traffic and when it's a dispute over whether the migration of the Roma, which was a condition for the realization of that part of the project, on the part of the mayor who says -- no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Personally, as an MP, I felt hurt. Not injured in the sense -- now it's my impression, I'm being prevented from getting to know the elements of a contract that didn't set such a condition, that it would then be a condition without which it's impossible to withdraw money from international creditors. Why? Because in addition to that, you didn't deliver the guarantee law to us. What did it say in one part, to which one can now be called? The fact that I, as a Parliament, did not vote for it as a member of the SNS and the opposition, we still agreed to it. In that guarantee agreement, "Belgrade highway and bypass", in Article 2 - guarantees and other obligations, in section 2.3.d), it said - "guarantee will take over", which is us, the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. all citizens of Serbia who are paying money into the budget, "all necessary activities to implement the project according to the variable", listen now -- "organic and social regulations and standards that are occasionally in place". Look, they're occasionally in effect, but we have to guarantee them. And it is said that the project is in this kind of obligation for us that we, even if we are in the European Union (whose member we are not yet, so we have no privileges, but we have no obligation) there are no legal regulations that oblige us to do so, we are obliged to do what is set out in the relevant guidelines for the protection of the environment, the World Bank group and the protection policies. Serbian citizens, this is a Serbian language, which translates into that the relocation of Roma and reconstruction of Gazela's works depended on the international funds that are like this, the Vuk -- crazed and blurred here in front of MPs, and when the problem arises, regardless of how anyone votes, gets stuck or is banned from passing through Gazela. And who's responsible for that? We, superficial or ignorant MPs, or you who delivered this material continue to deliver such material to us? How was that defined? So, if there is no regulation in the EU, counterpart Djurisic, the World Bank Group of the International Financial Corporation may have rules on natives, forced migration and cultural property, which is mentioned in the environment policy that the Bank is conducting. Dear citizens, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered such a guarantee for adoption, we did not know in time what we were voting on. We couldn't stop it, but at least we could say it. This kind of practice goes on in the most lifelike things. For example, I differ completely from my colleague Cedomir Jovanovic when I criticise these things. I'm interested in not one company, I'm interested in the principle on which the government cheats (without any euphemism for the word cheating) all of us, the most important things that mean improving life and our standard of living. Whether you want it or not, the standard of living is measured by what is paid and what can be bought for it. It's called going to work with a closed bridge or not. You're cheating on us when you tell us that it doesn't depend on things that are, in fact, hidden in such papers. The People's Bank also applies that practice. I don't know if anyone else, seems to have ended up like me, so he had the opportunity to read the report of the National Bank of Serbia, which was delivered to us by the National Bank Council on 18 February 2010, where I was delighted with one of the councils, which took place on 15 June 2009, at the 35th regular session of the Council, where the representatives of political parties who are, in fact, in a coalition of government members, have their own ministers. Just before the session, everything writes nicely, stands the agenda with the record, not to talk about what the losses of the National Bank are, what is monetary policy, what is already happening with the course, what is going to mean for all those who have already taken loans, but the Council is dealing with the formulation of how what it calls its profits, and it cannot document that it is profit, presented to the public, so it calls it unrealised gains. At Mr. Milojko Arsic's advice, I'll read you a piece of the text, it's said -- if they ask us why we didn't make these unrealised revenues by selling our own foreign exchange reserves and depositing in the budget, we'll have this formulation. Now I'm going to read it to you, it's going to be as clumsy and blurry as this guarantee of eviction of the Roma. The National Bank claims it's a success, but it's the only thing it can document to us with its reports and our standard of living, the credit war. For reasons unknown to me, and I trust other citizens, the political parties that have delegated their representatives there show successful members of the Council, monetary policy and the governor himself, as well as the good National Bank Act, and everything that is ugly falls on the government's burden, which, as a result of the deficit, takes a new 160m-euro loan. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, as finance minister, have income in the National Bank, which is not controversial here, is shown in this report from the Council, but somehow cannot materialize it. So they don't have this alchemist strength, skill and knowledge that will make their failed and bad moves, all of which we all suffer, to valorize you as income. Mr. Dejan Šoštic advises this - we will write the following formula (page 38 of the report that I received as an MP does not have a national secret mark, I read a public document) – as such, unrealised revenues represent an unequivocal increase in the dinar display of the value of the property of the National Bank of Serbia at current market prices. What does this sentence mean to whom? Mr. Milojko Arsic agrees and says -- this is an answer to a possible question why the National Bank of Serbia would not sell part of its own foreign reserves and turn unrealised gains into realised and into a budget. The National Bank is successful, a debt budget, in one state where independence can be identified by all, where members of the Council identify themselves with the interest of the group in which they were found, the Council where they have their own incomes and privileges, and therefore all, regardless of which party they belong, are on the same page, on the best form of how to cover up the failed policy of the National Bank. Such unity on the best formulations of the law that this people need to bring to development we don't have in this home, in which laws are adopted, and that's where it's supposed to be. Because the different interests of political parties are not the different interests of citizens who should live in a country where prices are stable, but the largest number of citizens have a job and has a certain loan that will not grow as it grows, and we know perfectly, Mrs Diana, and you and I, that this is the result of premature and inadequate monetary policy that has created extra money, and then pulled it out in the most expensive way possible, creating losses. You lit a fire to put it out. We have a national currency that we don't run, and today we remembered to talk about being our own little foreign exchange reserves, which we talked about in 2008. Out of the total amount of foreign reserves, of 11.4 billion, all two were our country's foreign reserves. I can't fool citizens like this, and you can't go out with laws like this. (President: Time. I'm running out of time, and that's why I have to cut back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35787	The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35788	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as in earlier cases when the draft of a law was the Ministry of Finance, and now we meet with a complete time-consistency of the proposed laws. The proposal for a budget bill for the previous two years speaks of the fact that the Ministry of Finance obviously has a problem with the calendar, which is more likely to have a problem with competence and responsibility towards this home. In 2008, the budget was more than a month late. In 2009, the delay was reduced to 20 days, but regardless, it was a severe violation of budget procedures and constant pressure on MPs, not only the opposition, but also positions, to bring hasty and unprepared laws, with untested consequences on Serbia's economy, on Serbian citizens and even on the budget itself. We can add two new examples to this manner of lateness in proposing and adopting the law. These are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act. These are the two most significant laws, it could even say two key laws for each country's budget in view of the revenues made on that basis, and it is completely illogical that only today they are on the Assembly's agenda and will be adopted at the end of March, although the financial and business years have long begun. I would remind you that budget revenues under these two laws account for over 15% of total budget revenues. What is even more dangerous in these two laws, especially in the Company Tax Act, is that there is no tax incentive, tax incentives for businessmen and investors, even on the contrary, these changes make it difficult for investors to raise the amount of money they need to invest in order to achieve certain tax incentives and incentives, which is inadmissible, especially in the context of the global economic crisis. Since today on the agenda, in this united debate, there is a new customs law, I would remind you of the fact that we DSS MPs warned you, when you decided on a unilateral application of the SAA, that this will significantly reduce the inflow of funds from customs into Serbia's budget and reduce the competitiveness of the Serbian economy, especially agriculture, because our companies are not ready for the competition and fierce competition with companies from EU countries. That's when you said the SAA opened the door of the European Union, that companies from Europe would rush into Serbia to invest here, to produce and export their products to Europe. Unfortunately, it was nothing. But, well, we're still waiting for them, as we patiently wait for you to fulfill at least one of your pre-election promises. Instead of the revenues from customs in 2009 being about 70 billion, as they were in 2008, they burned to 40 billion, exactly as we said it would be, or that the unilateral application of the SAA on an annual basis cost us more than 200m euros. You are now proposing a new customs law. I'm afraid whether a real analysis or a flat-rate analysis has been carried out, as you've done so far in the media preparation for lawmaking, whether you've done a projection of the future inflows of customs, whether they're smaller or larger, who's going to pay customs. I have the impression that more than half of the laws adopted here in the Assembly are being passed because someone said they should be passed, not to bring some good to the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian economy. The measure to preserve the domestic economy and raise its competitiveness is measured by the amount of tax on the profits of the company. We have warned you and we say that the situation is extremely difficult, that over 70,000 enterprises in Serbia are facing bankruptcy, that incomes are significantly reduced and that we are expected to have an extremely difficult, perhaps even difficult year for the Serbian economy. In 2008, Serbia's economy registered a loss of 37 billion dinars, unlike 2006 and 2007, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when business activity was positive. What affects the most about the losses of the Serbian economy is certainly the cost of funding, interest and exchange rates. These days it is quite clear that you are unable to control your operating conditions, given that the euro has been falling for days, or months, that interest has been extremely high and that it has never been more difficult to obtain credit. Such drastic exchange rates will drive many businesses in Serbia, and even those who did business positively, to lose without talking about citizens of Serbia who have loans to the euro. Credits to citizens grow from day to day due to exchange rates, and salaries and pensions are frozen. I would remind you that during the term of office of the previous government, the euro rate was 75 dinars, today over 100 dinars. Today, no one seriously in Serbia expects you to make some radical shifts in terms of the country's economic recovery, but at least try to stabilise the course and thus do a lot for Serbia's economy, as well as for the citizens of Serbia. When you adopted the 2009 budget, you assured us that the economic crisis is a developmental opportunity for Serbia, that companies from around the world will change their headquarters, come to Serbia to invest and produce, and then you have projected income from corporate tax at 44 billion. We then warned you that this projection was unrealistic, that it would not come true, and you were declaring us Defetitists, people who spread panic, and assured us that it was real because you took measures to preserve the economy. What measures you have taken is seen in this year's planned income from the company's profit tax 22 billion, or twice as much as for 2009. I wonder if it's that used developmental opportunity and whether the policy you've been leading has yielded results. She gave, but unfortunately, a disaster for Serbia's economy. During the economic crisis, almost all countries resorted to correcting their tax policies in order to relieve the economy and citizens. The aim of these measures is certainly to launch investments at all levels, in order to retain economic activity. The tax system must therefore be based on the expansion of the number of taxpayers, and on the reduction of tax rates, as well as on tax incentives for all whose activity leads to the creation of new jobs and those affected by the negative effects of the economic crisis, and combating its consequences by maintaining employment, export and any other business activity. What is your economic policy when you lift tax credits for employers who create new jobs? You just explained that it was regulated by some other laws. I don't see what's controversial about this being in this law, considering this is the Company's profit tax law. Also, you have proposed these amendments to the law to remove incentives to invest in environmental protection. That's completely illogical. All countries stimulate investment in the so-called Green technologies, specific funds for these purposes are set up, there is an obligation in EU energy directives to invest in renewable energy sources, and we are removing incentives for investment in environmental protection. That's certainly counterproductive. The most illogical part of this law, which you have explained as a harmonisation of the amount, is that you are proposing an increase in the amount that the investor is obliged to invest to take advantage of certain tax incentives. I would remind you that even before the economic crisis, the investment cycle in Serbia entered the decline phase, and that the beginning of the crisis was almost completely halted. This is witnessed by the fact in the 2009 bank report, that out of 950m euros, only two and a half percent were used for new investments, and all other funds were used to preserve liquidity. In 2009, foreign direct investment was three times less than in 2007, so that you suggested that the amount of funds that the investor should invest in certain economic activity is increased from 600 to 800 million, least said, unacceptable. We have submitted an amendment to this article of the Law and suggested that this amount be reduced to 400 million, because we believe that whoever invests 400 million dinars and hires a hundred new workers should enjoy maximum tax incentives. What is totally unacceptable, I will give myself the right to say and scandalous, is that you have proposed these amendments to the Law to increase the amount of funds an investor should invest in underdeveloped areas. Your mouth is full of stories about equal regional development, about inequality in the development of certain regions, especially municipalities, and this law suggests increasing the amount that investors should invest to use certain tax incentives. I would remind you that the differences in Serbia are so drastic that the average personal income is ranging from 14 to 57,000 dinars, that in the price of land there are 300 times as much as that of Serbia, which is part of it, that in Belgrade, 4.2% of citizens are considered poor, and in Southeast Serbia as much as 23.5%, and in conditions of unequal development and social differences, you propose this amendment to the Company Tax Act. My colleague Lapcevic will talk more about problems in southern Serbia, and I will look back to where I come from. It is the Zlatibor District, that is, western Serbia. I just want to ask you if you know how to live in Priboj, Novi Varosha, Prepolje, Sjenica, how many companies there don't work, how many people don't have jobs and are on the verge of existence. Now you're making it difficult for investors who could possibly invest there, raise their investment heights so they can use tax incentives. (The minister laughed last time, so it turns out I was right. ) What is important, we in western Serbia have not developed a traffic infrastructure, which is also important for economic development and investment. In the past two years, 80% of investments in Serbia are within a 50km radius of Belgrade. So we don't even have a freeway, whose concession you annuled when you came to power. Since then, you've promised to start construction of the highway, and this year's budget plans are to build two or three kilometers of that road, so I guess by that dynamic we'll be able to build the highway in the next 50 years. The only thing left is tax incentives to stimulate someone to invest in these less developed municipalities, and you suggest this law makes these conditions difficult for investors. We have submitted a large number of amendments to these laws. I urge you to consider these amendments, to accept them, to correct the text of the law, or to withdraw these laws and make some better, which will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35789	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS feels that we can agree with the government's conclusion that customs law, in its essence, is a technical law. But just because he's a technical law doesn't mean he doesn't open up any important political issues, which I think somehow the answer is avoided. I think that was the reason you went through him like that. In some ways, issues of political nature have been opened here before. True, for the SRS she should have a completely different direction. Using as much time as we have, I will try to open them and possibly ask Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic to answer. But what about this law, first of all, needs to be commented, is the fact that it's been in the process since March of last year. Imagine, in March 2009, it was asked to be adopted by emergency procedure, and we discuss it a year later. Why do we insist on this? We agree, and no one will question changes in the customs area when it comes to transit, when it comes to risk analysis, improving customs procedures, bringing to some reasonable measures the authority of customs officials, strengthening and ex post customs controls, human resource affirmation in customs. But the question arises whether this law, given that it was written a year ago, will include something that happened in the meantime. It happened in this country, and you've been defrosted from that transitional agreement. Will some definitions be solved in an adequate way? It is concluded that we will be working very quickly or changing and supplementing this law or, eventually, we will adopt some new law. All of this, like you, Mrs Dragutinovic, had just said, as far as the technical character of this law is concerned, to correct itself. We're interested in some things that are of a political nature, and they open up in this law, and we'd like to get an answer. I would remind you that Article 2 of Section 1 states that the aim of this law is to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3 of this law defines the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia. As far as we could read and then hear from you, this law is in line with European directives, with European customs practices, or with recommendations from the World Trade Organisation. I am trying to say that this law, however apolitically it may look, can also raise the question of the inability to align the official policy of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to territorial integrity, with some of the standards imposed by the World Trade Organisation, or the European Union. You say in Article 3 that in some way, the customs territory of the Republic of Serbia will be protected in accordance with the standards imposed by the WTO, and the WTO has received so-called ". the state of Kosovo. On the other hand, the European Commission is sending you a very clear message, you know what kind of nature – border control with Kosovo is weak, i.e. showing weaknesses. We are now interested in how the provisions of this law, with which we are fully agreed, will be applied to the part of the territory, and the obstruction of the application of this law on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia will now inspire both the WTO and the EU and their standards with which you are harmonising customs legislation in the Republic of Serbia. I think we could get that answer and answer whether this law will cover that diagonal accumulation of origin or we'll have to deal with it again through some new amendments and additions to the law in some close time. We'd also like to resent, you know, we were here a few days ago discussing the Law on the National Assembly and the SRS insisted that it would essentially remain the same. Here, today you have again, someone mentioned it earlier, uniting the dots within the agenda. What is a mistake and perhaps you should have done is this convention on temporary imports, which has arrived in the congregation procedure and is not on the agenda. It seems to me that we could also deal with it and that, along with this new customs law, you would adopt it. As for the other two points of the agenda, amending and supplementing the law on the income tax of citizens and on the profit of businesses, the fact is that subsidies and tax incentives should indeed be in the function of creating a positive business environment. Today in the world, it's not just competition on the market. You know, we're not the only ones who are smart. Many countries have created competition in creating this very positive business environment. In that sense, I will remind you that although we are declaring ourselves a leader in the region, the country whose business environment is on that scale is below that in both Albania and Macedonia. It seems to us that the state has to be much more serious about solving things in order to change and improve its position in that sense, and that what is proposed through these laws, by its essence, is what you're kind of saying, just cosmetics. It is nice to create some positive environments at the start to make investors interested, but it is essential to create such an ambience so that through adequate business activity, Serbia can extract benefits not only through these two taxes, but through all other privileges that remain for those doing business. Of course, we live in a country where your services have found that in the last few years 85 billion dinars of value added tax have been hidden. Who knows how many people are processed for this and how many have received adequate penalties, if I may say so, or called to account in an adequate manner. Today we are dealing with changes and additions to laws relating to direct taxation, and these are taxes that participate in tax revenues with only 14 or 15 percent. One is 3.3%, and that is unfortunately the corporate tax and, of course, the income tax of citizens with only 11 points is a bit of a percentage. These are taxes that depend exclusively on the activities and number of employees, i.e. employment policies and creating space and opportunities for people to work and live on their work. How much one can take these cosmetic changes seriously now, it also says that the state does not have the mechanisms to force 20 people in Serbia to settle salaries they haven't paid for years, taxes, contribute to health and social security, etc. And now we think we're going to do something about these changes and it's going to improve our business environment. When the technical character of these alignments is at stake, we can't blame you very much. It is not disputed that you have aligned the law with the Accounting and Audit Act, but the European Commission, which assesses how you work, again says that the law is not good enough. But the changes you're predicting here can't be challenged and questioned entirely. There's something that's controversial for us, and I'm going to touch it through my story and the time that I've been given, but basically, what's technically the character of the law, there, objectively, isn't much to blame. The SRS believes it is not bad to modernise the rules in the field of taxation. But now, look out, your message again by the government. You in the government agree and adopt a recommendation on a comprehensive reform of the rules, the ministers vote on it, and then the decision and the recommendation will not be implemented. Imagine the absurd. I will not enter into the nature and essence of these regulation reforms at all, but if the government commits itself through a recommendation to implement it, what is the problem then? We are talking today about amendments and amendments to the law that will provide, in a way, subsidies, tax relief, but the government has no intention of putting into office the Commission for State Aid Control. And as problems had by the State Auditing Institution, now that commission has a problem working. This is even about the other two points of the agenda. Today, we need to make a statement about taxes, which we are going to add to the state. It's not a question of whether the loans are taken at a good price, but of what these loans will essentially be 'charged'. Due to the fact that you are not working by the State Aid Control Commission, you have 50m euros at your disposal in the EU that you cannot withdraw. These are the absurdities that we want to point out and who, in the SRS' opinion, derail each of your perhaps positive efforts to do something about it. What we've missed, what we haven't seen through the amendment, we haven't seen or done, is to react to that Article 36, where you've changed your attitude and said you'll appeal to regulations on regional development when it comes to tax relief for businesses. A few months ago, we passed the Regional Development Act. When the SRS tried to point out what Pandora's box in the political sense opened that law, they laughed at us here. Imagine the absurd, again absurd, people who voted for the law, convinced us that it is in line with European standards -- statistical regions, economic regions -- today they openly send messages that Serbia does not need such regions, that Serbia needs political regions, unfortunately -- national regions. I want to tell you what institutes through the law will be entrusted to some people who today, unfortunately, define our political and every other kind of life. It will open up the possibility of abuse. Why would someone, because of the political position they have, be able to create space for themselves to use the benefits, or subsidies that the state wants, let's say, to enable those who are interested to invest? Mrs Dragutinovic, I come from southern Serbia, from the Pcinj County. I will only remind you that (this is your data) in 2008 are in the budget of the grant on the net investment of funds based on undeveloped areas – zero. Look at the budget you gave us and adopted for 2010, it says there. So, the subsidies in 2008 are zero, for 2009, we're not... , but I think it can be more negative because in 2009 it was worse in business than in 2008. You can imagine what the data is like here. When I touched that, do you know what we're interested in when it comes to these laws? Each subsidy and tax relief foresees, in essence, a certain denunciation. When you designed the 2010 budget, you said in one place that you had taken into account the fact that you would increase the tax base by amending and supplementing the law. I am now interested in whether in the projection of the budget you only took the fact that you will increase the tax base or the fact that you will bring tax rates down through these amendments and additions to the law and how this will reflect the 2010 budget. You can boast that the law is in line with EU directives. Tax on company profits is defined, you said nice a moment ago - capital gain, capital loss, it's good that you're ousting double taxation, predicting such a possibility etc. You see now, in law you are developing tax treatment of legal persons in bankruptcy of liquidation. And now we are harmonising it with EU legislation, where the average implementation of the bankruptcy procedure is only 12 months. In Serbia, the average is three years, and for the bankruptcy that ends. And what experience we have with bankruptcy, privatisation, and everything else that's connected in a direct or indirect way, you know that much better than we do here. So, some tax treatment you can raise to the level of perfection, but the ambience in which you have to apply it is devastating and the fact is that the question is whether and whether positive changes and additions of the law, if there are, will find a place to apply in practice, or in our economic reality. What we're asking as a question may not be so problematic, but, well, we've tried our amendment to intervene. You know, it's March now, and we're adopting a law that will apply from January 1st. That is what the law says - will apply from 1 January 2010. It's not even a dispute, since you'll be collecting taxes at the end of the year, but you've also given yourself the right to bring sublaws within 12 months. It may happen by chance that some sublegal act, which should regulate some of the things you're predicting here, should be brought in March 2011 (let's not be in March, let's be in February), which will eventually dissipate your efforts to put this into function and apply. That's why the amendment suggested that it be 180 days. We think it's rational and it's not something you objectively can't accept. Here, I'll just do a little more comment on this citizen's income. You know, it's nice that you're taking down tax rates, but the capital market, unfortunately, in Serbia at a very low level, and this country or government in the last ten years has done nothing to change that. In this country, the most serious, securities of value, unfortunately, are trading banks. Instead of stimulating, together with the state, along with state guarantees, the economy, our real export sector, which gives us a guarantee that all credit obligations you withdraw and repay are trading securities of value, because it's more worth it to them than to pay the loans, because of the favourable interest the bank gives. Let's not ask questions, we don't have time, let's say, what is and what is the relationship... Here, look at the banal thing, what is the relationship and how much is raised awareness of Serbian citizens about private pension funds, that third pillar of the pension system. And that's kind of something about the capital markets. So these are some cosmetic things that the essential effects really won't bring. At the very end, I would have touched these two loans. You just explained all aspects of the contract, interest rate, etc. Public procurement, tender, the best bidders selected... Yeah, we're not gonna argue with that, but we're contesting the essence of what these loans are going to be spent on. We can accept the state's ambition to be in charge and we can all go back together, but the money that's being withdrawn goes into the real sector, to stimulate our exports, so this country can start breathing. Our exports must be participating in GDP with almost 60%. Today it's only 20%. We're giving a guarantee to JP "Serbiagas." It's no problem for us to give them credit and money, a guarantee, but we know what money is spent on. Among other things, it bothers us that this money will cover the company's costs in the Vrbas elections, in the Odzac elections, because there have been more vehicles of the public enterprise, founded by the Republic of Serbia than any other political parties involved in the elections. These are absurdities, which we truly believe the Government of the Republic of Serbia no longer has the strength or will or commitment to get rid of them or to change its inclinations and manners. So we think that this will essentially not bring, in economic terms, anything new, nothing better and nothing different than what we've had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35791	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35792	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have listened carefully to the minister and whoever observes the transfer thinks that Serbia will live better than today, when some relief is brought and reduced some of the duties where they are almost and are not there and where they will not have much influence and touch the citizens of Serbia. In this era of electricity collection, which has increased 10% these days, and another collection is expected, gas collection has also been announced, which will hit each Serbian citizen fat in the pocket, and the collection of a number of products after the electricity collection is announced, we will be in a very difficult situation. This cosmetics should say that the government is doing something, so it is reducing something, and it is reducing something that we, as citizens of Serbia, will not benefit from. It's all pure cosmetics to create an illusion that something will be better. It will be very difficult in Serbia. Here, since yesterday, after the power collection, it's going to be extremely difficult. Not to mention the village, the peasants. You saw today, the price of live vaginal meat is 80-90 dinars. Four years ago there were 140 dinars, two years ago 130 dinars, and now it's 80-90 dinars. Meanwhile, oil has collected 36 dinars per litre. We heard this morning, meat processing producers, because of the new taxes they received, will not cut their prices and what will come to the citizen will simply, as far as dry meat products are concerned, at the same level. How is the village going to survive after all this, when the current collects, when the oil was collected in 2009 by 36 dinars, when it all came together, repromaterials and concentrates, and the price of corn and wheat has been the lowest in the last few years? These are all the absurdities that you, Madam Minister, have failed to resolve and which will significantly make life worse in Serbia. Especially, here, you saw, collect dry meat products or stay at the same price. Milk is more expensive, and the purchase price of milk from 34 dinars today has been brought to 15 dinars. Please explain to me the technique of the village to survive and in what way, after all this is about to happen. It's true we're talking about customs, but it's true, too, that customs are the biggest problems, that someone once raised the issue of the Customs Mafia, and it's quickly covered up, it didn't come to an end, it didn't move anywhere from that part. It is true that thousands of tonnes of meat from Argentina, Brazil, are being introduced into Serbia through Kosovo from many countries. The Serbian people, Serbian citizens, eat meat of extremely poor quality, reflecting on the increase in carcinogenic diseases, leukemia, etc. And no one's gonna close those plugs. It's all very organized. I have repeatedly reacted in this parliament and said the absurd situation in the Medvedje municipality is that in local elections Albanians come by bus and vote for candidate Draskovic, who is now mayor there. He is to them a valve for that passage, and they vote in public for it. I was there, and I asked for it to stop, because something was wrong. However, many who were downstairs taking care of southern Serbia supported it and said it was good co-operation. It is good co-operation, but look where we've brought individual producers in Serbia and what they're in right now. Gas-gathering is announced. They say you don't pay for gas. They don't pay for Belgrade power plants, and citizens pay for it. What's the problem? Why isn't it paid? And now you're looking for a pick-up. And how do you survive in Serbia if the salaries are frozen, if pensions are frozen, if the drugs collect drastically, if many of the basic products, which are necessary for life, communals...? It's all about the collection phase, either it's gonna be or it's gonna be. So, Serbia comes in an extremely difficult position. Here, just keep an eye on this pig meat thing, so I don't talk about other products, which I'm sure you should talk about. In this united debate, you're mixing customs and loans again and you're putting everything on the pile, so that a man simply doesn't know in this mess how to handle himself and what to talk about. Credit - where does 160m euros go? Here it is, as far as I can see, commercial loans, at commercial banks, and are primarily going to Vojvodina. Another deal to keep the government going, to extend power, etc. What's being credited at this point? Madam Minister, during your term of office, a concession was stopped to build a highway through Serbia, which was a major investment and was meant to produce huge employment. Now, under your patronage, credit borrowing is being done to make highways, so that those who have braked the concession will be charged, and Serbia as a whole should, as a state, be in charge of credit lines and allow some to charge. To those who spoke, we don't give our money. Now it's going to be -- you're going to give us a loan, you're going to finish us off, and then we're going to be able to charge, and you can't use it, because now it's our money, our payment. You tolerate it all. Is it normal for you, as finance minister, to approve that almost all credit lines that Serbia now has go into infrastructure, corridors and these large capital facilities, which could have been a concession to work, not to go into business, to encourage exports, to encourage real budget filling, to encourage the employment of citizens? That's what you, as finance minister, had to do. Every normal state in Europe today, in the world, uses concessions to build large buildings such as corridors, especially corridors and highways, and how much Serbia's creditworthiness is, of course, injected into the economy, new employment, into export incentives. How much is Serbia's exports today, what can Serbia export today (so customs is very important here)? Nothing. You're very easy, as finance minister, to deny this country's income, which is extremely important to the state. You give up the natural resources this country has and you give them to tycoons. I'd like to see if you've vetoed, you, as finance minister, on Oliver Dulic's project to allow the optical cable in the road corridor 10 to go free, without a tender, and to be awarded to one of the largest Slovenian mobsters, and with it is a participant in that company's brother Oliver Dulic. Is it possible for someone without a tender to get a job with a company with 3,000 euros in account, founded in Serbia, no director, no manager, nothing? It's called Nuba Invest. Is that possible anywhere in the world? Is it possible, Madam Minister, that your health minister will pay for the sanctions in a company that's been blocked for five years? Is it possible that he's gonna pay off Sanitary vehicles to a company that no longer exists in the register? It's been canceled. It is out of bankruptcy, and owes five-and-a-half million euros to the state money that has been paid. Do you know that Tomica Milosavljevic paid a million euros to a company that doesn't exist? She's nowhere to be found. I can give you all the information. Did you, as finance minister, do something and will you do it? Will Tomica Milosavljevic receive criminal charges? Will this parliament replace Oliver Dulic for misusing his official position, which in two or three days made a building permit to the company that performs the works, which he himself went to public enterprises and ordered to give positive opinions and get positive opinions? How long is the construction permit waiting in Serbia? Did the government agree that the job would be awarded without a tender? Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of infrastructure, said here in parliament that he heard of it for the first time. How can the Secretary of Resorship not know that ten works are under way on Corridor? Do you know that this investment, just from the Croatian border to Belgrade, costs 25m euros and is worth nine months, per project, and will bring annual income, only one piece, 45m euros? Do you easily throw 45m euros and where will the 45m euros go? And we'll just be in charge, in debt and in debt. Madam Minister, it's also someone, and it's known who signed Soroš to enter here with cable television, to use the infrastructure and sewerage of Telecom, and to enter every home, in every city, with optical cables. Now he will come to Serbia and pass with his optical cables. And then what are we in telecommunications? Zero. What's ours? Nothing. It's the biggest natural resource, telecommunications. We gave it all away for nothing. And do you know who the chairman of the board of directors was when it was signed, do you know who the Minister of Telecommunications was? Serbian President Mr. Tadic. Do you know all this and do all this go past you and now has any power to stop this on Corridor 10, to tell Oliver Dulic - sir, you have to answer for this? You've been chasing over some cars for two and a half million euros for five years. You're conducting investigations, what you're not doing, and you're throwing millions of euros out the window. And no one's thinking of stopping it and no one's thinking about it. So, please, as finance minister, stop it, veto that investment and take it completely and stop it. Do you know that the founder of the "Zagrebačka Banka" "Yugobanka" from Serbia, that the founding role of "Yugobanka" was 2,200,000 euros? Do you know that the deputy attorney general signed a solution when the bank went into privatisation, that Serbia is not interested in the funds? Do you know that these funds have been repossessed into private, encrypted accounts? Whose accounts? Madam Minister, I'll give you complete documentation. I'll be glad. I've asked that question repeatedly to your predecessor, who hasn't answered me. Is it true that it all ended that way and that no one answered and no one knew? No one knows. You know maybe, and maybe you don't know (I was the head of the Cypriot money team) that we found that money and brought all the papers here and these papers were handed over to the late prime minister and to Mladjan Dinkic. He went to Cyprus, the team was disbanded, and it was said - it is no longer discussed. And it doesn't have anything to do with it. He made a deal, he made a deal, everything's settled and there's nothing left. From the team I was on, only Mr. Kole, who worked at the National Bank, got fired, was replaced because he was not cooperative at the National Bank, and a representative of the MUP, Spasic, became the director of UBPOK. The late Borka Vukic had all these papers, and she came to me several times with that paperwork. And that's all that's left. Do we, as drunk billionaires, easily throw away – 2.2 billion, there three billion, this thing with Dulic billion, with cable television billions, and then run to take loans? Maybe we're taking loans from our people that are encrypted, so they're renting us their money. It's not off, is it? People found a placement, easily loaned, placed, etc. Please, as finance minister, answer these questions and prepare a written answer. This is what I'm very interested in. I've put this on government multiple times, and I can get you complete documentation on all of this. Can the institutions of this state, the primary parliament, be respected in Serbia? Can the governor come here sometime to file a report? Don't think we want that cosmetics. You think you've done a great job of playing our anthem this morning and ordering our guard? We're not little kids. We want in Serbia to live better, to invest, to be employed, to work and to earn, to earn a pig farmer, to earn a milk producer, to earn those who go to work in businesses, not just cosmetics. Here, the only thing that happened this year, last year, was to order our guards, to see us like this morning, and to hear an anthem. And that's what we're talking about, it's a hit of the day. And what Dulic does there to get through the corridor optic cable is of no interest to anyone in particular. Will you give any inspection to look into it and check it out? Will the D.A. take certain actions? Is the team running public procurement going to file criminal charges for non-tendering this deal? He won't. A lot of things have been covered up like this. Last time I asked who built a cardiovascular clinic here in Belgrade. Who owns it? How is it possible to say on TV when you open -- the owner wants to remain anonymous? Is it true that in Roosevelt Street, the clinic is built by the mayor of Belgrade? If it's not true, let him deny me, and I say it's true. Who bought Blink, the famous atomic spa? Who bought the Sokobanja? Did Djelic buy Sokobanja through a Dutch firm? I've asked that question five times. There are many savings that this Serbia can live much better and make all of us feel better in our country, to be higher standards, to live better, which is our goal. You saw the survey the other day. What did 33% under 30 say, gentlemen of the ruling coalition? That he wants to leave Serbia. Is that Serbia's future? They've got a white Schengen. Have a good trip, young man, push, and we'll fight here with PUPS to keep power. We have our team now, and we will boast that the IMF has said that the law and regulation of pension insurance are top-notch. How do pensioners live? How are they going to accept this drug collection, electricity...? The current pulls the collection chain. Of course, in a few months, there will be another collection of electricity, gas collection, etc. I ask you, as finance minister, to deal very seriously with these affairs and these problems. Are the Ski resorts, Madam Minister, justified? Are these missed investments and what ski resorts are missing investments? Who took fees from the ski equipment for the ski resorts and now they're lying dead and rotting in all kinds of woods and everywhere? You almost built a ski resort in Jagodina. (President: Time. Everyone laughed. There is no possibility etc. Will someone be responsible for the vaccine, Madam Minister? (President: I thank you. "Will anyone be responsible for the vaccine that the children won't receive? Mr. Ilich, will you please bring the end? Finish your sentence, please. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35793	You have received, honourable MPs, the resignation of Momčil Spasic as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to the National MP Momcilo Spasic, elected from the electoral list "For European Serbia - Boris Tadic", on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS, "New Serbia", LDP, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica, "Forward, Serbia" and the SRS. I give my word to MP Djordj Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35794	Dear Madam Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of five legislative proposals in a united debate in principle. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I will put an accent on two legislative proposals in my presentation – a bill on amendments and amendments to the Company Tax Act and a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. With the adoption of the proposed two tax laws, I think we're a little late. My opinion is that they should have been delivered in a package with other fiscal instruments that monitor the adoption of the 2010 budget. In addition, certain provisions of these laws have had a retroactive fact since the beginning of this year, which can only be accepted in exceptional cases when the general interest warrants it. In particular, negative effects may have a return effect on non-residents operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia through an independent business unit, which are subsequently covered by tax treatment. Such tax policy, with frequent changes (or during the year) in tax procedures, can create, my personal view, the uncertainty for foreign investors already existing business units, and even more can affect potential employers and entrepreneurs from abroad. In addition to these findings, I could still add that since the laws were passed, it seems to me that it was in 2001, they changed almost every year, sometimes two or more times over the year. The conclusion that can be drawn, among other things, is that we have not yet created a consistent and comprehensive tax policy and that ad hoc is changing it from year to year. The amendments to these tax laws and their alignment with the provisions of other system laws may, among other things, correct and create stability of fiscal instruments, which will have positive effects on employers and the economic environment, as well as on the effects of budget revenues. As far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, I believe that it should also be supported by the SPS-JS parliamentary group in principle supports this legislative proposal, starting, above all, from the objectives that this law declares and contains. First of all, we think that it is necessary to support the equalisation of tax rates, because the colourfulness of the rate does not reflect the real effects of tax policy. Also, reducing the rate of capital tax from 20% to 10% should stimulate the capital market, which is at this point, and also in the previous period, I would say, reduced to a minimum. The incentive measure is also a halved rate based on the capital gain achieved. In particular, here we need to potentiate the stimulating measures relating to the taxation of income from the insurance of the person, which are directed in two directions. First of all, the reduction in the rate of tax on the income of a person from 20% to 10% and the new way of determining the tax base, where the costs were recognised, as far as I could understand, of the premiums paid, i.e. the accumulated assets on the basis of the shares of a member of a voluntary pension fund invested in the purchase of a company, where the tax base is determined as the difference in the amount paid by the insurance of a person and the amount of accumulated assets invested in the purchase of annuities. I also believe that there is a need to support, regardless of the resistance that will arise, and the introduction of a single non-taxable amount for all taxpayers of the annual income tax of citizens, as this creates equal tax treatment for all taxpayers on this basis, and also extends the number of taxpayers, both to domestic persons and entrepreneurs and to foreigners. The law should also be supported because of stimulating measures for farmers, who will not pay taxes on income from agriculture and forestry in the coming year. The measure is stimulating, but given the specific amount of debt, I don't think it's going to have any major financial effects. Amendments and additions to the Company Tax Act, now legal entities, are much more extensive and continue to carry out fiscal reform in order to build an incentive and, I would say, an easily applicable taxation system. The company's profit tax is a fiscal instrument that achieves the goals of a stable fiscal and economic policy, a developmental aspect of the economy, the promotion of the market and the competitive capacity of the economy. These objectives can only be achieved by a stimulating tax rate and by targeted investment-development incentives. In addition, investor legal certainty is created, especially investor inopartners, on long-term grounds that are not subject to short-term changes. To that end, it is only necessary to point out some measures and I will mention them: tax incentives for all investment in fixed assets only relating to new assets, unused funds, which stimulate the purchase of modern profitable equipment, thereby preventing the use of the tax credit for the same, or used equipment; the expansion of certain categories of expenditure in the tax balance of expenditure; the real, or market-based purchase price of fair value assets in accordance with the International Accounting Standards, contained and harmonised in the Accounting and Audit Act; and, ultimately, the uniform application of conditions for write-off of claims when they have passed the payment deadline, which they are recognised in expenditures in the tax balance. In addition to the high compliance of the provisions of this law with the solutions in the EU countries, new positive experiences of developed countries, these changes have continued to comply with tax regulations regarding the determination of taxable profits. For the first time, income and expenditure from annual financial reports and the promotion of the development of the financial market as a general economic development function are recognised in determining taxable profits. The provisions of this law also apply to branches and business units of foreign legal entities established in another country, which carry out economic activity in Serbia. The next objective is to bring existing legal norms into line with certain system laws that have been passed in the meantime. I will tax them out: Accounting and Audit Act, Business Society Act, Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, Foreign Exchange Act, Bank Act and others. The harmonisation of this tax law is in a functional relationship with the new laws, which further builds on the taxation system for legal persons. At the very end, once again, I want to make it quite clear and precise to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will in principle support all five legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35795	The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35796	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have read your corporate tax law and the corporate income tax law. Believe me, I felt so good when I read them. In these laws, which you have written, there are many beautiful and good elements – reducing tax rates on dividends, reducing capital gains taxes, cutting income taxes acquired in agriculture and forestry. The only thing you haven't considered is the environment we're in. What black dividend? Well, half of the country faked final accounts last week to show they're a positive dinar, so they could still be in debt with the banks. I don't know if you remember, I sat in this same place last year, and you also sat there, when we talked in this same room, you convinced us that the increase in dividend taxes from 10 to 16 percent last year was good for the country, and this year, when that measure expired, you convince us otherwise. Last year I told you that you were wrong, and this year I'm telling you that it doesn't matter how much the dividend tax rate is, because few businesses in Serbia are positive in 2009, and even less will be in 2010. This year, the annual income tax will be paid by all those who earn more than three average annual earnings, according to your proposal. That's wrong. You expand the number of people who pay taxes instead of taxing higher incomes on a larger scale. That would be more logical, fairer and, above all, more useful. You are constantly considering reducing capital gains to trading shares on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. Last year you reduced it to 0%, as a temporary measure, and this year you're reducing us from 20% to 10%. Please explain to me how great this group of people in Serbia will be to whom it will be better than this measure. Are there 100,000, 200,000 or 500,000? Will those unfortunate people on the Lapov track get better because they now have less tax to pay for all that capital gains when they trade stock on the market, when they're not on the track? What you're doing is like when a man has cancer, and you give him instructions to go to the hairdresser. The tax is released only by a handful of people who are currently trading on the stock market and a few foreign brokers who probably have nothing else to do, because in Europe there is a crisis, so they're still distracting us on the stock market. We have submitted several amendments, which are of a technical nature and which are based on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on the Law on Income Tax. We expect them to be accepted, because they are technical and it is about improving this law. But what needs to be changed is not just this law, but general government policy. You're going to bring the economy back to life by hiring money from the budget, not this, certainly sweet, but useless amendments to the law. With this bill, you must have gained the sympathy of a few wealthy Serbs and surely deserve to at least invite you to lunch in Shakespeare, but if this government continues like this, even those rich Serbs will have nothing to pay for the dividends you are taxing them less this year. Then they might ask you what you're doing and where you're taking this country, and we know that this government cares more about the opinions of a few rich than the opinions of millions of Serbs. In the end, he's well engaged to this law, you've done your best, he's really nice, but I'm afraid there won't be any use for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35797	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35798	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, time does not allow us to devote ourselves to all topics, so we have chosen, as a fundamental theme, this scandalous loan, which you are asking us to guarantee, for "Srbigas" from "Banka Inteza." I say scandalous because I really think so. The best evidence is, given that at this point in the agenda, two of the loans that the state is taking were combined, to compare this second loan, taken from the Erste Bank, and this loan that the guarantees are looking for is "Srbigas", so that you can see the difference. The first question for you is whether "Serbiagas" has conducted the public procurement procedure and whether this is the most favourable he could get. So, on the other hand, only the business of the Serbians should convince all of us MPs that at no cost should we give guarantees for this loan. Such a business loss is simple, I don't know if it's a record player, but apart from "The Railway of Serbia" and other losing companies, we don't know how it manages to make such losses in such a short time. Perhaps the reason lies in the fact that "Srbigas" is more or less regularly deviating from those activities that have established it as a public enterprise and are increasingly engaged in some other activities. The second question is, how much does it cost to advertise "Serbiagas" and why does "Srbigas" advertise? What's the budget item for that advertising? What is the reason for a monopolies on our market to advertise, on which televisions, how does this election come into play, and what is the aim of such advertising, is this objective fulfilled? Third question. We, of course, set him up to Mr. Skundric, but somehow not that there was no clear answer, but the answer was more than clear - silence. If we have in mind that about 8% of gas consumption in Serbia is generated from domestic sources, why does Serbia pay that gas as if it were gas from Russia, or gas from imports? Eight per cent of the value of the spent gas is about 25m euros. If we add that to the Jugorosgas commission, we'll get to 50m euros. I don't know what the costs are, but I think this loan could be significantly lower, not to say 30%, if only these two items were excluded from business or considered in the business of "Srbigas". Next question. It's about one big loan. The loan has a value of 270 and some thousand euros a day, when divided into one year. The costs of the financial transaction itself at the Inteza Bank are over 2m euros. We ask you – how many companies have taken over or acquired the share of "Srbigas" in the last year? What exactly are these companies? What exactly is the cost of this takeover? On what basis, in accordance with what objectives of business policy, on what criteria has this takeover been made? Next. Will the amount of this loan also be used to cover the losses of those related and the companies taken over by "Srbigas", what is this amount and why? Did "Srbigas" one of those credits from business banks, whose funding is now being sought, take to buy "Informatics" stock? Why is "Serbigas" planning to deal with insurance and financial transactions? We want to see on the basis of which the Serbian government's decision, as founder of JP "Srbigas", is established by the insurance company. I think of Serbia, and I also think of Bosnia, where "Serbigas", at least in the media, is a founder of a new insurance company or company that will deal with financial transactions. Is some part of this loan and how much it goes to funding and opening up this new company -- that's what we're also interested in. Did the government set up "Serbiagas" to deal with the insurance, production and sale of glass, computers, information systems, the organisation of trumpet concerts? I'll remind you of New Year's Eve, we've had our chance, unfortunately, to look at reruns several times, so it's very hard to forget that cost. If we understand correctly, the company that organizes a hundred trumpets and then pays for his broadcast on TV is now asking us to guarantee that 100m euros are owed. It's, from my point of view, just amazing. It's really amazing. What we are most interested in, in fact, is whether, as promised even when we sign an oil-gas agreement, Serbia will regain its stake in "Yugorosgas" and thus provide itself with a minimum of 20m euros a year and thus free MPs, as well as all citizens of such crazy demands in the future. Please answer these questions for me. I don't know if she's in your jurisdiction or not, but it's out of whether and in what way the funds for "Srbigas" are more important to us, if they're already looking for guarantees in this parliament for such a new borrowing, the belief that "Srbigas" is capable of returning it. You mentioned that Eurobor, one three-monthly, if I'm not mistaken, plus four-and-a-half percent per year is fixed. Yeah, but we have to keep in mind that it's a company that's operating with an incredible loss, and one of my colleagues has already asked a question -- if citizens pay for heating, and the heat owes for gas, where that money goes away. That's also one of the questions. So, either the citizens are left without heating. There's a problem. On the other hand, if this company has such a loss, and we can assume that the eurobor will grow (you will agree that today it is very low, and this is an eight-year task, if I am not mistaken), so the interest will be significantly higher, what is the plan of "Srbigas" to bring it back? Or can we expect a new guarantee from the beginning of next year for some new debt refinancing loan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35799	National MP Milan Lapcevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35800	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, has started today's session in an interesting way, by inserting a dozen new agenda points, which have been placed at the beginning. So we'll only have one day to look at them and try to write some amendment, which is not correct in parliamentary work. These five laws, which regulate the matter of corporate tax and citizen income, customs law and borrowing in business banks, are not much like that so that we can discuss them in the context of a united debate. In any case, I will refer to what is most important for Serbia at this time, and this is an amendment to the company's profit tax, i.e. legal persons, as it is now changing here. In the opening statement, you said there were a lot of improvements in this law, that the tax rate was reduced from 20% to 10% and for the insurance of deposits and for capital revenue. However, as Mr Grujic said, you will hardly have anything to tax. Because by the time it comes to profit, the state is in various ways pumping everything out of the company, so we have a situation that over 70,000 companies are in a blockade and threatening bankruptcy, which means a complete collapse of the Serbian economy. I expected to see in this law what had long been announced in the Serbian government policy through public appearances, and these are instruments for the accelerated development of underdeveloped areas in Serbia. However, in Article 41, you made it clear that those who operate in an underdeveloped area must meet several essential conditions in order to be free of profit taxes. These conditions will additionally burden those legal persons, so they will not be able to obtain a condition to be exempt from profit tax. For example, paragraph 1 states that a legal person must fulfil the condition that there are at least eight million dinars in the underlying assets. What about those legal entities that don't have eight million dinars invested in fixed assets? For example, how will a volcanicist shop achieve that possibility if it has invested less resources even though it may employ a much larger number of people or fulfil other conditions? I expected this law to make it a much more liberal approach and that everyone who operates in underdeveloped areas would have certain tax reliefs to be stimulated to work there more, earn more, of course, and therefore expand their jobs and employ more people. The biggest problem of every country in transition is certainly its economy, liquidity and economy and, accordingly, the number of unemployed people, or the standard of the population. Since Serbia is a country of many contradictions, especially economic ones, we have a situation where the largest salary in Serbia, in the capital area, is 56,000 and the smallest in the White Palanca - 14,000, which is four times less. Or, by some other parameters, let's say, as the previous speaker said, 80% of the investments that have arrived in Serbia in recent years have been realised in the area of 50km around the capital, making it clear that there is no investment in the most underdeveloped areas. Investments in the most underdeveloped areas are not for the simple reason that one who invests and any business started in this country does not have specific incentives, so they will invest where it is most profitable, or where there will be no large transport costs and where they will be able to place their products if it comes to certain production. Investments are the largest in Belgrade and the environment, and almost no one wants to invest in undeveloped parts of Serbia, because there is no infrastructure and there are no tax incentives and incentives significant to invest there. It's a simple fact, no matter how much you run your head. Because why would someone open any production in the White Palanca to produce any product, to transport it from there to the main consumer centres, to Belgrade and developed parts of Serbia, if there are the same 5,000 euros in the White Palanca as there are in Belgrade for the incentive to hire a new worker? It will work better here, because they will immediately place the product here, and the state will get exactly the same incentive and the same relief as it does in undeveloped areas. The essence of this law had to be that tax incentives, tax incentives and subsidies by the state were much higher in undeveloped areas than developed, or at least to be proportionate to the degree of development of a particular area. Therefore, profit tax should not exist for any undertaking or legal person operating in underdeveloped areas. It is known exactly, according to the methodology, that municipalities qualify as underdeveloped areas, i.e. devastated areas, and everyone working there should be fully exempt from profit tax. Because of these legal entities, which come from Vlad's Han or Kurzumlia, the state does not benefit at all, or the budget has a very symbolic benefit from it, but these municipalities would have multiple benefits if these people had a much greater profit, they would have greater tax benefits and thus spread their jobs. Of course, the state can through other laws oblige them to re-invest all that profits they have in the same area that is undeveloped, to have further tax reliefs. I don't suppose I should remind you that, for example, by statistics (which, however defined, is a set of figures that can say a lot, but doesn't always have to be exact), 1,860,000 people are employed in Serbia. For these 1,860,000 people, we have 1,600,000 pensioners and 760,000 unemployed. In total, it says that on 100 employees in Serbia, we have 126 maintenance persons -- pensioners and unemployed. These same parameters for Belgrade are like this -- we have 60 pensioners and 16 unemployed on 100 employees. So, only 76.6 supported persons on 100 employees in the capital. In Novi Sad, the relationship is somewhat less favourable - 48 pensioners and 21 unemployed persons. In Nisavski County, without the city of Nis, these figures are the following - 16,000 people are working, the pensioner has 29,000 and 16,000 people looking for a job, so the relationship is one to one. For Toplički, Jablanski and Pcinj County, these figures are catastrophic - you have 185 pensioners and 94 unemployed people per 100 employees. Then, of course, there is no wonder that every year more than 40,000 people, according to official statistics, have moved out of this area, which is being shut down to dozens of villages, which is also areas that apply as university centres, such as Nis, remain without their personnel, because there is no business, and there are no incentives in tax policy, which is the basic instrument for undeveloped areas to develop. In order for a country as asymmetrically developed as Serbia has developed and reduced and huge, especially economic differences in development, there must be a much more concrete, clear and stimulating tax policy than it is today. In Switzerland, for example, if you live in the center of a big city, you have a tax rate that's very high, but if you live 20 kilometers from the city, on the periphery, then it's twice as small, and if you live in a village 40 kilometers from Zurich, it's symbolic. Therefore, Switzerland is an evenly populated country, which has no significant economic difference between the poorest and the richest, because tax policy is slippery and respects all the parameters that contribute to the migration of the population, employment, etc. I'm not saying there hasn't been any investment in Serbia's economy in the last two years, but they are three times smaller than they were in 2007, and investments in undeveloped areas are almost symbolic. A few months ago, you had a major strike in Kursumlia, not because people were hanged there, and they had nothing to do with it, but we had a scandalous statement from the Minister of Economy who said that the state had no interest in developing certain production in that area because it was not Serbia's strategic interest. It is simply unimaginable if it is given that the state of Serbia has invested a great deal of money in the launch of production in the Zastava car factory in Kragujevac, which I have nothing against, of course, but it is impossible to use different parameters when it comes to the most underdeveloped areas, about poverty, which, by the way, is located in an area that is very dreary and which we call the administrative line with KIM. How could the state find the money and invest it in the Panchemist Petrochemy in the flag of electricity and not invest in the launch of production in the Bath in Kursumlia? It's the only company that can hire people there. If he hires them, they'll stay to live there. Otherwise, everyone will pick up what little they have and move to Belgrade. And then we'll have to build new bridges, because those who are scheduled to build, like the one between Borca and Zemun, out of the state loans that we'll all pay, will not be enough for all those who will move to Belgrade. It's a destructive policy that drags this country back. The saddest story since yesterday, where the great magon, the great Baron Don Tijanic, with his decision, shut down the first radio that had a day-long programme, the first radio station outside Belgrade, was Radio Nis, after 61 years of business, which broadcast a regional programme for the whole area. It threatens to shut down other media of regional character, and then all Serbian citizens will watch every night in which part of Belgrade broke the pipe and as if I or someone living in Vlasotinc were alive interested in whether a bus in Rakovica cut the line or not. In this way, this country can only sink deeper and deeper, and you, Madam Minister, look a little bit more at how the more serious countries have solved tax policy and how they have affected that in the underdeveloped areas of economic development, to revive some kind of activity there to keep people living there. With such a detimulative policy, we will hardly be able to preserve this little territory that we have left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35801	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. We'll continue at 15.05. The first next speaker is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. I would like to inform you, in accordance with Article 85, that we will be working today until the end of the agenda that will be at 1800 hours on the agenda, that is, this point. [[After break – 15/05]] We're continuing our work. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that a representative of the proposing, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, the finance minister is not currently in the hall. I hope that during my presentation, he will arrive. I'd like him to answer some questions, even later, when we finish this debate. Today we have tax laws on the agenda. Unfortunately, at such a time today, when we have to constantly adapt our laws to the current political and economic situation in the country. As is already known, the DS and the coalition they gathered before the elections gave up 200,000 jobs during their government, or four-year term, have also given up 1,000 euros per capita with voting rights that have the right to free shares acquired in the privatisation process, so why not also change certain laws? I don't think this government knows how to deal with any existing problems. Or he knows, and to us, the MPs and citizens of Serbia, that's not what he wants to say. I think it's something else. It's already in the draft of this law. It cannot be said by one law that it reduces tax bases, relieves taxpayers, when the tax reliefs provided for by this law are passed by this same law to the tax burdens of other taxpayers or abolishes the benefits of taxpayers that existed under the existing law. So the tax relief provided for in these laws applies only to certain participants in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia. For some others, it's a new tax burden. Let's take a look at, first of all, who we're taxing, who we're putting on a new tax burden. The first thing that surprised me was that the banks that this law would give them would be privileged. You can see that already, I mean in Article 14. It's a bill of law. According to this proposal, banks can make amends to their balances, but not on the basis of regulations by the National Bank, but in accordance with their internal acts, to the amount set by the National Bank. Now I ask the Government's representative - what did the banks do for domestic economy and citizens, to put them in such a privileged position? For the state I can understand, we keep in debt with the banks. If that's the price for the state to get a loan from certain business banks, I still can't agree that it should be given this tax advantage. When it comes to loans that go to businesses and citizens, I can say that these are the most expensive loans in the region, thanks to the arrogance and monopoly that banks have on the domestic market. The pronunciation of the banking sector is that Serbia has a high risk of credit default, and according to all official data, Serbs, both businesses and citizens, have paid the most loans in the region. So, there's something wrong here. Obviously, the state has no courage, along with the National Bank, to engage in solving this problem and to protect citizens and the economy, from which citizens and states live. The granting of subsidised loans by the State certainly cannot be on the long-term incentive plan for the economy. On the other hand, I think a change like this, where a bank can correct its balances, in a privileged way (means, loss can prove by not proving whether it tried to charge that loss to the court, but only by its internal act), opens a money laundering channel. This law was written when a certain group was not yet on international arrest warrants and warrants from Interpol. The law was written at a time when it was discovered that a bank operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was bypassing both the NBS and the domestic law governing foreign exchange payments. I'm talking about Hippo Bank. So, such a provision in the law leaves the possibility that the bank shows the loss, from the funds it has channeled to phantom firms that do not exist, to show it as a tax relief, and on the other hand, through some of the branches of that same bank, deposited funds, the right of the credit user, to use it to collect its claim. That's how money actually washes. Giving this tax advantage to the bank is enough for as much as it's been released from paying the profit tax, which is 10%. Let's be costing 5%, but whoever laundered the money this way will have the maltenes just as much as he wanted to launder legal money in the follow-up process. I have to ask the Minister why then the Tax Administration, when it comes to phantom firms like this, and then why the Money Laundering Prevention Agency, when banks, in a certain way, through tax relief, are stimulated to do this sort of thing. Article 10. The proposal is also extremely interesting. It says that an entity's assets as revenue of up to 5% can be defined in advertising and propaganda costs. Now, I'd like to ask the minister which one of these benefits. The state certainly doesn't. Who else can benefit? Public service certainly benefits, but already has a subscription, safe and stable source of income. Who else can benefit? Shareholders of media space in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially media space designated by national frequencies. And who are the largest media space tenants in the Republic of Serbia? The current mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, and adviser to the president of the Republic, Mr. Chocolate, Srdjan Shaper. They're the biggest tenants of media space. This of 0.5% for the team could possibly be applied, Madam Minister, to your fellow ministers, since they have been written misapplications for how they spent the funds provided for the team. I'd like that to apply to all the directors of public enterprises and institutions. I'd like that to apply to contractors who got jobs in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Why do I say that? Well, because all you have to do is walk around the city of Belgrade and you'll see that public workers often worship both ministers and directors of public enterprises for which the works are carried out, and even I've had a chance to see the directors of public enterprises sign a team on behalf of the contractors. That's why I wouldn't be surprised if I found it tomorrow and if some minister had signed a team for a contractor. When it comes to the real sector, this tax restriction has no real basis. It's gonna be hard for any businessman who owns a private company to make him spend his money in vain on behalf of the team. I'm surprised at article 39. Proposal for a law, i.e. Article 49 of the basic law. You have proposed to delete members of the law by which the employer would have the right to reduce his tax base, and on behalf of paid salaries and contributions for each new worker. You're canceling it because of the banks, because of Srdjan Shaper, because of Dragan Gilas. And what it looks like in the argument given by the Government regarding Article 39. A bill of law? It is said - it is proposed to delete Article 49, given the already existing very stimulating incentives that are recognised by the employer on the basis of the employment of new workers in accordance with the rules governing the taxation of citizens' incomes and contributions to compulsory social security. Madam Minister, I am asking you now – have all these incentives helped reduce the number of unemployed and increase the number of employees in the Republic of Serbia? I think that even at the time of writing this law, in November or December of last year, the number of unemployed, or the number of employees, has been constantly growing. So I can say that eradicating this member at the time of the economic crisis, when the number of unemployed is growing, when productivity decreases, the state is in charge of providing funds for PIO funds, it can only propose and write down someone who is unserious, irresponsible and unaccountable. I see you're head-to-head, but I wish those who write laws at least worked a little bit in the economy would change their attitudes. Because one employee, except you're going to kidnap the employer 10% based on his profits and contributions, gives a lot more to the state. Every new job, first, reduces pressure, at least a little bit, on funds. Two, you have a social category, to provide at least part of the income needed to support his family. Under three, your employee spends his income on a full budget as well. Under four, at least part of that money will be used for domestic products, and will also result in the creation of a new value on the market. And you canceled it because of Shaper, Gilas and the banks. One more question. Why does the state always want to use its monopoly position on the market? Or why does the state regulate the laws for all those who do business with the state, which is one small narrow circle of privileged ones, tax exemptions? This is about records of values emanating from the state, the National Bank, the unit of local self-government or the province. The capital gains tax is not paid on the basis of these records. Now I have to ask the question again – what benefit does the state have? Should the only benefit be given because it will be easier to borrow, because the government is unable to provide real sources of funding for the Republic of Serbia's budget? It's the only privilege, the only convenience. What about the citizens? What about the economy? In this way, that money that banks would be forced to direct to the economy and to citizens would be much lower interest than it is today. This is how you have a situation where, because of your tax policy, you only develop the financial sector, especially when it comes to records of values emanating from local self-government, because under the Public Debt Act, such securities can only be purchased by banks and financial institutions. And the state, of course, is just never going to do it, because it doesn't have enough money for itself either. Let me get back to Article 10. It's a bill of law. When it comes to this famous propaganda and advertising, I have to ask a question – is it because of public enterprises, which and how they advertise through public information means, is this done to benefit, apart from Srdjan Shaper and Dragan Gilas, from having DS, because this way they will be able to launch more funds for the upcoming elections? It seems to me, since you're proposing these changes, that you don't care that at this speed the SNS has collected a million signatures and that the elections are much closer than the ministers and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic say, and that you have reason to be afraid of the SNS. You will not be able to intimidate citizens or sanctions, or wars, or neulacess in the EU, but in the event of these elections being called, those ads that will be paid for by the Elektroprivreda of Serbia will be financed by the SPS, by the funds that will pay for the 'Post' or 'Telecom' campaign will be financed by the DS, from ads paid by local self-government and public enterprises -- all of them from that coalition 'Together'. It's just, I don't think all that's gonna be enough to beat us in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35804	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with five legislative regulations, three of which represent a certain type of budget revenue cuts, while the two laws, which we ratify certain loans, show us how the current government fills in inadequate and insufficient revenues in the budget. It may not have anything to do with it at first sight, but it does. Absolutely has a direct connection. It is these five laws that show how the current power is met in terms of lack of funds and deficits in the budget, and on the other hand, this latest regulation, which guarantees the credit line of a public enterprise, speaks about how the current government, without prior control, without analysis, gives guarantees to the public system and thereby undermines the financial, economic system and also the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Dragutinovic, you have explained in the light of the first draft law, the customs law, speaking of the complexity of this law, said, among other things, that it is a law that solves technical issues, that it is published on 110 pages and that it basically means the liberalisation of goods and services, enables accelerated flows in the field of goods, services and capital, etc. However, I must stress that this is not just a technical question. Customs law is both a fiscal and economic and financial and economic and economic and social and political and legal and demographic issue, etc. One law of customs law covers all these issues together. It can't just be a technical question. Why is this a fiscal and financial issue? It's mostly because the state limits part of customs revenue. We (when I say - we, I mean the current government, the state, the budget) and we have imposed a reduction in budget revenues based on customs duties. In 2008, it ended with 70 billion in the budget, which came from customs revenues. In 2009, that income was reduced by nearly 30 billion. Last year, about 43 billion dinars were charged, down some 28-29 billion. How to replace the difference between these revenues best shows item 4 of this agenda – loans, borrowing and new loans. The transitional trade agreement and the Association Agreement are also legal regulations that directly affect the customs system. By ratifying both documents and other documents, we directly create customs policy. So it is that this customs law is complex, that it solves many issues in the field of transport of goods, services and capital, but other legislation, an international agreement, which ratifys this assembly, is far more important and more vital, because it directly becomes the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which in certain matters derogates customs law, derrogates rates, basics, etc. What is important to stress, is that the Republic of Serbia, by accepting the Transition Trade Agreement, lost 300 billion euros in income from customs. In what way, in which way, do you substitute the incomes that came on this basis? There's no basis, you don't create them. Mrs Dragutinovic, on Thursday, when you answered Prime Minister Jeremic's question about foreign trade, you stressed that we have achieved great success because the deficit has been reduced. Tell me one measure by which you have affected the reduction of imports, i.e. an increase in exports. In 2009, imports were reduced by 35%, spontaneously, by no government activity. I will read you the data on the country's external trade balance for the last seven-eight years: 2003 – 1,890,000,000, 2005 – 4,831,000,000, 2007 – 7,75,000 euros, 2008 – 8,152,000,000 euros, 2009 – about 4,800,000 and something more, depending on which course we take into account. This reduction is not the result of any government activity. When we talk about exports, exports are also reduced. We must not boast that we have reduced the deficit. We are objectively, but this is the result of secondary activities, which are not the result of government activity. No government activity went in the direction of reducing imports and increasing exports. If it were, then the deficit would be much smaller. The exports we had in 2009 correspond to exports from the '90s are far less than exports that we had in the '70s and 80s. What activities can we boast that we have achieved success, that we have increased exports or reduced imports? There's no such thing as activity. Here, I'll read you one piece of information that tells you about how much care there is in the area of exports. In 2009, 580 tonnes of pork was exported, and on the other hand, 4.208 tonnes of pork was imported. We're not talking about the quality of imports right now, we're not talking about the funds that the importers gave for the import of pork, we're talking about classical data, how little we export, what are the advantages of this area, our country, to improve exports. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, Serbia was a feather in pig exports, and now we have a situation for us to import. How many times? We import seven times more than we export. Where's the government measure? She's gone. Let's go back to the policy that stems from the Transition Trade Agreement. Customs rates have been reduced, the basics have been reduced, the state has lost 300m euros on the basis of this reduction, but other direct effects are far more unfavourable for the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. What are the effects? By reducing the customs rate, by reducing the base, we got far less income from customs and less income from VAT. On the other hand, in transport we got far more import products. This led to a direct unfair competition against domestic producers. We made a bad move in the interests of producers from the Republic of Serbia. The producers from the Republic of Serbia, in unfair competition, came in a position to have huge supplies, to have unequivocal business, to be in debt on unfavourable interest and to come into a state of insolvency, to shut down businesses, to fire workers and all other negative phenomena. With imports like this and the absence of State intervention, we created preconditions for shutting down the domestic economy. That's why industrial production was reduced in 2009 by 12 points by some percent. It's a long way from here. Your statistics certainly don't match that. The data you listed on the Ministry of Finance website, the Statistical Office and other state authorities are haired. They're not like that. The decline in industrial production is far greater. The fall of construction, trade, etc. It's far bigger than you're suggesting. This tells us data from chambers of commerce and other associations that gather manufacturers, which indicate that in these conditions they cannot work and do business. Where's the state? She's gone. What are the credit lines that you've provided to the economic operators so they can survive this difficult time? The economic crisis was present in the world, it is present today, but everyone in a certain way circled their credit systems, helped their economy, made it possible to survive. But our economy doesn't survive, it's exhaling. That's a fact, it tells us that at this point 67,000-68,000 economic operators are blocked. They also blocked a huge activity in the budget system, which amounts to 270-280 billion dinars, which would be a real injection if we had the opportunity to pick it up. The tax administration blocked 60 and a few thousand businesses, but the funds that these companies were obliged to invest in the Republic of Serbia's budget were also blocked. The budget has also been damaged, all budget beneficiaries, pension and health funds, as well as all other state institutions that are alimony based on these funds have been damaged. I will give you the 2008 data on the participation of revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The share of customs revenue in 2008 was 11%, in 2008 7%, in 2010 will, according to this projection, be 6%, and God forbid it is also charged. What should concern you and the citizens of Serbia, and especially the current government, which does nothing about all of these negativeities that the SRS and opposition in this parliament point to, and you have to take action, is the following. It is very dangerous for workers who lose their jobs to go to the streets and get along by going to the gray economy. According to economic experts, the grey economy covered around 12-13% of all financial flows in 2008. About four billion euros moved in that gray zone. In 2009, the same experts say it is about 10 billion euros somewhere. That's one-third. On the streets these days, foreign currency dealers have shown up. You can go to smaller cities today, I don't know about Belgrade, probably even here, get fuel on black. In smaller cities, I'm telling you responsibly, it's on its way. There are no canisters on the streets yet, but they'll be here very soon. It all needs to worry you, to show you that you have to take action to remove all those problems that have culminated over the past few years. Given the weather, I have to point out another negative phenomenon. It is that you, through this second law, have deleted interest on the basis of foreign exchange savings through the amendments and additions of the Law on the income tax. It's that you helped the citizens, and they won't take interest, but you didn't help the state. Who did you help most? You helped the banks. The banks are in a privileged position. The whole economy and the whole society is loitering in deficits, in losses, in debt. Only banks make incomes, earn profits, and throw money at each other. Here's how you help the banking system. This is how banks create a battery. Those funds that citizens are supposed to pay to the state, they won't come into the budget, they'll end up at the banks again, and the bank will come cheaply to credit funds. You say yourself, it's what your ministry finds, and so does the Prime Minister, that passive and active interest in banking business are very negative phenomena. The relationship between active and passive is between three and 18 times. Not half, but times. That's how much money is poured into the banking system. And, of course, you get those funds (when I say you, I mean the budget of the Republic of Serbia) through the sale of vault records on very favourable terms, you cover the deficit of the budget, and banks, instead of placing it in the economy, are going to budget, because it's far safer. What's in it for citizens? They don't have anything. All they have is the obligation to extract 95% of the budget's income through the tax system. It's a sad fact, but it's a fact. In the restrictive policy of the state, in restrictive laws, in taxes and in force of the state apparatus, lives this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35806	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35807	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, thought I would use some time to amend the Company Tax Act because these changes missed the chance to give a greater incentive to the development of the civil sector and to invest in culture, by expanding the activity of Article 15, but I will talk about it another time. It's just that I can't avoid (against Mrs. President) the story of this loan, for which we have to give the guarantee today, for "Srbigas". In the morning, the president of the assembly -- pardon the expression -- "offed" that Mr. Bajatovic is not in conflict of interest. They repeat what their LDP MPs said. The law has been in force since 1 January of this year and Bajatovic and others in this room are in conflict of interest. The first April is only a time limit for identifying which of these two functions will be performed. At this point they are in conflict of interest and should not and they should not participate in the debate concerning their company. When I say theirs, in the case of "Serbiagas," we can literally, according to the director's behaviour, say it's his firm. We have not heard what the loss of the company is, although the final account has been completed (he is finished and has had to be handed over), and you are asking us to give a guarantee for a 170m-euro loan. With those 160, to cover the budget deficit, it's only at this session, 300 and some million euros in debt. You see, Mrs Dragutinovic, this loan for "Srbigas" will start to pay off after three years in 2013. It'll be another government. It'll be paid by 2021, eight years. So kids who are now going to primary school will become full-time until the loan is paid, which at this point, under the current conditions, costs about 5.5%, and will certainly be more expensive. We don't know any numbers, no data, or how that debt came about or what caused it. We only know what we see, that he has a debt. Bajatovic claimed these days that the debt is 170m euros, just how big is this loan. Let's say it's 100 million euros. This means that this public enterprise, our finance company, among other things, when it comes to losses, taxes paid by citizens, all citizens, or Serbia, costs 250,000 euros a day, on condition that the loss for the past year is 100 million, and probably more. We've been attending plays all the time, like those trumpeters in honor of the Russian president, big sums of money being spent on media advertising, and we can't get the information about how much "Srbigas" spends that money. We can't even get a simple answer to the question – what will the monopolies have to do with such media promotion or attention? Yesterday, Bajatovic delivered assistance to people at risk of floods in Zajecar worth 15,000 euros, and this company under Mr. Bajatovic's management costs all of us a day at least 250,000 euros and perhaps 450,000 euros, if it really is 170m euros in debt. It's a lot of easy spending money on something that we simply don't have the fact that we're deciding, and you're sitting there, keeping your mouth shut, and you'll probably finally tell us some information. You, gentlemen of the DS, will vote for this, you won't think about hiring children who will become an adult in 2021. I really have to ask – how is it possible that such a company exists? How do you in the government allow this company, which has so much loss, to buy shares in computer equipment companies, to buy glassware, to get into insurance business with Russian partners? It's just incredibly archiving. I understand the cost of the coalition, but somehow, you have to agree, that price is very expensive. When we add even those pointless 10% pension increases (non-sensual because it's very fast, by the downfall of the dinar, depriving the 10%), then indeed this price of that coalition is too expensive. When we pick up those losers who are controlled by the three-member coalition, your partners, gentlemen of the DS -- the SPS, the PUPS and the JS, and when we add the Railways, and she's in the power of Minister Mrkonjic, with absolutely fantastic loss of billions of euros, and then these 170 million, or how much already, "Serbiagas", then that "Jat" and his 30-40 million look like peanuts. Is it possible that a company that's a monopoly makes such a loss? You, Mrs Dragutinovic, say that out of these 170 million, 120 will be used to fund the current commercial obligations, i.e. The loans that this company has already taken, but it can't pay them back. Twenty million, you say, are additional investments. I guess that's the new gas warehouse, 'cause we gave this to a Russian partner so generously. But it's shocking that 30 million is meant for liquid liquidity. It kind of seems like Mr. Bajatovic is coming in here, coming out and almost getting easy cash. And with that light cash, I suppose, he wants to go to Madrid, with his dawn, to watch the Champions League finals. That's what we need to pay through this loan. What business interest requires the director of "Serbiagas" to go to the game? Or pay him for it, which is worse. We'd better pay him if he wants to watch that game. Or is it someone else's pay, like a Russian partner? Even so, he must, under the Law of Conflict of Interest, report this gift. It's simply an incredible behavior of the head of public enterprises. Now let's not just talk about this, but this is on the agenda. And you, ma'am, who are in charge of public finances, so you come to the Assembly and you say, "That's how much it takes, that's the government's decision, and you vote and we move on." It just doesn't work that way, at least as far as we're concerned by LDP. The information for which we would be in charge of those who will become full-time in 2021 (President: National MP, time available to the parliamentary group has been used. We do not like what we see from the behavior of the head of the company, and certainly we are not prepared to do this kind of crazy thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35808	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milos Radulovic, followed by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35809	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The subject of today's debate is two laws on credit debt. The first law on granting guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banka Intez, following the borrowing of the Public Enterprise "Serbia" Novi Sad, amounting to 170m euros, to refinance short-term commitments towards commercial banks and finance the maintenance of current liquidity and additional investment. The second law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the "Este Bank" a.d. Novi Sad, amounting to 40m euros, at the "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade, worth 100m euros, and at the "Vojvodjanska Banka" a.d. Novi Sad, worth 20m euros, to finance the budget deficit and refinance the debt, totaling 160m euros. Both laws weigh 330m euros. For so many of you Serbian citizens are in debt on loans that are refinanced compared to loans already taken and cover budget gaps. You take these loans, Mrs Dragutinović, to commercial banks, with interest exceeding 5%. I would remind you that in Europe, it is a practice for economic operators to be granted loans at a rate of 1.8 to 2%. The cost of these loans is, therefore, significantly higher, and their intention is not to launch production, investment cycle, but to cover budget gaps and deficits, i.e. for the liquidity of certain public enterprises. By ratifying these loans, you have increased the public debt. We are also witnessing different interpretations of what this public debt is. Your estimate was that the public debt was about 31 points something percent. The other day, the president of the state, Mr Tadic, said the public debt is about 35%. I'm afraid, with this loan-enhancing dynamic, public debt will exceed 50% of the social product this year. In this year, you've already taken credit for covering the budget deficit of $200 million. It's so-called. Russian loan. The fact is, you're taking all the loans right now to cover the budget deficit and liquidity, and we're afraid that these loans and this practice of taking credit for the refinancing and continuing. This year we are already expected to return the loan on the basis of the loans we took, worth 2.6m euros. Business entities owe more than 10 billion euros abroad, in particular 10.9 billion, and exports amounted to 5.96m euros in 2009, so that half of these export funds should practically go to service these debts. It is also discouraging that exports are lower by 5.2 billion euros compared to imports, and that 53% of goods are imported in the structure, with only 7.8% being means of work, or equipment. The biggest participation in exports is agriculture, the total exports are 23%, and the allocations for agriculture from the budget are very low. Last year it was 2.2% of the total budget, and this year it's something like 3%. By the way, agriculture was the only one in the last year with a surplus of 700 million dollars. It's obvious that the largest developmental branch, when it comes to exports, is exactly the agriculture you're dealing with step-by-step. The state does nothing for 700,000 agriculture households. We are witnessing that last year the big problem was precisely the price and purchase of agricultural products. Carelessness and incompetence are the main features of this government, which entails new borrowings, new burdens that they must bear, and now it is certain that the commitments next to them, and their descendants must return. How else can we interpret, Mrs Dragutinovic, statements by government members that the state is coming out of the crisis, that we are already registering growth in production of 3.7% in January, when compared to the average production in 2009 we have a drop of 12.1%? We're also recording a fall in direct investment. Let me remind you, in 2007, direct investment was four billion euros, and in 2009, it was just over one billion, namely 1,300,000 euros. The number of economic operators in the blockade is increasing. Over 60,000 economic operators, in particular 66,438 operators, are in a blockade. You promised 200,000 new jobs. Instead, in 2009, 200,000 people lost their jobs and, according to the dynamics that are visible and all parameters show that in 2010 practically every month 14,000 people are out of work. There are currently 723,000 people on the National Employment Service records. The trend will only increase, and the question is how many other people are out of work who have not applied to the National Employment Service. There are more and more poor people living below the poverty line. Minister Ljajic said the other day that more than 700,000 people live below the poverty line. Strikes and fear in most people that they'll lose their jobs characterize the state of society. The average salary falls in absolute terms and is already below 300 euros. I will remind you that we have the least average salary in the environment, that the average salary in Macedonia is 331 euros, in BiH 395 euros, Montenegro 456 euros, in Croatia 724 euros, in Slovenia 935 euros. The average pension is 21,700 dinars, and a large number of pensioners, namely 356,000, receive a pension below 11,000 dinars. Unlike the citizens of Serbia, who "fat" feel the consequences of the crisis and the irresponsibility of this government, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Governor Jelasic, Minister Dinkic and President Tadic are vehemently repeating that Serbia is coming out of the crisis and that this year we will have a 1.5% GDP growth, and this year the media is helping citizens to show another Serbia. For you, it is not enough to warn the businessmen that Serbia's economy is far from getting out of the crisis, that the key reasons for this too much public spending, the course, indifference, the drop in exports and unemployment are. Economists warn that growth in the economy is only possible if exports rises, and little export orientation in Serbia. These days, Serbian citizens face a wave of gatherings that will affect the cost of life. The power went up 11%, the gas went from 106.6 to 111 dinars, cable TV from 745 to 820 dinars. They collected milk and milk products. From March 1st he collects a telephone subscription from 230 dinars to 458 dinars. The estimate is that an increase in energy prices will lead to an increase in the prices of basic life supplies by 5 to 7 per cent. The standard of citizens will be even lower. The purchasing power will fall under the rush of new gatherings and with the fall of small profits anyway, with an increase in the number of those who will lose their jobs. The ruling coalition says it is better to live, trying to fool citizens into living in a stable state. And the only one who lives better in this country is you, Mrs Dragutinovic, and the ruling coalition, the tycoons who create extraprofits thanks to, above all, that you repay their debts come from the gratitude that they put together this government, of which only they and you benefit. Mrs Dragutinovic, production was lower by 12.1% compared to last year, demand dropped by 14.3% and average earnings were less than 300 euros. There's a growing number of hungry people and those who are out of work. These are the results of your policy. The best thing to do is to call the election as soon as possible and to get citizens to assess your work and how much you've affected their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35810	The People's MP Zoran Antic has the word, followed by the MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the situation in the economy, the standard of citizens and over 120,000 dismissed workers during the previous year, I expected this regular session to have a much more serious agenda than the one proposed by the assembly majority. I believe that on the agenda, above all, there should have been laws that would help the economy overcome this difficult economic situation in which it is located, not laws that, such as customs law, are essentially continuing with trade liberalisation policy, with a customs policy that started in 2000. This, of course, does not mean that the SNS has something against trade liberalisation, we are fully aware that it is inevitable today, that it is necessary to engage in the international division of work, but for the SNS at this point it is more important that, above all, the speed we are moving towards liberalisation and that it is synchronised with the formation of new institutions that would allow our economy to, with such liberalisation, survive. So, I would like to say that it seems to me that much more important than this customs law to correct everything that has been done so far (there is a lot in the process of liberalisation of the external trade regime) and that everything that people of the profession point to, and as far as the failures and the bad side is concerned, that economic policy, which is liberalisation itself, is analysed and puts it before MPs. Because the explanation that you gave after this customs code is an extraordinary crutch. I would say that it does not even contain any serious reasons why the law that we adopted in 2003 changed in 2010 and I would say that a serious analysis of the current policy of liberalisation of foreign trade is needed. Thanks to this policy, but above all, the policy of the course that has been conducted since 2000, we have destroyed the good part of the export economy. Today we are not in a situation where we can boast that we have a serious export sector, that in the transition process we have actually done the deindustriousisation of Serbia. We have done a very bad job when it comes to the structure of our economy and the level of development of the Serbian industry is not even close to what we all expected, and above all to what you promised when you came in 2000. We have, and we have had before this economic crisis, a very small industrial production. This industrial production fell particularly in this year 2009. The big problem is the processing industry. We have a decline of about 17%, which means that there is a contraction of the Serbian economy and that we are entering quite uncertain in 2010, regardless of all the optimistic forecasts that come from the government. I think that the number of jobs lost should, above all, start a serious action, a serious change in economic policy with which the government should go to the citizens. Like I said, over 120,000 jobs were lost in 2009. Only in Pomoravlje did we lose 4,782 jobs in 2009. That's about 8% compared to the total number of jobs, which is not negligible at all. What is the situation in the Serbian economy and what economic policy has been led in the previous period, I think we can best see through the competitiveness index, which was given in 2009 and where Serbia ranks 93th out of 133 countries that have been considered, that in Europe, Albania has a worse place than we do, 96th place, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, 109th place. When it comes to market efficiency, we have taken a catastrophic 112th place, thanks to, above all, to the serious monopolies that exist on our market, thanks to the good part, to an import lobby, which and how it has made economic policy and affected the politics and the National Bank of Serbia, means the total monetary policy, primarily the politicians, trying to keep some profits, some of the rents that it has made in some previous period, since 2000. When it comes to the problems of the Serbian economy, we can best see through the competitiveness index that, above all, corruption, political instability, access to financial resources and the inefficientness of the state apparatus. All these problems, which have a significant impact on the economic situation in Serbia, are the state and failed reforms. Since time is running out, let me just say that it seems to me that by this law, which you have proposed to the National Assembly, you have literally tried to reach out in part to the EU, in part to the import lobby, and that, unfortunately, the law itself will not do any good and nothing important to the economy in some future period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35812	The time of the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group has been used. The word has been issued by MP Vladan Jeremic, followed by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35813	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what both representatives of both the government and the opposition agreed on, at least if it is to believe the statements made by Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic at the end of last year, is the fact that the existing income tax system of citizens is really complicated and inapplicable in the economic reality in which the state and citizens of Serbia are located, and that one really essential, not only cosmetic, reform or change is needed. It is evident, therefore, that the applicable income tax system of citizens does not, in practice, meet any of the essential parameters on which to evaluate the income tax model of citizens. Also, I am sure that we share an opinion and that reforming the tax system may also be the most significant segment of the comprehensive reforms of the economic system of the Republic of Serbia. This current Law on Income Tax has practically not made any fundamental or radical twist in Taxation Policy, but, in fact, there is a combined system of taxation present on the scene, which today is true for the will, and this shows data, very rarely happiness in modern tax systems in the world. Here may be the only logical explanation that Serbia is a state where nothing makes sense. We in the SRS point out that for a fundamental reform of tax policy it is necessary to take into account several essential facts, which is that the real economic and social effects of applying a certain form of taxation can be significantly different from those found in economic theories. So it is necessary to respect, above all, the characteristics of Serbia's economy, its potential development ambition, the performance of the tax administration and the inevitable level of tax morality. When it comes to the image of Serbia's economy, there is the largest number of citizens all and so clearly and well known. This shows data on the country's debt, industrial production and all other parameters that indicate that the overall macroeconomic situation in which the state of Serbia is located and how difficult it is. Also, when analysing the existing income tax, as well as planning or projections of tax reforms, it is necessary to take into account data concerning tax income structures by types of income, and these data say that incomes from labour account for 90% of the registered tax income of citizens in Serbia, while some 10% of the income is based on capital. In doing so, employee earnings account for more than 80% of registered tax income and are also the most significant and important category of income for citizens in Serbia. So, what is a crucial issue of any reform of the income tax will certainly be that tax treatment that will earn employees in Serbia, who, truth be told, are less and less from day to day. These official statistics are both devastating and worrying at the same time, as 63% of employees earn less than average, half of the workers receive less than 75% of the average profit, only 8% are employees who receive a profit that is higher than the average average profit, and nearly a fifth of the people in Serbia today receive the so-called. minimum wage, i.e. minimum earnings. If, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs know that the application of any tax has consequences and that certain costs arise, since we always have that in every draft law, so an item relating to all taxpayers, then it should be pointed out that for tax administration, through billing and control costs, there are also costs for taxpayers, through filing tax returns, accompanying documents, keeping records, etc. What we are facing today in Serbia is one general rule that the cost of applying taxes is greater the tax system is more complicated, and this is what it is today on the scene in Serbia. To clarify things, the tax form in which a larger number of tax rates apply, although there are more releases and reliefs, is also more complicated. I suppose it is very well known to all of you that, in the conditions of high international mobility of capital and income tax, it is one of the factors of the country's international competitiveness, and apparently the position of Serbia is quite poor. Of course, for all potential investors, whether domestic or foreign, which is less and less, the overall fiscal burden of a particular factor of production is also important, and not just that burden arising from income tax. The balance of income tax in Serbia is relatively low. The participation of income tax in Serbia's GDP is about 5%, which is even compared to the Member States of the European Union, which is, by the way, the leader of all these legal projects and reform ventures, significantly lower. It is clear that this is the result of the absolutely unfavourable functioning of macroeconomic factors, the tax measures that the government has taken over the past period, as well as the degree of charge, which we know at which level it is. The fact that there is still a fairly widespread grey economy, says counterpart Milorad Buha. This is a problem the state must face, as the presence of a grey economy reduces income from taxing labour income, as well as income from taxing income from capital. We, Mrs Dragutinovic, as citizens of the Serbian state, need a fundamental reform not only of tax regulations, but of complete tax administrations. What we in the SRS pointed out as a necessary step, and based on some previous experiences, primarily on transition countries, from the point of view of some economic efficiency, one of the most suitable species would at this point be this so-called. proportional income tax. It is a tax already applied by countries such as Russia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, etc. It is obvious, faced with problems like Serbia today, and with the desire to meet some of those basic parameters in terms of income tax reform, at this point, when you decide to really reform the entire tax system, at least when it comes to income tax, it is clear that this model is the most acceptable model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35814	Eight minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has been given by MP Dejan Mirovic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic, who is also the last registered speaker on the application list for the word of the MPs. The SRS parliamentary group shall have 41 minutes at its disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35815	Ladies and gentlemen, already in the opening parts of the Customs Law proposal, which is the first on this list, clearly and sincerely state the right objectives for the adoption of this law. More specifically, the second part of the reasoning says that the objectives are to facilitate international trade, to bring the EU legislation into line, to act as an open market economy, to liberalise trade in goods and services, as well as to expand international trade. That, of course, is true and we do not dispute that these are the main objectives of the law. However, it might have been added that the law was done not only in agreement with the EU and the conditions needed for the World Trade Organisation, but also with the IMF's letter of intent. You said in the opening statement that these five laws, in fact, are a kind of additional measure on the revenue side of the budget, and in this context, in the letter of intent, in the fifth paragraph, that is page 2, it is literally said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will consult with the IMF before adopting such additional measures, in line with IMF policy. So there is no doubt, if we know that the letter of intent was sent in 3.12.2009, that these laws were passed in that context. However, in the first paragraph of this famous letter of intent, the rationale of customs law has been denied in fact and it is said that in certain sectors the effects of the global financial crisis on our economy have been greater than predicted. However, customs law argues that it is not. Also, customs law speaks of a moment of expansion of international trade. I'm not convinced that's the case. Just look at how our foreign trade has fallen, not to talk any further about global circumstances, and you'll see that's not true. This leads us to conclude that this customs law is still a bit outdated, because, as you know, the government submitted it on 16 March 2009. In that sense, I believe the IMF is more right than those who wrote that law. However, another economic dilemma is being put in place in terms of this and these laws. I would take advantage of the opportunity that you are here to express a dilemma, in the name of the SRS and in my personal name, which is – is it true that the Harrod-Domar model is applied by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so all 'our partners', and in fact by creditors? That's exactly the kind of trust that affects our economic policy to the most. Is that true? And it's true, I'll give you proof. It is a textbook that applies at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, whose author you are and which I was pleased to read, it is extraordinary. If I'm not mistaken, on 50 and on one side of it it says that Harrod-Domar's model is harmful and, I paraphrase, you're an example of Zambia, where it's said exactly because of the application of that model, instead of that African country turning into a highly developed country, it's led to one of the poorest. In that context, I express my dilemma. If you, as a respected doctor of economic sciences, a lecturer and a professor at the Faculty of Economics, write in your book that this is not good, and on the other hand the IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank apply it, then I come up with a kind of dilemma that's actually true. I think what it says in your book is true and that this particular model, which applies to the IMF, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is disastrous for our country and that it can lead us on the path that this African country is going to take. By the way, the book is extraordinary, there's no doubt. On the other hand, customs law, as stated in the reasoning of the draft law, is adopted in order to comply with EU legislation. However, as we have already said, the text was adopted on 16 March 2009, and in the meantime, it happened that a transitional trade agreement by the EU Council of Ministers was unfreezed on 7 December 2009. So, there has been a major change as far as our customs system is concerned, because, as you know, this Transition Trade Agreement, above all, regulates the abolition and reduction of customs duties in mutual trade with the EU. You, if I am not mistaken, said in December 2008, that the losses caused by this unilateral application would be around 260m euros. Of course, in the meantime, just because of this fall of foreign trade, there has been a much smaller number. If I'm not mistaken, Ms. Milica Delevic is talking about 60m euros. However, however you turn, it is a loss, especially in these difficult moments for our economy. That is also recognised by Peter Senfej, the leading economist of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, who said in a report on Serbia it was a bold decision, however, that it was a loss. So there's no use in the Transition Trade Agreement, except for the political one, but that applies first and foremost to the power of this quasi-position party. To try to cover up or mask that harmful decision, it is said that we will allegedly get access to the EU market of 500 million people. However, I will remind you that this approach was approved in November 2000, if I am not mistaken, but from 2000 to 2008 the external trade deficit not only did not fall, but you know that the EU is our main foreign trade partner, but even increased (2008 was about $12 billion). On the other hand, it is said that for the seven-year-olds since the suspension of customs duties towards the EU, we have reportedly received about 1.2 billion euros. It's just enough to compare that figure to the external trade deficit for one year and share it with this 50% foreign trade exchange that goes with the EU and you'll see that the money is actually going from Serbia to the EU, not in the opposite direction. We can now phrase, we can talk that the EU is our future, but economic data, neutral, without any ideology, show that the EU is taking advantage of the Republic of Serbia in fact. It can't be denied by any phrases, by any severity, that's a fact. On the other hand, I am simply expressing the infidelity that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular that economic part, has been speaking with the head of mission, Albert Jaeger, who had disastrous results in Ukraine, Romania and in all other countries where he was the Head of Mission. I'm going to give you one example, that the biggest drop, if I'm not mistaken, except for the Baltic countries, was in Ukraine about 15%, and Mr. Jaeger was in 2004-2007 the head of the IMF Mission in that country. So, he doesn't have any results in practice, and here he's welcomed the malts like he's a Nobel Prize winner, like he's a Stiglitz. He's been having some kind of conversation for two weeks. I don't know what kind of conversations that last two weeks are. We saw that he visited some wineries, etc., I wouldn't be getting into the details now, but it's just amazing, especially because he didn't show any results in his work in Eastern Europe so far. You have seen what he has achieved in Romania -- 100,000 workers in the state administration have been fired. The ones on the surface that can be compared to the former Yugoslavia have only about 200km of highways. How is that possible? It's a huge foreign trade debt. Your Romanian government colleague even suggested an absurd and morbid funeral tax, you probably read it in our press. You can see that there's economic despair, that there's a bad situation, and it's not just because of the bad policy of these authorities, but because of Mr. Jaeger's advice, the IMF mission and all those who appear here as some rescuers. As for the other laws that provide for foreign banks working in Serbia's territory, I again see a link to the letter of intent, where literally, if I am not mistaken, on page 20, says that I should paraphrasise, liquidate state property in domestic banks. First, that's a scary expression for me. Secondly, it shows what awaits the Commercial Bank and other remaining domestic banks. In that sense, I think that this customs law is also far from the problem itself, and the problem is that the IMF, which has proved unsuccessful in Eastern Europe, is leading the country's economic policy. I'm going to give you another example on which I'm building this thesis. Look at Greece. They have about 200-300 billion euros in debt. All EU officials, from Jean-Claude Junker to Germany's Finance Minister, your colleague, literally say it is out of the question that the IMF is helping Greece. Not with advice, let alone with regard to the loan. How is that possible? Greece is a country that, by population, can be compared to us, regardless of what is in the EU. In the case of California, you know there was a huge deficit in the budget there, the Americans wouldn't use the IMF services. Neither in the United States nor in the Western part of the EU is used by the IMF, even by indignity, but something that has destroyed countries such as Ukraine and Romania is used for Eastern Europe and for the countries that are planning to be members of the EU. So I think they should learn from that. You can't say that Greece is in good shape and that it doesn't need help, but, I repeat, the IMF is not mentioned in any variant. As for customs as a kind of protection, which you, if I'm not mistaken, have said are exceeded and that world trade is heading towards globalisation, I completely agree. But on the other hand, you have much more perfect methods of operation than customs. These are various administrative bans, extra customs methods. Do you know who applies these methods most? The European Union. The European Union, in fact, applies a new type of protectionism, which does not include customs and poor countries, such as Serbia, Bulgaria and Romania, can only be defended through old methods and customs. Look at the standards imposed by the European Union. Look at the number of those standards. That's a few thousand, a few tens of thousands, and more. That's what your colleague Predrag Bjelic wrote about, if I'm not mistaken, from the Faculty of Economics. He published a great book, showing in a reasoned way that these extra-tariff methods are the basic means through which the EU defends its market. So the phrase that we are reportedly going to be in some free trade, in some free economic game, to get some privileges on that 500 million market, is not realistic and it is only a matter of time before it is a majority position in the economic part of our public and among the population. We can phrase, we can deceive the people (of course, not you, but the bloc that represents the thesis -- the EU at all costs, no alternative), but the fact that people live up there and that by the IMF, which goes hand in hand with the EU, is done, and we will say it openly, a terrible blow. Not on public spending, but on pensioners, government employees, all endangered categories and, above all, the unemployed. In that sense, I think the IMF is working against you, regardless of the fine wishes and fine phrases of Mr. Jaeger. I think it works, first of all, against our pensioners. Because freezing pensions isn't exactly an expression. Freezed pensions in inflation of 7% can only mean their fall. We are not happy that time will show that we are right, but the economic policy run by the IMF and the EU together with the IMF, since you know that under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 117, the European Union conditions Serbia to listen to IMF advice, will lead to even worse situations than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35816	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35817	Mr. Novakovic, I'm going to create a slightly broader context for these laws that are a united item of the agenda. I'll start from 2001 and one law that was on the agenda, I think, in this room after the renovation, because you know it was set on fire and destroyed when democracy hit us. One of the first laws that was passed here was the law on the prevention of money laundering. The aim of the adoption of the law is to get close to a convention that has been ratified and that, at that time, the SRJ, later the State Community, so today the Republic of Serbia, too, will not be a money launderer. At that time, two concepts were promoted as to what our law should look like, which regulates that area and prevents dirty money, as it is said in the jargon, from being washed across our banks, financial organisations and otherwise staying here or going abroad. At that time, the governor proposed a concept that was also subject to great criticism. It has been said, it will be prevented. We had a situation that last year something was also done on that regulation. It went so far that even the lawyers were obliged to guarantee, if it were, 50,000 euros and more, the origin of that money. I'm saying this for one simple reason, that shutting down our banks and the fact that bankruptcy and liquidation aren't even... I can't say it's over, because it's probably not gonna end for another ten years, because a lot of claims are uncleared, not to say controversial. They simply made us an economic and market area where it is possible to present everything to the needs of real policy. For example, it is possible that there is something written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that people swear by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and then accept Kushner and he goes to Pristina and gives a warm kiss there with people who have proven terrorists. Although it's hard to kiss someone in their congregation without being a terrorist, since the terrorist organization was painted. Then, from time to time, we are amazed by something, like an affair or this affair that shakes up the state and now it's talking about who gave citizenship, who made it possible for something to happen to someone not to be available to the authorities, what humiliation the International Police Organisation is treating Serbia, and it is not possible to ask the question of who was laundering all the money in this country. Where are the banks, where is the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, where are the institutions? We're facing organized crime that has its own vertical and horizontal organization, we're facing a single system, and some are fainting so that someone could buy thousands and thousands of acres of farmland. And who did he buy it from? Who was the salesman? Who stopped the money laundering? Of course, when you buy a large amount of narcotics in South America under the nose of Americans, then don't be surprised, you might also be suspicious of working with Al-Qaeda and who knows what other things. Now, that's the policy that's being run. What is the purpose of customs regulations? It is true that customs regulations are losing their significance in terms of globalism. Well, basically globalism is "Mr. Dollar." You have a dollar -- you're beautiful; you have a dollar -- you're healthy; you have a dollar -- you can build it up, you can cut it down, you can paint it, it can grow, you can do what you want. But you also promote this system of values through television and commercials, and tomorrow you wonder what's wrong with the youth, what about violence, what about the fact that by 2:00 p.m., children sleep. Where are the jobs? You promised them 200,000. How long have you fired so far? And what's the point of these regulations? The capital market. As if there is no other market in the Republic of Serbia, only there is a capital market, so when there is a problem in the capital market, then you go into an academic debate whether it is the NBS's task to save the course or to dictate price stability. Imagine something that is profit, which is when someone buys debt securities of value, where the publisher of the Republic of Serbia... Now, you've passed, so you've put in this shift and autonomous province and local self-government. It is little that profits have been drawn through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, will now be drawn from both the local self-government budget and the autonomous province's budget. Why? Because there's a hunger for money, because this society has shown that it's not capable of making, this society is capable of spending. Spend what? What he gets, what he gets. The work cult doesn't exist. What jobs are these open? You've opened up some jobs across the state, 10,000, giving 20,000 dinars to people to stay at a company for a year, and what about tomorrow? And then we all get scared when we hear that a third of the population can't wait to leave this country. Why? Because there's no perspective, he doesn't see a way out of this situation. You saw for yourself, or your guard, who you forced to introduce into the Law on the National Assembly, did not allow you to have your MPs sit in this room. They set 'em on fire right away. Give the quorum and people go, finish their work. What? Grab it, grab it. "To the European Negotin." Well, the Danube has been going through Negota for billions of years and before it became the concept of Europe, but no, let's cheat, to survive. How long? How long to survive? If we take these two laws, the second and the third, which are on the agenda, I have to say that there, in addition to these termological alignments, and sometimes it goes beyond the termological alignment, there are some details that we've been instructed in our criticisms a few years ago. But the question is, what about this change if we don't have security in the application of regulations and laws. Our market is completely ravishing. If we have the need to hire our citizens, then we need customs law and customs tariff law to adapt to our interests. Because it's impossible that goods from abroad, which directly compete with our production, come from dumping prices. What are we doing then? Then we spread our market to the detriment of our interests and our citizens, in favour of those who want to win another's market. Although the issue today is to talk about their own and other interests, since this global economy obviously cancels borders and even destroys the sovereignty of some states. But in the European Union, we have a completely different practice. The European Union protects its market. With what? Quality standards and other ways, preventing goods from coming from other economic areas to the EU market. Are we able to raise these standards to that quality to be closed to EU goods? We are not, but we are able to look for those markets where a system of privileged nations applies, to look for those economic areas where we can realise our interests, and at this point the number one interest, after preserving the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic, is employment. In all these measures and changes to the regulations you're predicting, I don't see any jobs. You're in the capital market. Of course, you'll probably answer and say - well, the capital market, but it has its own causative relationship, so it's about the labour market and the commodity market, etc. Oh, let go of that story for some other locations. Those who are tracking the transmission today ask when they will go to their jobs, do not want to depend on social assistance. Do you know what kind of alarm people wake up with in the morning? Is there bread, what to children, what to family, what to do with yourself? There's no work, his company's closed. Are you thinking about those citizens? Whose policy do you run, the European Union or the Republic of Serbia? Whose interests do you satisfy, the citizens of Europe or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Identify yourselves. If your parola is "for European Serbia, satisfying the interests of Europeans in Serbia", we do not need you. Nobody voted for that, you know? You can interpret it any way you want, but no one voted for it. What kind of commercial arrangements are these with private and privatised banks? Some of our public affairs use private funds. The state is in charge on a commercial basis. Why? Well, the World Bank told you-- when are you gonna raise that money you're in charge of? And gather what you are in debt, and say how these citizens will pay, how they will repay it. It'll be 20 years from now. And will Serbia be in 20 years, with this kind of power? You've done the maximum monopolization of social life. You have monopolies in each segment. And bankers and insurance companies and trade and imports -- all over the monopoly. Where can a man direct his business activity without meeting someone who is privileged? Not by law, but by the abuse of law. From who? By individuals who exercise power. In whose favor do they exercise power? Is it one of those that turned a billion? Of course, rich people and tycoons, and now we have a sixth generation in part for the past 20 years and of course he doesn't want to lose his capital and his domination, of course he wants to influence what the majority of the congregation is going to look like, of course he wants to have his people in government, of course he wants to have his people in lower places than the minister. That's what everybody sees. That's what citizens feel. And they're not dealing with it. Keep quiet, swallow dumplings, interpret in some other way. Two years ago, I told you that there are big problems in the European Union, I just made a mistake in order. I said it was the first one on the list of Italy, Greece, then Spain. It happened, however, that it started with Greece. Mrs Dragutinovic, in this nation, an old saying goes, "You owe as much as Greece." Last year you taught us to accept standards and act like Greece. This is where Greece came from. And there's another saying: "You've cracked like a Bulgarian assembly." It's an old saying, you know? I get the impression that after the "you owe us like Greece," it says, "you've cracked like a Bulgarian assembly." You're interpreting this as a warning. We will debate in particular to point out concrete remarks and we will make some of our views about what is going on, but, Mrs Dragutinovic, the Finance Committee, since this assembly, has never considered the representations of citizens or some institutions. We made a precedent last year. All the board members, that's what I have to say. We wanted to see and hear what these were all about, what's in those plays, so we called up a session. They were representatives of some banks, some of the pyramidal savings of "Elite," as it was, allegedly a savings facility, and some group from Metals Bank. We are now talking about what is in the paper, but, Mrs Dragutinovic, the liquidity indifference or liquidity problems of the bank caused by the AP Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic. He withdrew the deposit, and then faster and better, by someone's order, Jelasic sent a team, temporary measures were introduced, changed leadership, and when it was over, the AP recovered funds, held a deposit at the Metals Bank. In January 2008, they announced that it would be the new development bank of the future Vojvodina, whatever its status would be interpreted. So we heard who this bank was doing a good job with, who kept all the deposits with her, who she was making payments to, what the potentials of that bank were, and now someone's putting this story in, which is very important. I remind you again, in 2001 there was a regulation on how to prevent money laundering. And then there was a dilemma about how we can control and prevent money laundering if the financial market or our entire banking system is being held by foreigners. And today it is uncertain, you have to say, you mustn't piss off these bankers from abroad. Last year, in January of the month, you begged them to stay. You guaranteed them the same profit as in 2008, about 400m euros and some million euros. Since they couldn't provide that in the business of citizenship and the economy, then you're through debt securities of value, and in one period the interest was o-ho-ho, all the citizens financed to get foreign banks abroad. Choose whose interests are represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is everything he does, does it in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or is it about other people's interests? Make up your mind if you clear up with organized crime. I understand you're not really able to do it effectively right now, because it's in all the pores. They're in power. No names should be spoken, but be assured, there are several people in each ministry who work for an organized group. That someone should wash, as you say, a billion dollars or euros in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that they have only one name and one last name, and that there is no organisation in vertical and horizontal terms, please, they will not trust you with children in the first grade of primary school. Why in the first grade of elementary school? It's enough that they're watching these criminal movies on TV, so it's clear to them that there's a much stronger organization behind it and it has its width. Employment, the fight against crime -- these are the basic things that are required of this government. These regulations that we are making today, these amendments and additions to these laws, do not open any place. It's possible to open a place in Customs, it's possible to open a place for a broker, but there's not one place that needs to create money that needs to create a new value. And as far as you're concerned, enough is the fact that you didn't vote this morning to include the DRI report and your bill on the 2008 final budget bill. Just to remind you, there is no law on the final budget bill for 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, there is a bill on the final account for 2007 and there is a bill, with the opinion of the auditor, for 2008. How is that possible? How is it possible to bring a budget for a year without at least two years before the final bill? You've got to lay down an account for someone. Do not think that the bills are only in the elections, so the umbrellas are divided, so for the European one, for the European one, and for the European juice, then for the European hill... You know, those capacities are exhausted. They are exhausted because there are no free shares worth thousands of euros. And this "Fiat" thing, people interpret each one in their own way. And this employment of people interprets it in its own way. Pensioners today live the second year without harmonising pensions. The question is, how long will it take? It's a question. I only took these fancy things, where they were completely different promises to the voters. A completely different promise. Just so you don't promise anything. As soon as you say we're gonna hire 100,000 people, you're gonna fire 100 grand. As soon as we say -- free shares per thousand euros, disaster. You know, Mrs Dragutinović, there is a real need for our public enterprises to take some investment in their work. Probably no one slows it down in this room, and it's probably what citizens feel. And I am absolutely certain that those in Zajecar, Negotina and that end feel, at least on our wet feet, that investment is needed to protect life and property. But if these funds are misused for other purposes, then don't take anything. Don't take anything, don't take anything. What kind of credit is it if those assets are directed at something else and they don't end up where they were meant to be? Then it's a double damage. You've satisfied some of your personal -- individual, group, collective, so why not say, perhaps some of the party interests. Although there are now fewer and fewer of these party interests that are being met. A simple principle - the bar fell, the crocodiles increased. The only thing left to do is bite more. But if you bite yourself, do it, please, in silence, don't over the media. And stop more of your political strength and your strength based on the fact that you can make 126 votes. These 126 votes can only guarantee the stability of existing authorities at some point, but that does not mean that they live well. That doesn't mean you did something right. Give some good results at last. Don't count on good results achieved by monopolies. Monopolies always achieve exceptional results, only for some time they are dissatisfied if something is not 25 but 24. But they always achieve extraordinary results and they're always safe in business. They never take any business risk. Why? They have properly deployed people and what they pay them, that's the cost of doing business, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35818	The exposure time is up. Please finish. Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has Mrs. Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the final debate on the five-financial law package. As always, the debate was quite open and quite critical. I have nothing against criticism and anyone who's been discussing this occasion today would like to thank you. I also, always, despite this cold, listen carefully to every MP in the National Assembly, and I will try one brief exposure to cover the most frequent criticisms of this package of laws. He was an MP who said that different government representatives, I suppose, think of ministers, give different information about public debt. In this place, I would like to point out that there are differences between public debt and government debt, that the government debt is what arises as a accumulated deficit from the past, and that public debt includes both public debt and debt of public enterprises, that at any moment it knows what is the sovereign debt, what is the public debt, and that together it is, in euros, estimated at around ten billion euros. Whether it's 31% or 32% or 33% of the social product, it depends, above all, on the assessment of the social product, which is changing, and on the course movement. But what you always know, at any moment, is the size of a debt, public, broadest concept. That's about 10 billion euros. Given the expected movement of the social product in 2010, new responsibilities, but also the return of existing debts, we will probably end in 2010 with the participation of public debt, hence the broadest concept, of around 35% of the social product. Many of your objections and criticisms were addressed to the account of the borrowing of JP "Srbijagas", i.e. giving guarantees by the state to the Public Enterprise "Srbijagas". I couldn't give you very technical details about this public enterprise here, but I wanted to share with you a few undisputed facts. First, in 2009, JP "Srbigas" ended with profits. The profit was around 950m dinars and JP "Srbigas" paid 75% of it into the republican budget in December 2009. As for JP "Srbigas" credit itself, they amount to 263m euros and, when you look at the state of responsibility of JP "Srbigas" on one side, and on the other side, their claims that can be charged (means not all, but those claims that can be charged), plus the gas reserves they have in Banatski Dvor, compared to those two things, it can be concluded that the debt is approximately equal to, or less, the value of gas reserves and billable claims. Someone suspected there was another gas storage facility. I would remind you that the annual gas consumption in Serbia is about two billion cubic metres, that around 40% can be satisfied from the Banatski Dvor and that it is perfectly normal for one country to have reserves that cover its annual consumption. The fact is, when we talk about who owns the Banat Palace, 51% is the Russian side, 49% is the Republic of Serbia. But what might be much more important than the ownership structure itself is how decisions are made. Decisions are made by consensus. In the end, what might be most important when the public company "Srbigas" is that JP "Srbiagas" did not buy the company. Two things have been done. First, there were three conversions of capital claims, it's not buying, and secondly, two recapitalisations. When we talk about how many of these capitalizations were, it was barely 0.5% of the total revenues of the Serbs. One of the MPs spoke, or even more, of customs law as a purely technical law. They also mentioned that customs law is doing something that is not his subject, which is to talk about liberalising the flows of goods or money. To remind you, customs law deals, essentially, only with customs procedures and customs procedures and he, as such, is a technical law. The liberalisation deals with other laws on foreign trade and foreign exchange, and customs policy, of course, the Customs Tariff Act. Someone asked when the government would propose and hand over a new customs tariff law to the Assembly. I would say that the moment Serbia becomes a member of the World Trade Organisation, a new customs tariff law will be drafted. Since there were a lot of questions about customs policy, I would still mention some of it. First, under the CEFTA agreement, these are relations between Serbia and all countries in the region, with the external trade of all industrial product tariff rates practically zero. Only a customs rate was left at a very small, limited number of agricultural products. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, these are relations between Serbia and the EU, a five-year adjustment period is foreseen. Even next year, with a lot of products, the customs rate will be zero. This is very important because the majority of foreign trade is almost 80%, essentially foreign trade with EU countries and CEFTA countries. There are also several important free trade agreements. It is Serbia's agreement with Russia, with Belarus, where indeed the list of products to which customs are paid is very small, limited. Finally, an agreement on free trade with Turkey is expected, where, of course, the list of products with a customs rate will again be very small and limited. Everything is being prepared, all it needs is for the Turkish parliament to ratify it. Kosovo is not a member of the World Trade Organisation, as someone mentioned. So for the sake of clarity and truth, you don't have to be a state if you want to be a member of the World Trade Organisation, but so on. (whatever it means, but there's a definition) - customs trade area. A sentence on diagonal cumulation means that only free trade agreements are foreseen. A significant number of discussions was dedicated to the so-called so-called “Distant ” of discussion. tax incentives and, as is usually the case in debates in parliament, tax incentives never enough. Some MPs criticise some of my arguments, which call for the best or dominant world or European practice, or economic theory, but I will continue to use it. If it should be described in the shortest possible terms what a good or best tax policy is, two definitions are possible. One - relatively low tax rate without tax exemptions, or another - standard tax rate with tax exemptions. I've talked a lot, and I want to repeat once again that we have practice -- the combination of one and the other. So we also have relatively low tax rates and a relatively generous tax exemption. Every day, applications, requests, new ideas are coming to the Ministry of Finance, which should encourage tax policy. I made a list of companies that are looking for it, and then I realized that it was best that there was no tax rate at all, that everything was freed. Why? Someone here mentioned whether I'm consulting or, about, whether it's asking the economy what tax rates or tax policies should be like. I don't think it's a good idea for businesses and businessmen to make laws, in terms of determining the tax rate and tax base, because businessmen really do expect a lot from the state - and cheap energy and cheap labour and the state to pay extra employees and good infrastructure and an efficient state, and to pay very little or be free of any tax. Where businesses are to be consulted is when it comes to reducing their working time to fill out the tax returns, or to paying the tax burden. What is a standard is for tax policy to be neutral, and state policy should not be run through tax policy, but through expenditure policy. My question to MPs is – do they really think that tax policy should affect the profitability and profit of different economic actors? The theory, of course, knows a lot of reasons against tax incentives. I will list only a few - direct loss of tax revenue, indirect loss, because you plan to eskiate tax payments, negative effects on tax administration, netransparency, high administration costs, etc. And when investors, those who need to invest, asked what it is that defines whether they would invest in one or that country, taxes were convincing in the last place. And not tax rates, but only the time you need to fill out the tax returns, or the time you need to pay for it all. As for the profit tax, which was the most discussed, I would like to remind you of how numerous these tax incentives are. We all know the tax rate is 10%, and I think only one country has a lower tax rate. So the tax rate is extremely low. Although extremely low, the law provides for a number of tax exemptions - tax exemptions for non-profit organisations, investment tax credits, reliefs for new employees, large investments, investments in undeveloped areas etc. When you put all that on paper, it turns out that the tax rate, what's effective in life, is only 5%. Nevertheless, investment was not high, and it best says how important tax incentives are for investment. I remind you, investors say 11 reasons before, and taxes are, and not tax rates, in the last place. I also remind you that according to the Doing Business study done by the World Bank, according to taxes, it is said, tax payments, Serbia is only 126th place, with most of the countries Serbia having much lower tax rates. Anyway, I think the changes in the corporate tax laws are in the right direction. The number of tax exemptions is lower, and on this basis the law will be more transparent and the cost of administering the bottle will be lower. In the end, I can say that I got at least one commendation for the book I wrote. I'd take this opportunity to thank you, and secondly, to say that maybe what I wanted to say to you wasn't well understood. When I was talking about models, I was talking about models in technical terms. The theory of growth raises two basic questions, which is why some countries are rich and others are poor, that is, why some countries grow faster than others. These questions are being tried to provide answers to models, as a set of equations. So you have different models, and when I say that some model is not good, that means that its simplicity, or it can be complexity, has failed to explain the differences in the level of development between countries, or the differences in growth rates. When we talk about the Harrod-Domar model, or the models of international financial institutions, and when you talk about the case I gave in the book, Zambia, I just want to say, in the case of Zambia, that just invest doesn't mean having a high economic growth as a result, because other than investment, there are a whole series of other factors that can be called efficiency, which is economic policy, environment, corruption, etc., a large number of different factors, which affect more growth than a mere amount of investment. Your inevitable theme is the IMF. I really don't want to be a lawyer here. And I said myself that often I don't agree with them either, but I still want to say a few sentences, especially because you mentioned Greece as an example. You said Greece wouldn't use help, or support, the IMF. I wouldn't say that. I'd say Greece doesn't have to use it. She does not have to use it because she is an EU member. You will say there are more EU members, so you will list the Baltic countries and Hungary, which have benefited from this assistance. Yes, there is, but don't forget that Greece is the country that has the euro. And that is why Greece will help the EU, not the IMF. So it is not her decision to want or not, but the European Monetary Union wants to help its member. Among us, the latest news is that EU countries, as well as the Monetary Union, are fewer countries, want to set up something called the 'European Monetary Fund'. Also, in the end, because I said I didn't want to be an IMF lawyer when you say bad examples, so you say -- Romania (although Romania's not such a bad example, but let's say Ukraine did), it wouldn't be bad to look at what it said in that Ukraine programme with the IMF, what were the basic elements of macroeconomic policy and whether Ukraine implemented what it had promised with the programme. I'll tell you it's not. Ukraine is an example of a country that runs a very irresponsible macroeconomic policy. But there are other examples, a whole set of Latin American countries. You know how well they went through this crisis. My favorite example is Chile, but not only Chile, there's Brazil, there's, you won't believe it, even Argentina, so Mexico, and Peru went great. These are all those countries that the IMF has helped in the foreign debt crisis and have learned with the help of the IMF that you will not essentially make a mistake if you run a conservative policy, or macroeconomic policy based on rules, and the rules are theoretically based. That's the kind of policy these countries have run. Anyway, thanks again for your criticism, understanding and friendly atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35820	I thank Mrs. Diana Dragutinović. For the replica, I suppose, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35821	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dragutinović, firstly, I express my respect and gratitude for being here with us all day and listening carefully to what we are talking about. Unfortunately, I think we end the debate in the same confusion as we started it, and for that part, you're responsible. I really don't know who we, as MPs, should trust -- the director of Srbiagas, who says his company is at minus 107m euros, or you, who claim that the year ended positively with a 10m-euro profit? I will read to you a statement by the director: "The loss of 'Srbijagas' in 2009 is about 107m euros, due to an unfavourable rate of dollars, unpaid claims and less gas deliveries. In reality, the losses are 9.3 billion dinars, but, if we consider the value of capital, taking over the Paracino glass factory, the methanol factories and the vinegar acid in Kikinda and Azotara in Panceva, our balance is around zero." Another problem, Mrs Dragutinovic, you are the finance minister and I cannot understand why you are avoiding the issue of this unnecessary cost for a public enterprise, which is the cost of introducing a mediator in gas business, which is "Yugorosgas". I was the vice president of the government who bought gas like your government does, but without that middleman. Jugorosgas is taking 30m euros from this country because of its transmission in the gas business. Next, you said that "Serbiagas" cost nothing to take over Azotara, the Metanol-Serpent combination in kickinda, the Glasslar in Paracino, and that it's all about 0.5%, if I understand you correctly, that it's recapitalisation, etc. But what's "Serbiagas" business? Is "Serbigas" some kind of social institution or company that needs to deal with profits? And what are the losses of these companies? As far as I can tell, they count here, practically, as part of the Serbians, at least in the director's statement, and they're not. Tomorrow, I guess, they should privatize and sell, and since we already know they've failed in the privatisation process, it's clear what the outcomes are. I also want to tell you something about your comparison of the gas storage facility. The European criterion is four months, four months of consumption is the EU's criterion, so many countries need to have stored gas, and you're telling us we need a year. We'd like to warn you that you signed an agreement with the Russian Federation that we don't even have the right to even strategic reserves to deposit in Banatski Dvor and that we're building another gas storage facility to have a place to leave it. (President: I thank you, time is up. Today Croatia signed South Stream 50:50%...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35822	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35823	I can tell you that I know what "Serbiagas" on behalf of the profits paid to the Republic budget at the end of December 2009. So he ended the year with a get. But what seems to me that maybe you didn't get it right is the difference between getting as a result of the income difference and the expenditure, and the cash flow, the difference between the inflows and the outflows. The problem of "Serbigas" is not income and expenditure, but inflows and outflows and their inconsistencies, meaning imbalance. Those over a certain period of time have far greater spills than inflows. This creates the need for their borrowing and therefore takes loans for liquid liquidity. So incomes and expenditures are one thing, it's like a balance of success, and cash flow is another thing, so it goes inflows and outflows. "Serbigas" has problems with inflows and spills, not revenues and expenditures. (Kedomir Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35824	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint principled search. We continue work tomorrow, Wednesday, March 3rd, 2010 at 10:00 p.m. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't notice, so I'm late to give you my word, even though the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief. Mrs Dragutinović, we're talking about loss. We can talk about cash flow and get into the debates that you want, but I want to remind you that you are the finance minister of the government who claimed that NIS finished the year with seven billion profits, and in the end we had to hire two auditors. After three audits, we came up with data that we were doing negative, with a minus three billion. I quote to you the statement by the director of "Srbigas": "The loss in 2009 is 107m euros". Also, another sentence, "No one's to blame for it." So, with a loss of 107m euros, we take over the failed companies, we go into insurance business, we have no answer to the question of how the money is being spent within the company and now, finally, we take extra credit to finance the company. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-03-02-0.u35826	It's obvious there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Kadomir Jovanovic: Article 104) If you are not satisfied with the explanation... But there's no harm done to Article 104. Thank you. So tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, everyone.
