ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45776	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Oliver Dulic, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, I have been invited to attend both Miladin Avramov and Bojan Đurić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, Aleksandar Vesić, Danica Bacanović and Nebojša Pokimica, Assistant Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Milan Dacic, Director of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, Borislav Stojkov, Director of the Spatial Planning Agency, Jelena Cvetkovic, Director of the Chemicals Agency and Momcilo Zivkovic, Director of the Environment Agency. We're continuing our work. We move on to a common principle search of the 4-10th agenda: PROPOSES OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE WEIGHTS, BIOCIDED PRODUCTS, STRATEGY ASSESSMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION, PROTECTION OF THE LIFE FUNDS, PROTECTION OF THE FUNDS, PROTECTION OF THE FUNDS, THE GOVERNMENT OF THE ASSESSMENT AND THE METEOROLOGY AND HYDROLOlogY OF THE OBJECTIVE DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the proposals of the law of the agenda under points 4-10, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours and shall be distributed as follows: the Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica parliamentary group - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; an ambassador group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. In accordance with Article 96(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every once every five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic, the PUPS parliamentary group, MP Milica Vojic Markovic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, MP Bajram Omeragic, the Manjin parliamentary group and the SRS MP, Radisa Ilic. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Principles on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act (10.14 hours). I actually read this part, we start working. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want a word? Yeah. ) I apologize, I have now received a notice that the authorised representative for the SPS - JS National MP Zoran Bortic. I give my word to Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have today a set of amendments and additions to environmental laws. In turn, I would like to present the basic ideas of changes and additions to each of these laws. A year and a half ago in this house, we adopted the Chemical Act and the Biocidal Products Act along with others, thus creating a whole new condition for the regulation of these areas. The aim of the adoption of these laws is to establish a single system of chemical management and biocidal products in RS territory, to ensure the protection of human health and the environment, as well as to improve the transport of chemicals and biocidal products with EU and other countries to improve the competitiveness of our economy. Also, this law provides the basis for the establishment of the Chemicals Agency as an independent, development, professional and regulatory organisation. The Chemical Agency has, since its founding, adopted a series of sublegal regulations surrounding the organisation of this area. It was also designed to build for the first time a database of chemicals and biocidal products in RS. In addition, an information panel has been formed to assist economic operators to implement these laws. In addition to assistance to economic operators, the Agency shall provide professional assistance to local self-government units, inspectors responsible for conducting inspection controls, as well as legal and physical persons, who intend to place substances, smiles or certain products on the EU market or other markets. In the course of the application of the law and the production of sublegal acts, some entities have problems with the application of certain provisions, and some legislative solutions have been proposed. These amendments have given clarifications to certain provisions, the harmonisation of laws with domestic regulations adopted in the meantime and the ease of business of business operators was carried out. The proposed amendments are in line with the relevant EU rules, and they essentially do not change the management policy of chemicals and biocidal products, which has previously been defined. A strategic environmental impact assessment law came into force in 2004. The first reason for changes and additions is to extend the scope of applying a strategic environmental impact assessment, in addition to plans, programmes and bases and on several planning documents such as sectoral strategies. Following the adoption of the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act, a large number of sectoral strategies, i.e. development documents adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which should, by their definition, be subject to strategic assessment. The second reason makes it necessary to comply with certain provisions of the relevant EU directives. The need for closer regulation of plans and programmes which are subject to a strategic assessment of the impact and plans and programmes for which a strategic environmental impact assessment may be required is the third reason for amending this law. The amendments and additions provide for the authority that the minister responsible for environmental protection tasks is closer to establishing lists of plans and programmes required to produce a strategic environmental impact assessment and lists of plans and programmes for which a strategic environmental impact assessment may be required. The need to bring the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act into line with sectoral laws which do not require public and interested bodies and organisations to participate in the process of adopting programmes and basics is the next reason for amending and supplementing this law. Finally, there is a need to do more precisely the process of developing a strategic environmental impact assessment and clearly defines the role of different actors in the process. This specifically concerns making a decision on making a strategic assessment, selecting a report on strategic assessment and supervision of law enforcement. Given the objectives that should be achieved by law and, above all, the integration of the basic principles of environmental protection in the process of preparing for the adoption of programmes and plans, it is particularly important to meet the conditions for the taking of preventive measures that have always been proven to be multiplely justified over a longer period of time. The law on noise protection in the environment is another law prepared in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules and which governs this area in a coherent and comprehensive manner. The law on noise protection in the environment aims to establish a uniform noise protection system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to establish and implement measures to prevent or reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health and the environment. The law lays down the limits of noise in the environment according to the character of the area, objects or sensitivity of the population, as well as the character of the source of noise. They further predict the production of strategic noise maps based on noise indicators and prescribed noise assessment methods in the environment. Strategic noise maps form the basis for the adoption of action plans to prevent and reduce noise exposure. At the very least, the law provides public access to information on noise and the adverse effects of noise in the environment. During the application of the law, it was noted that the competences between noise protection entities were not clearly distinguished, which led to problems in the application of the law, so these changes achieved a clear distinction of competence, particularly in the work concerning the production of strategic maps of noise and the production of action plans. This defines the competences of the AP, i.e. the units of local self-government for the production of strategic maps of noise and action plans, since for the purposes of the single integrated information system, this work is primarily on the Environment Agency, which will, in collaboration with the abovementioned entities, develop strategic noise and action plans. Amendments and additions to the law have resolved the role of the Environment Protection Agency, as well as the role of other protection entities in creating strategic noise maps. In addition, the list of entities for which strategic maps are drawn is in line with the list of objects from the EU's positive legislation in this area. By amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, most procedures in the production and adoption of documents and acts on nature protection are simplified and shortened. The reasons for the free assessment of the interpretation of legal solutions by the Authority and institutions shall be eliminated or reduced to a minimum. Conflicts between stakeholders, including more effective settlement of compensation issues for the restriction of rights of use and the damage caused by protected species, are being reduced and easier to resolve. The changes and additions are better regulated by technical biological protection measures. The powers and responsibilities of the managers of protected areas are strengthened, the objectives of the funds from certain sources of funding are determined closer and the collection system for the use of protected areas is strengthened. Also, amendments and additions to the Law make our system of nature protection at the same time adapts and more successfully prepares for the application of relevant EU rules in the field of nature protection: the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. Amendments to the Law do not introduce changes to the current rights, conditions and way of using natural resources, except in the area of ecologically significant areas, which will be established as the predecessor of the "Natura 2000" European ecological network, which the Republic of Serbia must establish and organise in its territory until accession to the EU. In ecologically significant areas and Natura 2000 areas, bans and restrictions are established for programmes, plans, projects, works and activities with a significant adverse impact on certain habitats and populations of wild plants and animals. As a result, the concept of an acceptance assessment, whose implementation starts in two years, will be used after establishing the limit of ecologically significant areas. Given that the acceptance assessment is carried out in the context of the strategic environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessment procedures, which are fully regulated and in practice stalkered, the acceptance assessment will not have a significant impact on the cost increase and extension of the deadlines. Also, no new fees are introduced, and the maximum amounts are also other essential elements of the compensation for the use of protected areas covered by the Government, which was now in the management's jurisdiction. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act introduces an assessment of the acceptability that is in line with the obligations of the Habitats Directive and the EU Birds Directive, for plans, bases, programmes, projects, works and activities in nature, whose implementation may have a significant impact on the objectives of conservation and integrity of the ecological network. In addition, it is more precise to define the procedure for issuing an act on the conditions of nature protection in the process of adopting programme plans and bases, as well as in the process of issuing appropriate permits, so as to eliminate legal uncertainty, which has existed in the previous practice. This is particularly achieved by prescribing the possibility of an appeal to an act on the conditions of nature protection in order to enable two-stageness in the regulation of conditions and measures of nature protection, thus improving the right to legal protection in relation to the existing situation. Amendments to the Law provide for the realisation of projects and activities which are found to have a public interest which is more difficult than the interest of preserving a specific ecologically significant area, thus ensuring sustainable use of natural resources. In particular, in the process of assessing acceptability, public participation, which will be governed by a regulation adopted by the Government. The amendments to the law are also more precisely defined protection regimes in protected areas, by taxing the activities and works that cannot be carried out in individual zones, which creates greater legal certainty for potential investors. The proposed amendments introduce a three-stage protection regime in protected areas, with precisely established works and activities that are prohibited, or restricted, and provide for a provision authorising the Government to ensure closer regulation of protection regimes, procedures and how they are determined and implemented. Public participation is also foreseen in the adoption of acts on the establishment of protected areas and the adoption of their plans by law management. These amendments eliminate so far inaccuracies in the law which provided opportunities for individual institutions and bodies, in one discretionary procedure and at various levels of decision-making, to determine what can be done in which area, or what is prohibited. In addition, a clearer definition is made of the manager's obligations and overcomes the problem of an unequal charge practice for the use of the protected area, by establishing common compensation elements for the use of the protected area by the Government. The reasons for proposing amendments and supplementing the Waste Management Act are to ensure the consistency of certain legal solutions with EU rules on waste management, in particular in the assessment of environmental impacts and integrated environmental pollution prevention and control, as regards waste management. The objectives of amending and supplementing this law are: to fill the gap with regard to the coverage of existing facilities, which are subject to an integrated authorisation under the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environment, by issuing waste management permits in the period of obtaining an integrated authorisation, i.e. until 2015, to entrust certain competences to municipalities with regard to the granting of authorisations for the treatment and disposal of inert and non-hazard waste, to ensure efficient management of waste in the territory of two or more units of local self-government which jointly provide and implement waste management. The aim is also to align the provisions of the laws relating to documentation submitted with the application for the authorisation of storage, treatment and disposal of waste with the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which includes the act of the body on the release from the obligation to make environmental impact assessments. One of the objectives is to specify the responsibility of the Environmental Protection Agency in the area of the establishment and management of the waste database for the purpose of reporting to the Ministry of Waste Management in accordance with the international commitments undertaken. The aim is also to specify the conditions to be met by a qualified person responsible for the professional work of waste management, and to define the types of mobile facilities for which the authorisation for the treatment of waste is granted. It is also important to specify cases where no authorisation is granted in accordance with the law and to define more precisely the obligations of the collector, or the carrier when applying for authorisation. One of the objectives of the amendments and complements is to ensure a more efficient control procedure for the cross-border movement of hazardous waste, as established by approved international contracts and EU regulations, as well as to strengthen and expand trusted businesses in the field of inspection control of the collection, transport, storage, treatment and disposal of inert and hazardous waste in the territory of the unit of local self-government. One of the last objectives of this law is to extend the authority of environmental inspectors and extend the liability of the responsible person to the public authority holder. For the finale, I would like to present to you also the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. The RS constitution found that it regulates and provides for sustainable development and a system of protection and promotion of the environment, to collect statistics and other data of general interest, to monitor, analyse and predict the state of time, climate and water in order to prevent the life of people and material goods due to the stychical functioning of atmospheric and hydrological disasters and disasters. In this context there are also affairs of meteorological and hydrological activity. The existing meteorological and hydrological activities were arranged by the Federal Law on Meteorological and Hydrometeorological Affairs of interest for the entire country from 1990 and it is still in force. In addition to this law, some meteorological and hydrological affairs, competences and functions are governed by other domestic laws, but also by international conventions, of which the World Meteorological Organisation Convention is most important, as well as by EU regulations, and in particular by directives relating to air and water quality monitoring, flood risk management assessment and information exchange of pollutants in ambient air and water. With all this in mind, there are reasons for the adoption of a new laws on meteorological and hydrological activity, and in order to comply with domestic and international regulations and more effectively carry out functions and tasks of the state hydrometeorological service. By passing laws on meteorological and hydrological activity, a law adopted in 1990 would be put out of force. This law, respecting the international principles on which meteorological and hydrological activity rests, allows for comprehensive regulation of time monitoring and research, climate and water. This aims to increase the safety of human life and protect material goods from the stychial functioning of meteorological and hydrological elemental disasters, more rational use of favourable weather and climate conditions and available water resources, as well as more efficient air and water protection than pollution. Finally, we stress that the Law on Hydrological and Meteorological Action also provides for a new law on the repression of the city, so that the area of protection against the city, as a elemental disaster, is settled in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that the issue of financing these activities is addressed in an adequate manner. The adoption of this law would also provide for a legal basis for the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, in accordance with international contracts, to carry out the necessary procedures for the introduction of compensation for services provided in the area of air meteorology and meteorological support to civil aviation, which constitute revenue for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to vote for these laws and allow for a solution to the daily open issues that have emerged in the implementation of laws that define the protection of our environment and to support the process of European integration by voting for these laws, also with the implementation of new legislation and the EU directive.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45778	I ask the MPs of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration, do they want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are eight laws before us that are united in this ecological set. One year and more days ago, a set of laws were passed in the field of environmental protection, whose changes and additions are today ahead of us. Yesterday we heard from Mr. Minister that some changes and additions were necessary so that certain laws could be implemented. However, the fact is that despite the changes in individual members, many others who are not being implemented in the Republic of Serbia have remained, and these are those who have largely committed units of local self-government, but have not been fulfilled for two reasons, above all, due to lack of staff and lack of funds. You then referred to the European Commission's directives and said it was drawn in their recommendations and that Serbia must comply with such legal solutions. However, we now see, on the basis of these amendments and additions, that these directives can, however, be modified in some ways, changed, as in several laws you are referring to the Directives of 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, which, I suppose, were the basis for making these laws. On the Committee on Environmental Protection, we heard from the government's representatives that in this way you were doing some part of the work to help municipalities and cities, then entrepreneurs, legal persons, i.e. those who are unable to comply with what you have prescribed by law, which means that the previous legal solutions were unrealistic, and that is indeed the case, according to the 2009 report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia, and this will be likely in the following year. Where it writes, for example, you say yourself, as regards waste disposal, that there is no systematic organised collection and sorting of waste recycling in the Republic of Serbia, then there is no location for the disposal of hazardous waste or authorised facilities, or operators who have the authorisation of competent authorities for the treatment of hazardous waste, etc. Mr Minister, while we are already at the facility, we should ask ourselves why it is, why projects are forced to be pushed into certain local self-governments, and that standards are broken precisely by those directives, the European Commission's views that prescribe criteria for the construction of some dump or facility and where the distance from the settlement is ignored, from schools, from oranics, underground waters, the proximity of natural goods, cultural and historical monuments, water streams, etc. Let's take the latest example of Cicicov. You found one, I would say, to an undeveloped poor municipality, whose main resource is agriculture, not to say you donate a waste treatment plant and now it doesn't matter what the citizens say, nor the standards and criteria of the EU, whether the municipal government will raise the majority to vote for such a thing. However, it is important that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as I would say, has drowned the stolen Mercedes of the newest class to the president of the municipality of Cicevic to drive around the white world. Unfortunately, we were embarrassed in Slovenia. That car was taken because it was stolen. As he is owned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not clear to anyone. When the president of the municipality of Cicevic, Zlatan Krkic convinces his fellow citizens by a crucial argument that they are not afraid of the facility, he said, "Well, such a facility is located in the center of Vienna." The question immediately raises the question why does such a facility not be made in New Belgrade or in addition to Subotica itself, so that you show on a personal case the citizens of Serbia, and those of Sapac, and those of Divostina near Kragujevac, and those of Ćuprija, and those of Krnjevo, and those of Ćivac that it is all harmless and harmless? We in Serbia, in this House, have to pass laws that will be applied and that will improve all spheres of life and thus the environment. I think you, too, Mr. Minister, agree with that. However, all the time you convince us, when I say I also think of your fellow ministers, that the most important thing is that a large number of 'European laws and conventions' are adopted quickly here, only to meet the obligation before the European commissioners to, behold, Serbia is in some way adapting, or adapting its EU legislation. I would like to read to you the latest headline in the German newspaper "The Wall of Caitung" as of today, which says: "The EU makes a mistake when it puts Serbia into the appearance of a reception option... ', and in the following text: 'Serbia will, in the long run, arrive in the EU, but only after it and its neighbours and its own neighbours live in peace, when it extradites its war criminals and becomes a democratic and legal state. "and that includes Kosovo's recognition. The essence of all these laws that are passed does not matter, that they are inapplicable in many segments does not mean anything to anyone. For most local self-governments, certain provisions of environmental laws are, believe me, from personal knowledge, a real mental noun. Many have not even heard of individual action plans, strategic assessments, integrated permits and whatnot. Would you perhaps say that, for example, Bulgarians, Romanians, Hungarians or EU candidates - Croats, Macedonians, Turks in front of us, that they have implemented these standards, that they manage waste better than us, that they have more perfect monitoring, that they have made action plans for municipalities? Let's just look at the latest case from Hungary – the poison mud submerged two villages, the tanks were destroyed. I don't know how it missed the Europeanised Hungarian legislation. It is only proof to you from the executive authority that there is no political will in the EU for Serbia's membership and that it is deliberately difficult to condition it with everything and everything. When it comes to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, for example, there are no such highly blackmailing standards, as their EU accession is actually a strategic and political issue for NATO. To pass a law, which cannot essentially be implemented, is a waste of both time and resources. Take, for example. The law on packaging and packaging waste, which is not in this set, I believe that it is not implemented in 70% of cases. Or, for example, the Animal Wellbeing Act, which is also not in this set, which only takes place in some explicit situations, when some video reaches the "Yu-Tub" or when some image of animal experience comes into the paper. Today the question arises – where are the stray dogs' asylums? What about the slaughter of cattle that you've forbidden by law and prescribed a high sentence? Did you give any monetary measure under this law? It's just not possible. That would mean, in a way, a bureaucratic war with all citizens in Serbia. Just to give an example, after the adoption of the Animal Welfare Act, where it is beautifully and systematically quoted how stray dogs are taken care of, then shelters, asylums. It happened here in front of the Parliament itself that the stray dogs of the Maltene were bit by our colleague, the folk emissary, Mrs. Jelena Trivan. Why hasn't local self-government fulfilled its legal obligations to prevent such a thing? It's not like they don't have the funds and they don't have the money. Do you know that in many municipalities, workers in municipal companies have no place to change, where to eat, and you ask them and their businesses to provide dog shelters, to chase stray dogs, I would say, a wooden rod and a noose on the streets, which they will never catch. That's the way it is with other laws that are being considered here today. As regards certain laws, I will refer to some, with the note that we have submitted as an SRS parliamentary group a number of amendments exclusively with the aim of implementing certain legal provisions, and in practice, which has not been the case so far. For example, in the Waste Management Act, you admitted that there are certain problems in implementing this law by units of local self-government. In Article 21, we have a specific situation where two or more units of local self-government jointly implement waste management. They establish an agreement with each other, however, unfortunately, in most cases, falls into some stalemate and because of ignorance, and due to inadequate conditions, lack of personnel, due to vanity, due to quarrels, etc. The government is now changing this Article 21 instead of cutting off that stalemate position and making its own appointment and appointment of a leading body directly from the ministry, again focusing on joint waste management with those who have proved incompetent. The funds already identified for this purpose by the local self-government budget would be used by the government, all in the interest of quality waste management. This includes dumps, recyclings, waste treatment plants, etc. In the Chemical Act, for example, in Article 6 of the basic law, we believe that it is the ministry's task, not the agency, to prescribe the method of accounting, the height and the payment of the fees set out in this law. Next to this logic, Serbia's budget should then be created by agencies, not ministries, especially the finance ministry, as significant funds flow into the budget via taxis and fees. Also, we believe that Article 34 of this chemical law allows discrimination between certain suppliers of dangerous chemicals, since it is obvious that some will not be obliged to hire a chemical counselor. That's why we suggested erasing this member. Because of the time, I'm going to mention a few more laws, and some of them are going to talk more extensively in the principle debate and my colleagues, since it's a lot of law, and by math, it turns out that every law can be talked about for two and a half minutes. Amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act have caused major reactions, but also public controversy, particularly disputed members 13 and 28. The bill, relating to protected natural goods and to which the SRS also submitted amendments with the proposal to delete the two members. I will briefly comment on a member of the 55th amendment and the addition of this law that says that Natura 2000 will include our protected natural resources, as well as specific ecological areas, and that we can count the national parks that will become part of this European ecological network. What features "Natura 2000" are very rigorous requirements and criteria in the implementation of the prescribed protection measures. I suggest to you, Mr Minister, that you inform your friends from Europe who strongly recommend EU directives and Natura 2000 that our protected natural resources, our national parks must first pass a very expensive treatment for which they are and how well-deserved the countries of the EU are. The word is, for example, about Fruška Gora, Tara, Kopalnik, Zasavica and many other significant natural goods and treasures of this country, which have been filled with tons and tons of uranium bombs, just by aircraft from some EU countries, which have contributed to the contamination of large areas of land, water, plant and animal life. Let Natura 2000 from the EU and the EU themselves solve the bag, clean up what they polluted in 1999, so that we, with our natural beauty, stand side by side with their Alps, the Pyrenees, Schwarzvald, Valdizer, etc. I hope so, Mr. Minister, that you agree, although I don't think it's right that they planted uranium bombs ten years ago. Finally, I would refer to the Law on Strategic Impact Assessment of the Environment, but I would also touch on some other projects concerning the conservation of the environment, as well as to the public of certain projects, given the impression that both the Government and the Ministry behave in some situations extremely contradictoryly and undefinedly. For example, construction of a famous refinery in Smederev. I will easily prove this to you, since I have before me certain documents with specific dates, as well as copies from the daily press with your statements, Mr. Minister, which require clarification from us to the MPs, the public of Serbia, and especially to the citizens of Smederev. On September 17th, the Environmental Protection Committee, on the SRS initiative, sent you a memo to obtain information on the construction of a refinery for the processing of crude oil in Smederev's capacity of 100,000 barrels a day. However, your department with a stamp and your name responds that by that date, no request has been received for an act to be issued regarding the construction of a modern refinery from the environmental point of view. This implies that you as a ministry have no knowledge of this whole project that has been gathering public attention in Serbia for several months. Of course, I didn't think you could hide anything from the citizens of Serbia, I didn't think you had any concrete knowledge of all this. However, by searching the press on this subject, I find in "The Voice of the Public" of 21.08.2010, Mr. Minister, your statement, entitled "Building a refinery in Smederev important for the state," where you say, "The Mediterranean can be calm, because the factory that is being built will be the same intensity, in terms of environmental impact and products that are released into the environment, such as any other modern refinery today in Europe. '" Mr. Minister, you had some knowledge of the project itself, about the idea of building a refinery. Now I ask you a question – why is this knowledge of yours, and this is the date of August 21st, you have not sent and presented to the MPs and members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, since we sent you a letter on September 17th sending you this reply? You gave the board incomplete information. To make things even more complicated, your ministry is under the regulation of September 10th, and I also own this regulation here, and as familiar with this whole project, since this regulation refers to the spatial plan of the industrial zone, the sector northeast in Smedereva. Countless times are mentioned in this plan, where details about the construction of the refinery are also presented, such as access roads, railways, electricity supply, capacity, parcels, costs etc. Mr. Minister, you're promoting the project you're responsible for, and you have no knowledge of anything like that, and that's one. Ten. 2010 I already said that 21. 8. you make a statement to the media in which you present details of the refinery, and as the crown of all your ministry, which responded negatively to the Assembly Committee, participates in the adoption of the Government's regulation on the refinery on 10 September 2010. What's this supposed to mean, Mr. Minister? That you hide the truth from the National Assembly, from the MPs, from the citizens of Serbia? Speaking of the cost of construction, Mr. Minister, in this Serbian government regulation, which you didn't know about, and you participated in its construction, which you forgot to mention in your response to the Committee, on page 35. The "officer official" of September 21st appears to be a summary recapitulation of the necessary investments for the construction of the refinery, the capacity of 100,000 barrels a day, of 200m and 370m euros, although the public has speculated on the price of 250m euros. Mr. Minister, for your information, you should know, if someone has already suggested to you that they will make a refinery for 250 million dollars capacity of 100,000 barrels, it would be my turn to pass on to you how much it costs to build a refinery of that capacity in the world, based on practical examples. For example, the Brazilian company for the refinery, Petrobras, which has the same capacity of 100 barrels a day, plans to invest $975 million, only in modernising the refinery on the Japanese island of Okinawa. The company Saudi Aramco and the French Total for $9.6 billion will build a 400 thousand barrel refinery a day, and if we divide it into 100 thousand barrels a day, it will cost two billion dollars a day. The third example is Russia's Verubezneft, which will invest a billion euros in the reconstruction of existing refineries in Republika Srpska. So the question is, how can someone create a new modern refinery for funds that are ten times less than the amount needed to build any refinery around the world?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45780	Sinisha Stamenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45781	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, respected associates, the short term of application of the Chemical Law has seen certain disagreements between legal solutions and practices in the making of chemicals. We are aware of the fact that a large number of sublegal regulations were first created from the Chemical Law, and then a report on the compliance of our laws with the provisions of all EU laws on chemicals. We are aware of the fact that the Chemical Law has created a need, primarily business entities and organisations that work directly with chemicals, that some problems with the application of the law are solved, so an urgent clarification of certain provisions of the law and the removal of non-compliant provisions that need to facilitate future application of the law, and according to our criteria and according to EU criteria. This creates closer criteria for how to calculate the amount of payment fees for data verification and all chemical files. The fact is that these changes create preconditions to evenly deploy all financial burdens on economic, service and commercial entities on the basis of fees. Changes create conditions that the Government, which otherwise gives consent to sublegal regulations, must now necessarily prescribe fees whose height will depend solely on the relationship between the number of chemicals and the amount of chemicals, which are entered in the chemical register, so that nominal values, the number of chemicals and the quantity, are now falling, and thus the fees paid by a legal person are grouped. It is very important to further protect consumers who, through these amendments and additions to the Law, will be even more quality, more rigorous and responsible against possible active failures, which could endanger groups, space, nature, animals and people in RS territory. These amendments fully align the provisions of the Chemical Act with the Consumer Protection Act, published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. 79 from 2005. Amendments and additions to the Law allow economic operators to deliver a safety report to the Serbian-language agency, saving both time and resources related to the application of the law in English. Amendments and additions to the Law have sparked significant controversy over the issue of determining chemical advisers, which has become the obligation of suppliers of dangerous chemicals and matter. The PUPS Group considers that it is not good that the exceptions to that rule, which relate to a particular type, sector and area of activity, are envisaged. We are afraid that this will expose both suppliers and manufacturers and chemical advisers to a more difficult way of doing business, with a higher risk for animals and humans compared to the previous solution. We support a part of the law in which it is explicitly imposed on a foreign producer to provide the Agency with information that represents a business or industrial secret, i.e. strictly confidential data instead of an importer, who has so far had that obligation, with the Agency obliged to keep that information. This will help importers to obtain more responsibly the necessary data on the integrity or harmfulness of certain chemicals, which is extremely important for us and our citizens. In due time, as a group, we have submitted an amendment not to allow a foreign producer to sign his chemicals into our register through a representative or representative and we have warned that the operations of foreign persons are governed by other regulations. However, it is now an opportunity for our amendment to become an integral part of this law and regulate this issue. The fact is, with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, no fundamental solutions to the law that we have recently adopted are changed. For this reason, we today support amendments and additions to the Law, which serve to specify the regulations implemented by the European Chemicals Agency and the whole world, and so do we. The degree of compliance of our regulations with EU rules is satisfactory. Uncoordinated obligations are determined and removed by this law, which also achieves the most important objective of the basic law, which is to establish, maintain and improve a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, while ensuring the highest level of protection of human and animal health, as well as the environment. In voting day, we will uphold this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is sufficient to look at the declaration of compliance of the rules on biocidal products with EU rules on biocidal products, in order to see the need to start by amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act as soon as possible. It can be immediately established that the regulatory content of the rules, both the transitional Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the provisions on the harmonisation of EU and Serbian legislation, is not in line with one part of the primary rights, secondary and direct implementation of the right to production, transport and working with biocidal products in our country. The amendments and additions to this law do not fundamentally change our policy in the management of biocidal products. The classification of biocidal products in the relevant species, as well as the obligation to establish a precise list, clearly defined and defined biocidal products, is the essential difference between the basic law and these amendments. We must be aware that open issues, which are regulated by this amendment to the law, have been opened in the right way and that they do not fall within the category of legal, and at least political issues, but require special expert studies and research into all available data prescribed by these amendments, by basic law and by EU regulations. We must commend the Ministry for not creating a new obligation to the economic operators to apply the law, but rather giving them a confidential job so that they can carry out their own research and come to an answer, in a faster and more efficient way of co-operation with the agency, for the sake of production, verification and transport of biocidal products. We support the definition to fully clarify the process of placing a biocidal product on the market in addition to the law, i.e. to clearly define each producer and importer who puts the biocidal product on the market, with the appropriate definition, with a solution on the entry in the provisional list for the delivery of technical files on the product. With its active participation in the examination of all amendments to the law, and in particular of Article 33 of the basic law, the PUPS Group took the view that, because of its complexity and specificity in all the provisions on restrictions and prohibitions of the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, any ambiguity must be removed and the maximum responsibility of all participants in the production and handling of biocidal products must be achieved. We believe that the most important thing is that the holder of a solution for the entry of a biocidal product must comply with all the conditions for the placing on the market of a biocidal product, to correctly mark the product and to achieve all the safe conditions of its use...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45782	Mr. MP, I apologize to you, just one piece of information to give so the board of directors can continue their work. You have received the resignation of Snezana Stojanović Plassic, the honourable MPs, at the post of MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly finds that before the term of office ended, Snezana Stojanovic Plavsic, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia – Boris Tadic, resigned on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. Thank you. Excuse me and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45783	As a parliamentary group, we demand the maximum responsibility of all participants in the procedures with biocidal products, from producers via traffic and users to the Agency and the normal state in order to preserve human and animal health. In this regard, in the voting day, we will support the improvement of the basic law on biocidal products of these systemic, technical, professional and technological changes and additions. The Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, which was adopted in 2004, believes that the PUPS Group has repeatedly been exposed to new regulation of conditions, methods and procedures for assessing the impact of certain plans and programmes on the environment. Ensuring environmental and development protection was carried out by integrating the basic principles of environmental protection into solutions through the preparation and adoption of plans. Amendments and additions to the basic law propose the regulation of the obligation to carry out a strategic impact assessment for all plans and programmes and bases in the field of spatial and urban planning, but also for the use of land, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy, transport industries, etc. It is particularly good that consumers, waste managers, water managers, telecommunications managers, tourism, as well as institutions to preserve wild flora and fauna habitats are bound to include regulations which accurately determine the environmental impact assessment in all future acts approved by development projects. It is good that these amendments and additions of the Law are notified and binding on all participants in the strategic environmental impact assessment of all stages of the assessment they have to apply. It is also good that we commit to the preparatory phase, the appearance of the strategic assessment report, the report-making process, the decision-making process with all the interested authorities and public institutions, and that through this means we get a truly responsible and competent assessment that allows for the further procedure of designing the most important programmes of our country's development in all areas and activities. We believe that by amending and supplementing the Law, an extension of the scope of the strategic environmental impact assessment must be carried out, not only on basic plans, but on the basis and programmes from several planning documents, such as sectoral strategies. We are assessing that these solutions must now be fully defined, defined and presented with the need to comply with the basic law with all the provisions of Directive 2001/42 of the European Union. We support the need to comply with the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment with all sectoral laws, which do not require public and interested bodies to participate in the process of adopting new plans, new programmes and regulated foundations. We consider it necessary to more precisely regulate the process of creating environmental impacts. It is clear that it is also necessary to define the role of all different actors in the process of developing strategic foundations. However, the PUPS parliamentary group argues that the decision to make a strategic assessment, and in particular to draw up a report on the assessment, as well as the supervision of law enforcement, is to simplify the whole process and, above all, publicly publish, so that all interested people have an equal starting position in getting a job on this exceptional task. We support the obligation to educate independent and expert committees to assess the report on strategic assessment. We ask the legislator to establish properly the tasks of the commission, its composition and way of working, especially in the light of the fact that funds are provided from the budget for the Commission's work. In addition, we think that amendments and additions to the Law need to properly resolve the availability of information on strategic assessment, the results of the involvement of interested authorities and the organisation of our country in the event of a cross-border environmental impact, which has been demonstrated by the latest ecological developments. We believe that amendments and additions to the Law must contain a provision of mandatory compliance of environmental impact assessment with the assessment of the surrounding environments, which must be taken into account the hierarchical levels of certain areas of the environment. In voting day, we will support this law and amendments and additions to this law. Under the noise protection law, the PUPS parliamentary group came from both the government and the ministry, as well as all political groups in the Serbian parliament, contributing significantly to the adoption of the basic system law on noise protection in the environment of the Republic of Serbia. It must be acknowledged that the basic law has implemented the establishment, maintenance and improvement of a single system of response in the entire territory of our country. The basic law has conducted the demarcation of competence, and above all in the work concerning the production of strategic noise maps, as well as the development of action plans for control, reduction and complete prevention of noise. However, in a relatively short application of this law, there has been a mandatory process of harmonising domestic legislation with European Union regulations, which have been fully regulated by this area for a long time, significantly before us. Amendments and additions to the Law clarify the competences of noise protection entities, both in the field of recording and drawing strategic maps and in the scope of action plans to prevent it. The assessment of the compliance of our regulations with European Community rules imposes an obligation on us to delete the competences of the AP, i.e. the unit of local self-government for the production of strategic maps or action plans, and this obligation is now a unique, integrated obligation of the Environment Protection Agency, i.e. the Republic of Serbia. This system-adjusted law is very important for the lives and work of our citizens, as its solutions inevitably prevent any further exposure to adverse noise effects in places where these exposure levels threaten the environment and human health. The unique functional system of noise monitoring and control, as well as maintaining the existing quality of noise, is placed in a strict function of protective measures and preventing and reducing the exposure of our citizens to adverse effects. All measures are acceptable to us from action plans against noise in the environment for air, road and rail traffic, as well as measures to protect against excessive noise due to economic, industrial, tourist or other activities. It is acceptable to propose to monitor noise with systematic measurement, evaluation and budgets of certain noise indicators in accordance with this law, as it results in unique and direct measures that actively suppress excessive noise. The PUPS parliamentary group will support, in voting day, amendments to this law. The Nature Protection Act, as a law that is now being laid down by changes and additions, was adopted in 2009, effectively edits and repairs a comprehensive system of protection of the nature of the Republic of Serbia. In the short period of implementation of the basic Nature Protection Act, certain inaccuracies of the concepts, documents and various acts and, in particular, the procedures through which nature protection is carried out have been carried out. Some powers and obligations of protection entities, as well as relations between nature protection institutions, the protection regime and the management system, and the financing of protected areas, have shown a series of inconsistencies and a series of discrepancies with international factors identified in the basic project "Natura 2000", which other colleagues also mentioned. I think that these amendments and additions to the law all procedures in the making and adoption of documents and acts on the protection of nature are simplified and reduced, and they will cost less because they eliminate the reasons for interpreting legal solutions by authorities and institutions, such as the Institute for the Protection of Nature of Serbia and others, because they are actually generators of making the planned processes more difficult and limiting the factor for the rapid and effective application of the law. In the adoption of the basic law, we have advocated amendments to a more effective solution to the compensation issue for the use of natural resources, to remove the damage caused by protected species. We have advocated better measures of technical and biological protection, stronger rights and greater powers for users to protect nature, but also for greater responsibility in the system of nature protection by timely adaptation to EU rules, which is clearly missing during the observed period. The PUPS Group believes that we now need to take advantage of the opportunity, and that these changes and additions to the law achieve competence for the successful preservation and sustainable use of natural values, to strengthen social consensus and responsibility for nature, as well as for the full development of the awareness of all our citizens as basic holders of environmental responsibility and sustainable socio-economic development. In the day of voting, we will support amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. Finally, the Waste Management Act also earned a special place in this set of laws in the field of nature protection, especially with regard to the latest environmental waste developments. We need to remind ourselves that the Waste Management Act, which we have recently received, has properly classified the types of waste, that it has implemented waste management planning, that certain waste management facilities have been identified, that the responsibilities and obligations in the management are the same, that specific flows of hazardous waste are applied, that the conditions and procedure for issuing licences, that the cross-border movement of waste has been regulated, that the funding of waste management has been determined, and that other issues related to waste management have been identified. In the meantime, however, a mandatory harmonisation of the provisions of our law with the provisions of the EU Directive has been carried out, which, when discrepancies are established and are removed as soon as possible from these amendments and additions to the law. First of all, we want to remind ourselves that these changes are now proposing to entrust certain competences to municipalities, so it goes back, to issue permits for treatment and disposal of hazardous waste. We consider it a good definition to ensure efficient waste management in the territory of two or more local self-government units, if properly arranged. The PUPS Group considers that many provisions of the law relating to documentation are now in line and that the responsibilities of the Environment Protection Agency and all conditions of qualified persons for the operation and management of waste are fully specified, as well as the issue of mobile waste treatment facilities. In particular, we support the precision of defining the obligations of collectors, carriers and waste processors, but also the extension of the powers of environmental inspectors. We believe that the amendments and additions of the Waste Management Act will lead to the completion of an important system law and the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. The Weather and Hydrological Action Act, which is in this set of laws, which deal with changes and additions to basic laws, proposes that the existing law, which was passed back in 1990, be amended and complemented by the most important provisions agreed with the EU. This law has been successfully or less successful, many other laws, from the Air Traffic Act, to the Emergency Law to the Law on State Time and Catastrophe. A huge number of directives, laws and regulations stemming from legal acts and obligations on meteorological and hydrological affairs of interest for all of Europe, especially for Serbia, should be added to all of this. Harmonisation of domestics with international regulations, but also more effective in carrying out the functions and tasks of the state hydrometeorological service, is a imposed and mandatory need, both for our country and for relevant international, regional and world organisations. We remind you that the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at its 22nd session, due to the suppression of the city and the adverse consequences of the sudden melting of snow, demanded that this law be found in the assembly procedure as soon as possible, as we do today. It is now possible to adopt, with all international principles, the law on new grounds and in a comprehensive way, regulate the monitoring and research of time, monitoring climate and water, as well as timely proposing measures for the safe safety of human life and the protection of material goods from the surgical functioning of meteorological and hydrological disasters and disasters. The PUPS Group believes that this law achieves rational use of pre-known and recorded climate and weather conditions, as well as available water resources for efficient agriculture, tourism and numerous other activities. We support the organisation and creation of the national hydrometeorological service of Serbia as a complex hydrometeorological system with all parts of the state hydrometeorological observation service, with a hydrometeorological computer and telecommunications system, with an analytical and prognostic operating system, with properly installed air and water monitoring programmes, with air quality monitoring programs, with a unique and protected meteorological and hydrological data fund and weather forecast information, with information on climate, water and air and water quality. The PUPS parliamentary group supports the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Action, with the adoption of a number of amendments that will only improve the technical solutions set out in the proposal, and in the day of voting will vote for their adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45784	MP Bajram Omeragic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45785	The Honorable Presidency, Honorable Minister Dulic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will vote in favour of this law, because by reading it, we have come to the conclusion that this law is approaching the EU and we will vote in favour of this set of laws that is on the agenda. The Bosniak list wants to point to a few data, facts and to point to a policy led towards the Sandzak region in the area of environmental protection, which has the effect of employment, i.e. unemployment, that is, the development of tourism and the impact on economic events. I'd like to discuss amendments to the chemical law. I want to pass on what the New Market businessmen told me to the government. We're famous for the textile industry and we're producers of jeans, and we're producing gin through what's called the so-called gin. Stonestones pollute the environment, and ministry representatives have repeatedly sought solutions through local self-government and with manufacturers. While there was no economic crisis, we tried to through favourable loans, through ways that our people are in debt, find a solution to this problem that burdens even the price of our product, because, as you know, the country has not done much to protect us from unfair competition from China for many years. The containers that we're re-tasting, we've simply destroyed the production of shoes and textiles in our country. Let me remind you, there were about 300,000 people living in this country with textiles and shoes. I suggest that the government do something that would be positive, stop shutting down the industrial facilities in the New Market that produce gins, that the government anticipates in the budget and fund the purifiers and thus help stop the workers from firing from these productions. To inform you, already three New Market firms have moved to work around Beijing, because currently China provides better conditions for the development of industry than we do with this policy. A new economic development strategy has been published these days. One point, for which our Prime Minister Cvetkovic stressed is that it is the most important, is re-industrialisation. So we're closing down existing plants in Novi Pazar, we're giving, through the Development Fund, loans to new manufacturers, and those who have known how, which have been working for 25 years, they're shutting down for production costs that they have because of these purifiers and so on. So, I ask the Government, it won't be the first or last time that intervention from the budget helps them, no less than we did in Bora, as we gave 400 million Kragujevac, so I don't count where we all gave budget funds to attract foreign investors. I'll talk about it a little later, when I talk about the Stawley mine. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I have done so many times in this House, as an MP in three terms, saying that I have received citizens of Golia and Podgolian villages, these days and have informed me, on behalf of the animal world, on behalf of the plant world and in the name of the people of Golia, that the state of the biological world is extremely good in Golia, the state of the animal world, the wolves, bears and all other animals are extremely protected, but they inform me that people are moving from so much protection to Golia, where many bureaucrats have been telling our people for years that this is so protected that it can't be moved, because it's such protection. People wonder if Golia Srbija, such as Zlatibor, is a Kopalnik, such as Divcibare, such as Tara. The state invested tens of tens and tens of millions of dollars on Tara's infrastructure, on Kopalnik, hundreds of millions of dollars, on Zlatibor, on Golia, nothing. It's supposed to be so protected that people today have nothing to live on. So I call on the government to do what it did with the latest project, because there will be answers – Mr. Omeragic, it was another time when someone else was making decisions that hundreds of millions of investments would come from the state budget on Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Divcibar, but here we have tens of millions in our time on the Old Mountain. Since meteorology is one law here, we need to link it to the development of tourism. You've had a minus three for a month and a half in Sjenica, but you don't have any ski grounds, you don't have any state institutions. On other grounds, we buy millions of euros to make artificial snow. The Shadow falls now, so it melts somewhere in May. Please, have someone deny me this temperature from the Shadow. On Euronews and the Si-En-En, you have the information, when you read the first temperature of winter, that our Shadow is coming here. But we have it on "Euronews" we have it on "Si-en-en," but on this country's tourist map we don't have it. Given that the people of Golia have informed me that I should pass on to this Parliament and this government that it is unacceptable that from the centre of Novi Pazar to 1702 metres of altitude in Golia is only 17 minutes of driving by car. Sandzak has the youngest population. To inform you, tens and tens of thousands of our children have an activity called nature school. They, as I speak here today, are on Tara, in Divchibari, in Kopalnik, in Zlatibor, across Serbia. But we also believe that children from Uzic, Cacak, Belgrade and all other parts of Serbia should come to Golia and see that Golia is also one of the most beautiful mountains in Serbia, as well as the Kopalnik, and Zlatibor, and Divcibar and Tara. I was only two months ago on Tara, and I saw one board, almost 12 meters, that says "National Park", which is all protected, so I saw walking paths, I saw hotels with pools, and I saw a lot of construction facilities, so today we're building there. We don't have any infrastructure facilities in Golia today. That's why the message is citizens: please don't protect us anymore, we want to cohabitate with the plant and animal world, but let us live as in Zlatibor, Kopalnik and other parts. As far as further protection goes, the cave is protected, but the cave has nothing to live on. These days, Minister Skundric said at a press conference that the ministry had commissioned a study on the environmental impact related to the protection, i.e. the assessment of the Stavalj Mines, where we do not enter more investment, although the latest estimates of the Mining Institute say that there are deposits and that we can build a modern thermal power plant and thus improve the country's energy balance, we only employ in the construction of a thermal power plant of 1500 people, and even so much when the thermal power plant is built. So I'm saying that the process of making this study is speeding up, and that's why I'm asking the government that this study doesn't take ten years, but to get it done as soon as possible, to get that data. The thermal power plants work in Germany today, by a system of surface spears, where today, what has been dug up and behind it goes machines and sowing grass. Modern filters on these chimneys are such that they don't pollute the environment. We don't want to pollute the cave, break the biosphere. Our life's interest is to make it a protected zone. I want to remind you, I happen to live in Switzerland for a few years, and that Davos, St. Moric, and the largest ski centres in Switzerland, gentlemen, are located in protected zones, but it's clear who and how much he can build, in what way he can build, how much gas there can be. The only question is that this is properly arranged and that people can live there, make money, preserve the bio-holy world, and that there are places on the mountains for both animals and humans. As far as Stavlja is concerned, we ask the Government to speed up this process and make this investment move to that new thermal power plant as soon as possible, because today it is in Sandzak, as you know, the highest unemployment rate in this country, to speed up economic development and thus make sure that the Sandzak citizens do not move out of this area. Yesterday, in my speech about the second item of the agenda, I quoted Duško Radovic. He lived in the time he lived in, so he said, if such an economic policy and unbalanced regional development continues, he wrote an aphorism that read: "In communism we will all live in Belgrade." In order for that to not happen, today I just wanted to point out a few things that have directly to do with the protection of the environment, to encourage economic development and to turn Serbia's budget towards Sandzak as well. These days, Vensan Deger, a representative of the European Commission in Serbia, said in an interview with Blica, that our country received 10 billion donations from the EU and five billion loans. I have to tell you that very few funds have been sent to this most underdeveloped region. So I ask the government to pay attention to all these projects that I've been talking about, because the citizens of this region deserve it, and I think that moving this population out of this area is not the interest of this country, because we simply have very bad examples that the demographic image of Serbia is rapidly changing every day, as we speak disappears one village in Serbia. Big centres like Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac are overpopulating and having urban problems, they can't solve either sewers, water, or electricity, and where the state invested in the electricity of the pipeline 50 years ago, we have problems there today to keep the population. I'm just saying that the state and this time towards Sandzak should show more understanding, I mentioned investments on the Old Mountain. That is why I call on the government to form in Novi Pazar a section of Serbia's Public Enterprise, thus also showing citizens of this part that tourism is possible in this part of Serbia and that this is how we hire people in this part of Serbia. When a city or republic declares that something of interest he does. Here's the last example, the city of Belgrade says that the PKB's interest, although in modern analysis of neoliberal logic we read that the state or state institution is a bad entrepreneur, we have investments today. So I said, we take the Bora example, we know how polluted it is, we experienced a few years ago that the Bora apartment is worth 5,000 euros, but the state said it was important for us to invest 100m euros from the Bora budget, to hire people and the Sandzak citizens there, and they were extremely pleased that the state had entered Bora, that thousands of people were working there, that the latest technology was purchased, but that's why we are asking for them to react from both budgets and economic operators in our region.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45786	National MP Zoran Bortic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45787	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in the application of the Chemical Law adopted by this National Assembly last year, has shown that certain economic operators have problems with the application, so the motion for amendments and additions to this law concluded that it is possible to clarify certain provisions to facilitate the application of the law. It should be pointed out that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are not contrary to the relevant EU rules, nor do they essentially change the policy of governance of chemicals defined in the Chemical Act. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Chemical Act is mainly precise and clarifying the existing legal text and simplifying certain procedures. It is important to point out that the principle of European rules in the field of chemicals, which regulates the conditions for the placing on the market of chemicals as a product, i.e. how to determine the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment. The main objective of law-making is to establish, maintain and improve a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, ensure a high level of protection of people and the environment, as well as improve the free transport of chemicals with EU and other countries. The proposed changes and additions will ensure the competitiveness of our economy and encourage the development of safer alternatives. They will facilitate the work of manufacturers or importers of chemicals, as they will enable them to decide for themselves how to hire chemical advisers. It will allow the documentation required in the procedure before the Agency to be delivered in English, which is a significant financial savings. It will enable foreign producers to deliver data to the Agency representing a business or industrial secret, which simplifies and speeds up the process. In particular, it should be pointed out that these amendments and additions are not fundamentally amended by the basic law and are proposed to simplify and specify the application of the existing law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act does not touch the essential solutions given in this law. These changes and additions mainly relate to the explanation of text and simplification of individual procedures. As is known, the basic Biocidal Products Act has taken over from the EU. However, the adoption of sub-legislative rules has shown that individual solutions in the law are not sufficiently precise or that procedures themselves can be simplified. As a result, changes and existing solutions have been imposed as a real need for this law to be more effective in application. In particular, it should be pointed out that these solutions do not deviate from the European spirit of this law. As is known, the main objective of the existing Biocidal Products Act is to establish, maintain and improve a single system of governance of these products in our country. The aim of the law is to ensure a high level of protection of human health, as well as to improve the free movement of these products with EU and other countries. The country's goal is to ensure the competitiveness of the economy and to encourage the development of safer alternatives. The adoption of amendments and additions to this legal text will have a significant impact on producers, or importers of biocidal products, as they will be facilitated by the process of obtaining documentation and will allow high costs in this process to be shared by several economic operators, will allow technical files to be delivered in English, which represents a significant financial savings. It will significantly simplify the procedure concerning certain professional issues, which economic operators will come to faster and more effectively. These amendments and additions to the basic law remove inaccuracies from the existing legal text and their adoption to a significant extent will make the Biocidal Products Act simpler and more effective in application. The legal basis for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act is Article 97 point 9. The RS Constitution, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides sustainable development, a system of protection and promotion of the environment, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, production, transport and transport of weapons, toxic, flammable, explosive, radioactive and other hazardous substances. The existing law was passed in 2004. During its application, certain problems have been observed, especially in relation to compliance with EU rules, as well as sectoral laws in the area of spatial and urban planning or land use. The provisions of the existing law should be aligned with the provisions of the laws governing the area of agriculture, forestry, fisheries, energy, industry, transport, waste management, water management, telecommunications and tourism, which are covered by the strategic impact assessment. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment has been prepared in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules. The amendments provide for a clearer distinction between the competences relating to the development of plans, programmes and strategies. The proposed amendments will also ensure the alignment of the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment Act with other sectoral laws. The role of different actors in the complex process of assessing the sources of production, reporting and supervision in law enforcement is clearly defined. The amendments and additions to this law will affect the work of the authorities and organisations responsible for the adoption of plans, programmes, bases and strategies in the protection of the environment. In view of the objectives to be achieved by the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment, which are set in the interest of preserving the health of citizens and the environment in general, the proposed amendments and additions to this law will prove to be twice justified. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on noise protection in the environment, which was delivered to the National Assembly of the RS for this session, aims to specify and distinguish competences in the existing law, which this Assembly adopted in 2009. As is known, the Law on noise protection in the environment is another law that our country has brought into line with EU rules and which regulates the area comprehensively. As a result of the principles contained in the set of legislation in the field of environmental protection, a number of inaccuracies were observed during the application of this law, so the proposed changes and additions want to achieve a clear distinction of competence, particularly in the work concerning the production of strategic maps of noise and the development of action plans. The proposed amendments and additions will regulate the rights and obligations at all levels of decision-making and diverge the competences of the decision-makers to achieve the objectives set. The specific newspaper in the proposed text refers to the production of strategic noise maps resulting from the obligation set out in Directive 2002/49/EC for Member States and Annex IV to the Directive. The strategic maps shall be worked at the level of the RS and shall comply with the criteria set out in this Directive. On the basis of the proposed changes, it will be clearly distinguished that the Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for the production of strategic noise maps. The basis for amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, adopted by the National Assembly in 2009, stems from the RS Constitution, as well as the need to bring this law in line with EU regulations governing the area of nature protection. The key reasons for the adoption of this law are the need for a more precise determination of the terms of documents, acts and procedures through which the Nature Protection Act is implemented. Amendments and additions to this law shall specify the powers and obligations of nature protection entities, relations between nature protection institutions, safeguard regimes and management systems and the financing of protected areas. Based on one-year experience in implementing the Law on the Protection of Nature and Recommendations, i.e. the requirement of international factors, amendments and additions to this law, the simplification and reduction of most procedures in the production of documents and the adoption of acts from the field of nature protection will be ensured. It will either be eliminated or it will come to a minimum ground for free evaluation and interpretation of legal solutions by institutions. It will be easier to resolve conflicts and relations between stakeholders, including more effective settlement of compensation issues for the prohibition and restriction of the right to use, damage caused by protected species of animals and measures of technical and biological protection. The rights will be strengthened and the powers and responsibilities of the managers of protected areas will be strengthened and the collection system for the protected areas used will be strengthened. The colleagues and fellow MPs, the reason for the proposed amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act, adopted in 2009 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, rests in the need for certain legislative and legal solutions to be aligned with other applicable rules relating to waste management. This applies to the precision which the operator manages by waste, subject to an integrated authorisation and how it obtains those licences. In the process of issuing authorisation for storage, treatment and disposal of waste, it is necessary, in addition to the decision to give consent to the environmental impact assessment, to submit an act on the obligation to make an environmental impact assessment. It is also not prescribed by the applicable law that local self-government can issue licences for the treatment of inert and non-hazardous waste on its territory and carry out inspection controls on the conduct of these operations. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to entrust certain competences to municipalities and such solutions provide for the application of the principle of proximity and waste management. According to this principle, waste is treated closer to the site of origin. It provides efficient waste management in the territory of two or more local self-government units, which jointly provide and implement waste management on their territory. The responsibilities of the Environmental Protection Agency shall be specified, the conditions to be met by a qualified person responsible for professional work, waste management. Obligations of collectors or waste carriers shall be defined. These amendments and amendments to the laws provide for more effective control of the cross-border movement of hazardous waste laid down by international contracts and EU rules. The issues which are subject to the amendments and additions of this law are systemic nature and their adoption provides the basis for the regulation of the rights and obligations of municipalities, economic operators and other legal entities in the field of waste management, from its creation to its final disposal. Dear fellow MPs, the Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Action is one of the laws prepared in the process of transferring jurisdiction from federal to republican authorities, i.e. in the process of achieving Serbia's international legal entity. The proposed text of the law is also subject to the process of harmonising domestic legislation with international contracts in meteorology and hydrology, in particular with EU regulations, which govern this area in a comprehensive manner. The proposal for this law clearly distinguishes matters of interest for the RS from other meteorological and hydrological affairs that can be carried out by legal and natural persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, in a way that is determined by this law. The proposed law aims to achieve the regulation of meteorological and hydrological activity by establishing monitoring, research and weather forecasting, climate and water, which are of interest to the RS and other hydrological and meteorological affairs, as well as the conditions and manner of their declaration. The law creates normative assumptions for the implementation of RS functions in the area of meteorological and hydrological activity and its implementation of the relevant EU directives in the area of water and air. The tasks of hydrometeorological services are identified and a unique hydrometeorological system is united, which is an integral part of the system of protection and rescue from natural elemental disasters and disasters and other emergency RS and international information systems in this area. The law ensures that data and information in this area are placed in the role of protecting human lives and material goods, the need for sustainable economic development, the eradication of poverty and that the competencies of the authorities and institutions in this area are more precise. Jobs in this area are clearly distinguished which are of interest to the republic from others, and specify the conditions of private sector participation in meteorological hydrological affairs. The aim of the law is to ensure that the hydrometeorological service of RS is better adapted to international information systems in this area, particularly European systems, in the process of our country's EU integration. It should be pointed out that a number of World Meteorological Organisation regulatory documents, as well as the international practice of EU countries and relevant EU directives, have been used in drafting this law. Dear representatives of the ministry, esteemed fellow MPs, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS Parliament Club has proposed a number of amendments, so I hope you will take into account and consider what of these amendments can correct the text of the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45788	National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45789	Madam President, I would just like to ask that, if possible, the minister be in the O.R. when we speak, because the people who are here and I thank you for always coming neatly to committees and here, I don't think they can answer us, and I think the Minister's business obligation is to be present when MPs speak. The ruling majority in this Assembly came up with a magic formula for how the laws to run, as on the conveyor belt, and to talk about them very little or not at all, and that all of this has a vision of democracy, as well as the way the sessions are conducted has the vision of democracy, as well as the way the state has the vision of democracy. It's so-called. marketing democracy. It's called exactly when a united debate about everything and everything, which doesn't really matter much, but it's simply a package of laws, as people in this assembly like to say, because it is actually a package of laws. As it seems in practice, we had the opportunity to see in April and May 2009 when 16 laws in the field of environmental protection and three conventions were united in one debate. So that's 19 very important things that we've had a chance to talk about for one minute, me as authorized one minute and a little bit more than one second. It was then the task of these laws to change the system of nature protection in Serbia, to contribute greatly to changing the habits of Serbian citizens and to promote ecological principles. At that time in the O.R., like now there were some few MPs, the discussion went unnoticed, all of it went peacefully, quietly, cobayage publicly. If gentlemen remember, the DSS parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments, because in the law group they were both inaccurate and inefficient and inefficient and we then felt that our task was to contribute to the improvement of these laws, because we felt it was very important that they be adopted. Eighteen months after that April, or May 2009, here we are again on the same, though, now it's back in the package, not 19 laws, or 16 plus three conventions, but eight laws, so as authorized, I'll have a really long time to talk about it, two minutes by law, and some other change seconds. It will all be united, as it has been united both the grandmothers and the frogs and the new law and the laws that endure change and supplement, and it will all be nice and quiet, so that none of the citizens will happen to know what this is about. On the first agenda we had two laws very close, quite normally that they were connected and in the set, the Biocidal and Chemical Act and it was normal to discuss them and to discuss them for so long, however, the agenda was extended in the day we voted on the agenda. New laws have been introduced, and I'd like to comment on those laws now. To start with the Chemical Act. The biggest newspaper, at least as it's being presented here today, I have to comment on one thing at all. Today, all the authorities here speak of these amendments and additions to the law as if the opposition had passed previous laws, as if they were bad, and now they're being corrected. So, the same people who are sitting here today, they're also convincing us on the board, and here that the law is extra, that they're in line with European directives and standards, even though they weren't, we've submitted amendments to that, as not all of them are now. Now we are also strongly convinced that these are the changes and additions that we need to adopt, because they will significantly correct the laws. So, chemicals. First of all, to allow the prescribed documentation to be provided in the necessary procedure in front of the agency, which is quite extensive material, I must admit, can be delivered in English. The agency obviously knows very well English because it requires that a report on the safety of chemicals can be delivered to her in English. It's an accent for you on that "can," and it's an accent on what the Constitution says, so I'm warning you to violate the Constitution of Article 10, Section 1 and 2. – in the Republic of Serbia, there is an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. By the way, the explanation of why you use English is funny – it's a significant financial savings, you say. Who? The next is even more ridiculous – English is one of the official languages in the EU. That's what you wrote in your explanation. It's the discovery of a pothole. There's no need to reveal hot water and pothole, we know he is, but it's both Spanish and German and French. Why didn't you introduce the possibility of these languages being here? It doesn't have any foothold for any real reason. This is one of your stupidities, to adopt everything that would be good for people to have you in mind how ready you are to go to court. This is what you and I will never agree on, because I believe that what we need to adopt is positive European fluids, not that the gay parade is declared the most valuable liquid in the EU. Next paper – the law requires payment of fees for the provision of professional evaluations. So much for taking care of financial expenses. What follows, and what is provided for by law, is even more scrupulous. You're saying that the fee prescribed by this law is not a liability for economic operators, that they can, in a regular procedure that lasts 526 years, not to charge that fee, that they don't pay the fee, but if you want the data to be quickly and expediently compensated, they have to pay. I assume you're all getting budget funds for your own income and there's no need to rob Serbian citizens this way. You did not provide that the representative of a foreign producer providing the confidential data needed to enter chemicals into the chemical register shall provide you with any confirmation of what it represents and what its status is. We've submitted the amendments. We saw you adopt them. And these are, we have to comment, and cosmetic changes, the guy says not to advertise more than to advertise, and it's not to say advertising, but to advertise. You keep talking about biocidals, same policy, it's not advertising, it's advertising and stuff. You have again the use of English in Serbian institutions. I'm warning you again to the Constitution because we're going to ask the Constitutional Court for a comment on what you're looking for. You have a problem with the status of foreign producer. That's comments, because I don't have more than two minutes. I could've been a little longer, and I could've been on a board that lasted four and a half hours. Then we have the Waste Management Act. I wish the minister were here because I would ask him how such a law, which is a very complicated and very difficult law, can be corrected by what he suggested. By the way, I'd ask him one more thing about this law, and that's how this law and its jurisdiction agree with the Community Labour Act and their jurisdiction, since there's obviously big problems here that aren't touched? Then we have a big problem regarding the material and fiscal burdens of the economy. I have a comment from Mr Milos Bulgaria from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which says that the adoption of new laws follows the introduction of parafiscal burdens through different types of taxis. The levels of taxes are inappropriate in the economic strength of the economy and represent a new increase in the cost of business. This category of payments does not have a budget income category and often goes into different newly established funds that are outside budgetary control and which are not managed in a transparent manner. That's what's very interesting and what's to talk about, so we'll probably talk about it when they're amended, because we can't deal with it. Then we have an environmental impact assessment. It's the 2005 Law, not 2009 Law, as some here realized, that was when changes and additions were made. Here I really can't comment negatively, except that in the Ministry, it's a very complicated system for local self-government, it doesn't have the capacity at the place to deal with this, and there's going to happen to be one traveling circle of people, one traveling circus of people who will always give their own analysis in every local self-government, and what's to ask is: is it possible that in the Ministry in this area that is and how important only three people are doing? The law on the impact of noise, it's the same thing that needs to be commented on, and that's where you go to meet the local self-government. It is commented that there is a need to help, given strategic noise maps do not operate by local self-government because there is no capacity, as we have spoken and when we have passed this law rather than to move on to the Environmental Protection Agency. The question is, who's gonna pay for it? The law does not say, it says only that the government will find a way, and we would like to have an answer to what kind of way it will be. I am very sorry that these laws can't comment much more, especially on meteorology and hydrometeorology because it's a new law, but what people, what Serbia's citizens expect from this law, are the issue of disasters, the question of who will pay for the damage from the city, who is in charge of keeping the citizens of Serbia and their efforts, their fields, meadows, orchards, etc. I come from Valjev, the problem of this species has been on two occasions this year. They haven't been regulated yet. You have very skillfully avoided solving this issue with this law and you have been obliged to resolve it. You've re-longed it. There will be a new law. When? We don't know, and neither do you, I suppose. Once again, Serbian citizens remain unprotected. There's no telling who's gonna do or what. Now I would go back to what we have commented on the board as the most significant thing, not because these laws that I have stated are less valuable, but because we don't have time in this discussion, in this way to speak important things. I would like to talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, because these changes and additions will do the greatest damage to the protected areas of Serbia and Serbia's citizens, the natural resources of Serbia. A few facts before I start. The proposal came from the ministry. The government adopted the draft, without consulting the professional public, without having consulted interested citizens, an absolute ark was adopted here in the Assembly, but apparently not applicable to the ministry, except when it is said – is given an insight. It gave citizens an insight into the draft of these amendments and additions and was found on the ministry's website on 17 August. It's interesting that this proposal, the blueprint found on the site, has nothing to do with what the government adopted. One more thing is interesting, the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive have not been officially implemented in Serbia, and their transposition is precisely done by this law. It seems to me that the terms used here have been introduced by an ominous method, which is very present at the Ministry. This can cause problems during the application of this law. I think you should consider that. In the end, what I have to say again is that these changes and additions are going to do a lot of damage. It is one big step back, when it comes to protecting Serbia's protected areas. In particular, the members of the 13th and 28th amendments and additions are problematic. That's what many people have seen. It's not my discovery. They realized this and the professional public informed you with open letters and warned you of the damage you are doing. You have a letter, which I assume I have and members of the environmental protection committee. On the other hand, interested public, NGOs, 35 NGOs have also sent you an open letter. Everyone tells you that these changes don't need to be done this way, because they're going to do a lot of damage. What is wrong with this law, this amendment and supplementation? Many of the proposed solutions are even deviating from the general objectives of the law that was brought here. They also deviate from international standards and deviate from good practice in this area. Again, I refer to Articles 13 and 28, 35 and 57 of the current Law. The 2009 law, which everyone mentions here and the minister mentioned, says changes and additions regulate the protection regime, which is not true. The 2009 law significantly improved the previously existing system of three-stage protection regimes. He has very well balanced activities that can be used in which protection regime. Of course, this law had its faults and we should talk about them. His operation was very problematic. The deadlines he gave to bring the existing situation into line with this law were also inadequate, the instruments for the reconciliation process were problematic, precise mechanisms were missing and so on. The biggest problem this law had was the discrepancies of Articles 32 and 35. They were not functionally in line with the classification of protected areas in Article 35. That further complicated the application of this law. We really expected that changes and additions of the law would go in that direction, that they would follow the shortcomings observed in application. But what you wrote here in these changes and additions, these are these changes that fully redefine the character and content of the protection regime. This relativises the purpose of the existence of protected areas. This purpose and these protected areas are a key form of active protection of biodiversity. Let's see what the changes are like here. There are particularly poor regime changes in the first and second stages of protection. It's a territory that covers 80 to 90% of the current protected areas. Here the proposer in this section says that an explicit ban on certain activities is being imposed. It is also a tax-based list of activities that are partially or completely permitted, and are as unacceptable and as harmful as those that you have banned. In addition, you allow all of this to be allowed, with the government's discretionary decision through new laws, through sublegal acts, and what I specifically warn, without the obligation to consult professional institutions, institutions, which I think is inadmissible. So what are such institutions for if, in this way, you're going to devastate areas without giving them the opportunity to talk about it? Article 28, which is further problematic, says it introduces new government powers. The government will continue to be able, without clear procedure, without criteria, without professional verification to approve a series of prohibited and with a regime to protect fully incompatible activities, works and projects, based on a free assessment of the existence of general interest and national importance. What does it look like in practice? And so far it's worked the same way. Someone estimates that there's a state of importance, that there's a national interest, and something just happens to show up in national parks, that there are some things that don't belong to that level of protection. By the way, I mentioned here, when we adopted the Statute of Vojvodina, that the national park couldn't stand for anyone who cared about it to be an AP. Either reduce, lower the level of protection, which is inadmissible, or just see what you're going to do with it. Besides, there's no such example in the world that a national care park has someone out of state. I have to comment that you've lost your compass completely. The protection of nature in protected natural goods has been set arbitrarily. The government is an arbitration officer who decides. It won't be that it can be done. I see there's a "Natura 2000" here that's one of the bad ways and a bad network. I would say that we should make sure that even more than 6% of our territory enters this network, precisely because it's important that we protect our nature. We won't be able to protect her. I just have to say one more thing, segments of the law on amendments and additions to laws that are controversial, Articles 28 and 13, are actually not in line at all and have not gone through international verification. All in all, I wouldn't go on about Natura 2000, I'd have a lot more, and I'll talk later. The interpretation of sustainable development in this way is inadmissible. We will come to the situation that the minister and his friends, since it is obvious that in this law, big tycoons with big money are being made to fly in order to maintain a certain party in power, to build hydropower plants and some nuclear plants, transport, energy, municipal and other infrastructures in the second-degree protection regime, industrial, energy facilities, asphalt bases and dumps in the third-degree protection regime. Here, not to invent the DSS, I have an article signed by the president of Serbia's Ecological Movement Assembly, Mr. Alexic, who claims to have a nuclear waste dump at a small door from Fruska Gora. Furthermore, I have Mr. Milan Djuric, president of the Environmental Conscious Development Centre, who says the adoption of these changes would be devastating. He says – at the American Environment Protection Agency "Filli" we have been discovered that underground waste shelters are being built in national parks, as well as that the Đerdap national park will lose that categorization. The obvious influence of the nuclear lobby. I'd like the minister to comment, because a lot of voices talk about it. I would like to finally, since I am from Valjevo, the minister is commenting on these amendments and additions to the law, how much they are designed to make certain companies, such as "Kemis" in Valjevo, make their warehouse, dumps, because the citizens of Valjevo are very upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45790	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, in accordance with Rule 87 of our Rules of Procedure, until the completion of a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 4 to 10 of the agenda, we will work today if there is a need. I would also like to inform you that, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat, in order to allow its participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Elizabeth Paunovic, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report, the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Elisabeth Paunovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. He's not here, but he's probably following. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to work, according to applications for the word of the MPs in the joint principled search. I give the word to the MP, vice president, Mrs. Juditi Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45791	Madam President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP strongly supports environmental protection and we will also support this set of laws aimed at protecting the environment. The LDP also noted when proposing certain proposals for its Rules of Procedure regarding the RS Assembly that there is a need for a single Committee on Environmental Protection in this assembly. Just because we worked really hard and made our views clear, this committee is also formed in the congregation, that is, the newest Rules of Procedure of this congregation. I would say a few words about these laws, based on one particular example, which shows how little environmental care is being taken into account, or how much support support this government's entire approach to environmental protection is declared. As far as you are aware, the red mud that has expired in the Danube tributaries in Hungary is slowly arriving in Serbia, and Serbia, for example, has no adequate response to what to do in case its water streams are more seriously threatened with red mud. Why does Serbia not have an adequate answer? I think we should really ask this question and insist on a concrete answer, since Serbia, for example, has one ship "Argus", a ship laboratory that this country received in January 2003, thanks to late Prime Minister Djindjic, who, on the basis of his great appreciation in the German Bundestag, as well as in the province of Hesen, acted as one of all the countries in the region, which are linked to the Danube, Serbia is the winner of that very important ship, which otherwise has a value of around 500 000 euros. Unfortunately, that ship has been anchored in a military dock for nearly seven years. This ship is slowly failing, and no one is seriously trying to make certain corrections or repairs work on that ship, to put it into service, that is, to serve that purpose and the purpose for which it is given, I underline – donated to the state of Serbia. The Argus ship is one of the two ships that exist in Europe, and they have this character and importance that they can be controlled by the quality of water and water flow. One ship is located in Germany, this is Argus number two, and this Argus number one is in Serbia. While measuring the quality of water, the laboratory at Argus gave a score of 10.7 points, which is otherwise a far higher concentration, i.e., much less than that measured 8 points in Bezdan, when the danger of red mud would reach Serbia. If we take into account that this laboratory may not provide good data and objective results, because its measuring instruments have not been calibrated for seven years, it remains concerned that we do not have an adequate answer to what Serbia will do in the event of some major incidents if it applies in this way to such goods as "Argus", a boat laboratory. Unfortunately, that's our reality. When we start from the same reality, I would especially like to underline the fact that the citizens of Zrenjanin are really real people and rational people and really the Zrenjani are aware of that and they know that they have some chemical industry, that they have food industry, the pharmaceutical industry, so the whole industry actually produces some dangerous waste. We are aware that there must be a regional waste center and as far as this is concerned, we might not have any particular objection about Zrenjanin being a regional waste center. However, when we add this to the fact that Zrenjanin is also intended for the regional centre of ordinary waste, there is already a question -- how is it that Zrenjanin qualified so much to be a dump of various waste, and when it comes to the question of what about wastewater treatment facilities, what about the water factory, what about Ecka International Airport, instead of getting an airport, what about the port on the coast of Begeja or Tisa, what about the Banatska highway, what about the forsification of the bypass that is and how about the importance of protecting the environment of Zrenjanin, the municipality of Zrenjanin and in fact the whole region? The question arises – what about the Tsar Bar, which extends to the territory of 7,000 hectares and is given, for example, to the management of a private fishing land, while Zrenjanin is even registered as a beneficiary of the Tsar Bar, where the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development pays a great deal of millions to eliminate the damage caused by the manager of the Ramsar area by private fishing land, and is then looking for money to remove that damage that only caused. So all these questions are kind of in correlation and they're connected, so it's really not pointless to ask why we're just qualified for dumps. So, underlining, we're rational and real people, we agree that we have to build a regional centre for both this and that waste. I agree that we must put order in general in relation to this issue by the state, government and coalition in power, however, it is not enough to treat on the one hand the capacities of such a region as the Mediterranean region and Zrenjanin, which is such a significant city, and we forget that both this dangerous and regular waste warehouse is especially where industry is extremely rich and strong. I can tell you that Zrenjanin is on the list only in 23rd place, I'm talking normally about a list of industrially developed cities, or industrial forces, that are located on a specific territory, a particular region and a city. Normally, when we put this in relation to the situation of industrial development of Zrenjanin from more than 20 years ago when Zrenjanin was second in the Federal Federal Federal Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then it is really seen how Zrenjanin simply lost his significance, as far as development is concerned, and the capacities are available. Then the question arises – are we talking about marginalization or something else. I agree that normally the Serbian province is extremely marginalised, if it is not the cities of Novi Sad and Belgrade, in which case we are only talking about the province, but it is already a matter of some other laws and it is actually a matter of decentralisation. So no matter how much we protect the environment, if we don't solve some other problem, we're just gonna stay on some declarative protection, and that's where the story ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45792	I just wanted to let you know that until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, MPs' groups of New Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia -- the JS, the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica, Advanced Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and for European Serbia -- have submitted to the vote. I give my word to Parliamentarian Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45793	Madam President, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, because we do not have enough time as a parliamentary group, I will focus on two draft laws, i.e. amending and supplementing the law. I will talk first about the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, and later I will talk about amendments to the Nature Protection Act. Before we received these draft laws, every MP, whether or not a member of the Ecology Committee, received a report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia for 2009. If I'm not mistaken, this is the fourth such report in a row. The first one was for 2006 I think, and this is one very important document and it's one of the basic documents in the field of environmental protection in general. So it's here in the areas, and it's all areas concerned by the environment, it's given an estimate of the current situation in a particular area, but it's also given recommendations and measures that need to be implemented in the next period, to improve certain areas. When a chapter on waste management is read, it can be concluded that much has not been done in the area, i.e. very little has been done and that the report shows up in the same problems. This report also says that there is still insufficient infrastructure, when it comes to the treatment and disposal of waste, then that municipal and hazardous household waste is being put off in Serbia together, that there is a lack of adequate data on the composition of waste streams, that there are no locations and facilities for the treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and that land remains contaminated by waste disposal, as well as water in Serbia. So these are the same problems that have arisen since the Ministry produced this report. Also, the report says that there is still 4,400 so-called 4400 people in Serbia. wild dumps and dumps and that 164 is a dump of public and municipal enterprises, which we can say are sort of arranged. In early 2009, we adopted the Waste Management Act and the Law on packaging and packaging waste. What is evident, which is my colleague from the parliamentary group, and she said that many of the laws that we adopted in the set at that time were very weak or almost not applied. Some general impressions, when these changes were being amended and complemented, there the ministry set out to simplify certain procedures, and they simplified some things that they shouldn't have. Waste management problems are not equally expressed in all local environments and the introduction of an integrated management system depends on the possibility of individual local self-governments. It would be interesting if the minister told us how many regional deposits were built in his mandate, i.e. since he was a minister or since these laws were in force. The fact is that local self-government is very difficult to negotiate on common regional dumps. When it comes to the Pyrotic District, I know that these negotiations last for five or six years, that at one point they have reached agreement on the location itself, when it comes to the dump itself, however, the process, as far as I know, stands. The legislator, I suppose, would unblock these particular processes, suggests here that the Government is the one who will judge or decide or determine the location, place and so on in such situations. I understand the ministry's need to decommission some processes, but I think it's never good for the government to rule and not agree with certain local self-governments. There's a possibility of different kinds of blockages. So, I think that the Ministry could have made some efforts to be a mediator, a mediator, to introduce some other positive measures that would stimulate a certain local self-government, to have that regional dump built or built on their territory and not to make good decisions on behalf of local self-government. Especially since this government arbitration can certainly be welcomed and will be welcomed with great respect, because it is true that this government has different arches towards different local self-governments. A dozen days ago, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, articulated his personal relationship and the government's relationship to some local self-government. Namely, when he visited Piroth County, he refused to speak to representatives of local self-government in Piroth. Why? Because the ruling coalition is not part of the DS. Now one of my colleagues said it was normal. No, that's not normal. So, how there will be a coalition at the level of the community or local self-government is a matter of choosing the citizens of the local community. So if that's the case, then we don't even have to hold the election. Then whoever is at the republican level, who forms a coalition, can send a directive, name names, and then it will be people who will perform or deal with politics and rule in that local self-government. So, Mr Djelic has also articulated his personal relationship and the government's relationship to certain local self-governments, then you can also assume why local self-governments already welcome certain decisions with contempt. There is nothing, it is clear that Minister Djelic, who is in charge of European affairs, is exactly the kind of European behaviour. Another law I want to say a few words about is the Nature Protection Act. For some of the changes you've suggested, you're saying you've faced problems in practice. Some are changes, I suppose, justified. However, some amendments to certain members are not justified and it was better to keep the solutions that exist in the applicable law. Why? Because these changes and additions will not actually contribute to better nature protection, but will allow for the destruction of nature. I'll just list some changes and supplements that are particularly harmful, and I don't have time to go through all the members you're changing, although the DSS has submitted a lot of amendments, minors to each member, so I hope you'll study it carefully, so maybe you'll accept some. For example, when it comes to Article 4. The draft law on amendments and additions, this article practically changes the existing Article 10 from the applicable law, but changes both the title and the content. This is the process of carrying out an assessment of the acceptability of certain projects, programme activities, etc. The newspaper you are introducing is that this acceptability assessment process can also be conducted by the authority responsible for environmental protection tasks of the local self-government unit. So far local self-government has not appeared on its own, at least not that way. I don't think that's good, because there are few local self-governments in Serbia who have the right capacities and who can carry out this rather complicated and serious process of assessing the acceptability of certain projects and programmes as a task. It is then particularly harmful to Article 13 of this proposal, which amends the existing Article 35, which practically changes the protection regime in protected natural goods. My colleague, on behalf of the DSS, has already spoken of it in detail, but I also want to repeat some things. I don't think it's bad for the citizens to hear. So these changes and additions are practically reducing protection. The first-degree protection regime in protected natural goods in the applicable law meant strict protection, while the proposal allows some of the tourism activities that are totally unacceptable in strict protection zones. Then, the second-degree protection regime in force in the law involved activities in the implementation of the so-called so-called implementation. active protection, while Article 13 of this proposal limits this. When limited, it is not prohibited, and everything that is not prohibited, it is allowed, so this change in the second degree of protection will in fact stimulate a large number of completely unsustainable activities. The third-degree protection regime in the Nature Protection Act meant, I am talking about the applicable Act, active protection and the possibility of sustainable use, while Article 13. The proposal again limited, therefore, is not prohibited, the implementation of a large number of totally unsustainable activities that will completely devastate protected natural goods. So accept our amendment. We have suggested that this Article 13 be deleted, that is, to retain the solution that exists in the current law, because we honestly think that this protection regime will be much better protected by good. I would also point out, although this has already been said, that the total area of protected natural goods in Serbia is less than 6% of national territory, so little, and in other European countries it is up to 12%. So, of these 6% of these vast majority areas within the natural resources themselves, so more than 90%, is within the protection zone at this point of two and three degrees. So when we change this, 90% of those 6% of the surface will be compromised. They'll repeat what we suspect. We hope that our doubts are not justified and that it will not really be so. It seems that these changes and additions are somehow driven by the business sector and that there will be illegal activities in areas that really need to be protected, i.e. uncontrollable construction. Of course, tourism should develop, but sustainable, not unsustainable. For example, at the beginning of this year, when Minister Dinkic visited Kopalnik, he said, it was a big headline in the newspaper, which he had been dealing with, he got chilly, the title was a sentence – Kopalnik is a major construction site. It's not a sentence that can be heard when it comes to nationalally protected goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45794	MP Dejan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45795	Dear Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, firstly, amendments and additions to the law show that the ministry is intensively dealing with environmental issues and shows determination and willingness to solve these problems. Man's attitude to nature to natural resources was a theme for many authors in defining environmental policies, but also for trying to make the economy and economy two sides of the same medal, because for a long, perhaps too long time, the economy and ecosystems were the foundations of the conflicts of industry and sustainable policies of civil sector companies. The struggle to deal with environmental issues as top-class issues has largely come across compromises on environmental damage, protection of pollution reduction, and mainly in favour of economies and jobs. As an ecologically well-aware man, I refuse to choose between the environment and the workplace. Especially if we know that in the 21st century, in the century we live in, the economy will be based on infrastructure that supports green standards. That is why I am ready to build a future with other MPs, with citizens, with citizens' associations on green and sustainable policies. I listen very carefully to the discussion today, and we could hear very critical words, but when we haven't noticed environmental problems for 20 years, when we haven't seen any potential problems or those we see under the carpet, it reduces the strength of critical words that is directed to those who want to solve problems. For as long as I can remember, I've been hearing about environmental protection, green energy, green investment. At that time, however, some strategic reports were written, which later collected dust in the desks of officials, and problems are still under threat of serious consequences today. There's a lot of work ahead of us. There's no dilemma, business isn't easy, but we're not here to make it easy, we're here to solve environmental problems together with the ministry. In this business, the ministry will certainly get full support from us. Amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act reduce administration, speed up processes, prepare Serbia for new environmental directives. However, we know that changes in this sector will not only bring about changes in these laws, changes in this sector will bring about and the engagement of each of us and all of us will come. That's why we need people, but not those who sit and wait for problems to be solved, we need leaders. We need environmental leaders, local, regional, leaders who will be able to bring people together in their municipalities and very effectively deliver a message that by recycling a ton of paper we keep 17 trees from cutting, that if each family replaces only one lamp with a energy-saving lamp, Serbia will save more than 25m euros. We need regional leaders who will work on regional policies and gather countries of the region around the idea of solving problems together, because problems are also common. Everyone's downriver, so we're downriver, say, in Hungarian and red mud. We don't need reports in the '90s collecting dust. We need modern sustainable policies to safeguard resources for generations to come. The Ministry is seriously working on it. We need to treat environmental and environmental policy equally with social, economic and security issues, thus creating preconditions for sustainable development and that is the task of all of us. It is necessary to create a strong partnership with the civil sector, with citizens, with associations of citizens with experts coming from the Association of Citizens. We showed it in the congregation that we know we're working. We have established an informal "Green Parliament Group" with 26 MPs from nearly all MPs. We also have MPs from the opposition, almost all parliamentary groups, so we have shown that environmental issues are not colored in political colors and that together we can and must work on these issues. The task, i.e. the idea of a "Green Parliament Group" was to form such a necessary dialogue and partnership with the civil sector, with citizens, in order to solve problems in this area together and bring as green as possible the laws together. A journalist asked me if a green parliamentary group had opened the door to sneak up the civil sector. I said very clearly, there's no sneaking in, we opened the door wide for the citizens, invited them to debate, dialogue and action. I'm calling for one action today. I call on all directors, officials, local, republican, regional, to support the "Bells of Movements" action, to support the Declaration on strengthening regional co-operation of Western Balkan countries in the area of the environment. They want this declaration to point to the importance of regional co-operation. I must commend the Ministry for the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. You've really managed to bring together thousands of citizens with this action, you've managed to disrupt a large number of young people to join together, to establish NGOs and not wait for them to change themselves, but to offer ideas, offer solutions and offer their activists as part of the solution. My hometown is Sokobanja, the green heart of Serbia, the first ecological municipality. Thanks to your Law on Emergency Aid to the construction industry, next year we will build an open pool complex and establish a leaderial position in Banja tourism, along with Vranjska Banja. However, our main resources are natural resources and conservation, nature protection, the environment I consider my commitment and I take it very seriously. Just as young people in Sokobanja have taken this seriously, those who have established the NGO "Green Heart" and who do not wait for the changes to come alone, but offer and want to set clear standards for other young people in the area of the environment. In this they have my very clear, large and unconditional support. We also provide support to the Ministry for all the huge efforts that you are about to make to put order in the field of environmental protection, to make Serbia a healthy and beautiful place for life, and to make policies an ecological policy that will preserve resources for generations to come. We will also provide you with support to create a leader in the field of environmental protection, support you to create sustainable policies that will safeguard our resources and, of course, support you in mutual respect and to treat the environmental issue equally with social, economic and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45796	The word is from Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45797	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good for the MPs of the ruling coalition to say something about the law, to hear that part of the story. It would be good not to promote and praise some promotional actions by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So, "Let's Clean Serbia" action. As MPs, we received a report on the state of the environment in the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the cameramen to zoom in on this. It is the state of Serbia after the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. You can't see Serbia's territory from wild dumps. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? I didn't write this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, two years ago. 18 months ago, the Assembly passed 16 laws in the area of the environment, and then we received assurances from the environment minister that this was fully in line with EU directives. It's been less than a year and a half and we have amendments and additions to those laws. The question that arises – was it agreed then, as you said, and, if so, why are they changing and supplementing the law? So we're still agreeing. Did we not know that at the time, or do we now find out later, we need an ex-post mind? There is only one thing that is clear: that it was an illusion, an illusion of the affairs and values of the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, as it is now this illusion. How do we explain this illusion? Let's also remember this action "Let's Clean Serbia", so we have the condition it is. It may be a good example of a rapid reaction, which I commend, a reaction from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and an urgent summoning of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment for the ecological disaster in Hungary. That was fine. Mr. Minister, at that meeting, we agreed to have another committee meeting on the subject. Did we have it? We didn't, Mr. Minister. Why didn't we have it? Because at that point it was important for the minister to promote concerns about the work of the state authorities, which is fine, but it is not okay next move – was the main concern and the only exclusive problem was measuring the pH of water? No, Mr. Minister. It is clear that there is a great relief, especially downstream due to the tributary and that this pH can be very easily ironed. What's the other kind of problem, Mr. Minister? What's going on with heavy metals? Do we have one of the largest accumulations in the Danube, what's the yard accumulation? Is there a Gerdap National Park? Has anyone been dealing with this problem to take samples from the jar of jardapic accumulation and to give the public an indication of the composition of the soil? Will someone do a full analysis of that land, say what the situation is? They won't, because they don't care, because it was an illusion, the creation of marketing, the commendation of the alleged work of the ministry, and with the most serious problem – we won't do it. Did the Ministry of Environmental Protection react when there was a similar incident at the beginning of this year at Drina, when the accumulation of the Sas mine dam in Republika Srpska broke when the fish was killed in the Drina River? Has anyone been dealing with this problem? No, because he doesn't care. It's the creation of an illusion of something being done. So this is about the demarcation of a completely wrong national policy, which creates a vision of work, about the interest of following the rules with the EU, and there is nothing behind it, a dead letter on paper, a stillborn. Here's an example. So, we have the law on the protection against noise in the environment. Let's see what the law on noise protection is like in the environment, and is it in line with the local policy run by the city of Belgrade? Noise is a serious problem. And how is the city of Belgrade determined strategically? Building underground garages, building new parking spaces in Belgrade, increasing noise, environmental pollution. In one place we have a story, and in practice we have a completely different story. Are you responding to that, Mr. Minister? You're not responding. What's the medical waste situation? Is there something going on here? Nothing, Mr. Minister. Absolutely nothing, still medical waste ends up in ordinary dumps, in dumps. You mention - a regulation will be made. When? After how many years, 2015, 2016, 2017, what year? So, all in all, one completely empty story. Mr. Minister, you as the competent minister for a very important law, which unfortunately was not the subject of your interest, of the Water Act, and of the controversial Article 147, are you familiar with the provisions of that law, of that Article 147? What does that member say? That they would issue water permits for hydropower plants, thermal power plants and nuclear facilities. What kind of nuclear facilities are these? That jurisdiction for these water licences will be local self-government and the Republic and municipalities. Does that mean introducing nuclear power plants to a small door through the Water Law? Who in Serbia, given the moratorium, lobbys the construction of nuclear power plants? Who gives it to themselves for the right? And it's not at all a matter of the interest of the Secretary-General. Is that okay with you? Is that policy in line with those principles that you promote? Is it okay if we in Serbia have a nuclear power plant? You want to say a word about it? So, nothing. Shut up, man. That's how this policy is run, and that's the policy of narrow interests. There's no concern about environmental protection, there's nothing, no laws inapplicable, out of line, we'll probably relive the changes and additions of all these laws in the next few months. Mr. Minister, we can't vote for these changes and additions. We've submitted a lot of amendments, some of them you've accepted, but strategically speaking, it's not a good policy you're running. It's not good. It will not lead to an improvement in the state of the environment in Serbia. It'll bring the opposite. This is best seen in this Nature Protection Act. The law on the interests of certain people. Someone just mentioned the bathroom and the construction. Is the wastewater problem solved in the Kopalnik? Look what's going on in the wells in the villages below the top of the Kopalnik. Where do these wastewaters end? We're building one -- exclusive centers, and we're destroying another -- National Park. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is silent, not responding. The other day, the Topchider River was completely blue, which is pollution, we don't know who did the pollution. He's pouring himself into the Sava River at Ada Gypsies. Ten days of competent institutions headed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection find Topcider River blue. And why is it blue, who polluted that river? Did anyone suffer the consequences? Did the Ministry react? Well, Mr. Minister, you're not interested in that, you're only interested in writing a law, proposing amendments and additions, inapplicable, unacceptable, and saying you're leading a good policy in the field of environmental protection. I give you a few examples of things that get ordinary people's hair on their heads, and you keep your mouth shut. Say something if you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45798	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. The word has a minister, Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45799	I'll tell you right now, if you think it's a problem for someone to say it and, as you claim, we have a fear of saying it. Today I will say from the Assembly's pay phone – I am absolutely against the introduction or construction of a nuclear power plant in Serbia, absolutely against it, until there is no need for it, and at this point we do not use the natural resources that this country has, as regards renewable energy sources. I'm sure that won't happen in the future. That way, I want to deny all the malicious claims that you and your colleagues made, and regarding the fact that the amendments and additions to this law were actually meant to allow Frust Mountain to be a nuclear dump, and you've just broken us in, so now we don't know what we're going to do. I think it's so irresponsible and irresponsible and it's a public harassment. Very often, since you know our people, environmental protection is used not to conduct one responsible policy in which we exchange arguments, but to intimidate and intimidate the public, so there are allegedly credible texts from allegedly credible people who, behold, warn that our intention is to open up dumps for nuclear waste, who knows where, by our protected natural resources. Of course that's not true. But let's take it in a row. These amendments and additions to the law are proposed because life requires it. There are two great reasons for amending and supplementing the law and they will always exist in the future. I will not have a problem that, if necessary, every month, I change those things that are either meant to be explained and to simplify the procedure for applying the law and for reviving it in practice, because implementation, i.e. law enforcement, is a huge problem not only of this Parliament, government and local self-government, but of the entire system in the state. Another key reason why we are sitting here today is that, in the meantime, in these years and a half, European legislation has been amended, which has been adopted by new directives and, for example, we present to you here today an assessment of the acceptability that is fully in line with the new directive that came into force several months ago in the EU. So, we want our legislation to be in line with EU legislation, because it is a process that will take longer or shorter. What we don't want is that in this process, the environment is late or we will always go out to this Parliament trying to bring it together, therefore, our reality on the one hand and something that is European legislation on the other. What's the key thing and the key change? It primarily concerns and speaks of all the laws you have read today, explaining what our administration and bureaucracy were not clear. Explanation, so that's the key thing. You asked me and you read article 38, so today I wanted to present article 35. When you look at Article 38, which you advocate to return to legal power, or not to be changed, you will read one decryption of what you can or cannot do in protected natural goods. In it you have the identification of the first A and the first B, the second and third degree of protection, and then you have one decryption that we as a legislator thought was enough for those bodies that need to implement this law to understand what they can and can't do. Let me read it to you. So: "In the second degree of protection, management interventions are possible in order to restore, revitalise and overall improvement of natural goods without resulting in the primary value of its natural habitats, populations and ecosystems, as well as controlled traditional activities that did not endanger the primary values of space during its course." It was a decry in the existing law, which couldn't be applied for reasons that it wasn't clear to those who had to enforce the law, so we said well, since you don't understand, here's the amendment and the addition of the law, so we'll explain it to you. Since it's been a lot, and it's not a secret, pressure, not only like you say my friends, tycoon, or businessmen, and so on, it's certainly an insult, because you, too, I'm sure, are aware that it's not true, but there's a constant pressure of businesses and businesses, especially local small businesses, that live in those parts, because when we talk about our economic goods, we talk about the House Mountains, we talk about the Old Mountain, or we talk about the Copalnik. We're mostly talking about so-called passive areas where people are struggling to survive, because it's hard to live, and when there's any initiative for some small local business, they can't get a license, because the law wasn't precise and clear and they don't have any certainty what they can even build and what kind of business they can start. That's why we wanted to explain it, and this change is going that way. So the second-degree protection regime, so now it says what it forbids, so it says: construction of industrial, metallurgical facilities, asphalt bases, storage and sales of derivatives, etc.; so, it forbids, it can't. So, it's no longer an interpretation - perhaps it can, perhaps not, let's see if we can complete ourselves in this descriptive sentence from the current law, and it limits, and now, it says - according to the special conditions that this new directive requires us to evaluate the acceptability, which is done with strict conditions of the Institute for the Protection of the Environment, and then says ''limits the regulation and refurbishing of water streams, the formation of water-accumulation, meliorating and other hydrotechnical works, the construction of hydropower plants, solar power plants and power plants on bio-gas, bio-gas facilities, tourist accommodation, catering, nautical tourism and tourist infrastructures and the construction of facilities of transport, energy, utility and other infrastructures, residential and economic facilities, agricultural buildings, traditional hunting of stone, seas and seas, seagulls, seaguins for the construction of other seas, seas, seas, seas, sea-cation and sea-cation of the seas, seas, seas, seas, sea-minds, seas, seas, sea-s, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, seas, '"This is life. This is what happens in the second degree of protection, which we can't stop, because it's going to happen either under state control or without any permission. This is something that can be done in the second degree of protection, because it is an assessment of all who, mostly in individual cases, will give nature protection services whether these activities threaten nature or not. If the Nature Protection Department says it's not threatening, it's possible to issue a permit and it's possible to start activities. There is a huge problem in Serbia that we need to increase the level of protection, i.e. the area under different protection regimes. At this point we have 6%. We are trying to reach the Ministry's activities by the end of this government's term of office by 10%. At this point, we're working on over 40 elaborates that need to increase the surface. When you protect a particular area and you put in place a protection regime, it's a huge problem for the surrounding population, because they don't understand what it means. They don't understand why they can't do what they've been doing so far, which is why they can't build houses without permission, which is why they can't deal with the things they've been doing. It is very difficult to explain to our population that exactly protection means new investment and the possibility that their value and assets in the protected area, if we all work together, can create comparative advantages for sustainable tourism and for the use of this natural goods in a much better way. We're in the process - we're just about to arrive. Remember what it was like when we protected Wet Gora and how much the resistance of the population was, because it's sudden – you can't do what you've been doing so far, you have to be careful, to protect nature, you can't build a house anymore unless you're provided with a condition to join the infrastructure in terms of sewerage, because we can't separate waste water in nature anymore without any purification. Now I'm telling you about what life is. Thanks to this law, we'll explain what can be done and what can't be done. It is not true that it will not be included in the Nature Protection Office. It is true that the Government has been left with one possibility to intervene in certain situations, and these individual situations are extremely rare and involve exclusively, for example, works on the Đerdap hydropower plant, namely the construction of a reversible power plant, which we will need sooner or later. The Đerdap hydropower plant is located at this time in a protected natural goods called Đerdap National Park. One moment as Government, we'll have to intervene and allow the construction of a reversible power plant. It's the only thing that can be done if the government says – okay, in this zone it has to be done. When there is something that is of top national interest, I apologize, there is no expert at the Nature Protection Institute that can stop it, but this applies exclusively to those projects that are important to the state of Serbia. Everything else we tried to get in line. I'm telling you honestly, maybe this won't be enough, maybe we'll talk to you in a few months and we'll tell you -- we want another change and a supplement, and we'll explain it, and we'll correct it and we'll supplement it until these laws become practice. It won't go fast, we're aware of that. For all these other remarks, I heard about the Argus ship today. The Argus ship is a great gift we use every year for various kinds of work. In this year we introduced that he was used for education. The Argus ship is a ship that is relatively old, whose maintenance requires huge money. He shares the fate of all other institutions, state-owned objects. The buildings of all municipalities in Serbia are not exactly painted and shiny, although they may be old and represent cultural value, so the Argus ship cannot be in the best shape in a country that has no money to maintain it perfectly. As far as the lab is concerned, and as far as the public's fear of having nothing to measure now, if there's a threat to the environment from red mud, that's not true. The entire laboratory that the Argus ship has in it, which weighs perhaps two tons, today according to new technologies, fits into one suitcase and we have these suitcases because the Japanese government gave it as a donation to the hydrometeorological institution. At any moment, we were able to know what concentrations of polluting substances were like in the Danube and there was no danger of monitoring being conducted and the situation getting out of hand. We had a very clear and precise analysis of events and actions to be taken if this or that happened. Don't mind me, but I think it's incorrect to say – I came to the board to promote myself. For me, it is an accident in Hungary and the fact that there is an objective danger of Serbia poisoning chemicals does not represent anything promotional. It represents a demonstration of all of us together, and you, the MPs, and the committees and all the professional services and all the ministries that we say in public that whatever happens, we are not responsible, but let's see how we can correct the consequences of not having anyone get hurt. It was a demonstration of it and nothing else. I'll come to the board every time we make a deal and there's a need for it. You've opened up a lot of other questions. I think it's incorrect that you're waving the 2009 Lifetime Report, which is about the entry parameters at the beginning of 2009 and saying something that is, believe me, clear to everyone. It is clear to all that the "Let's Clean Serbia" action is something that is good. You can argue that our laws don't work, you can argue that as a minister I'm not good, you can say this or that, but an action that meant hiring hundreds of thousands of people to clean up their yard and the fact that we succeeded in Serbia for the first time to organise an action in which volunteers participated, not for the first time, but for the first time in the last few years, which have united around one topic, which is – we want a cleaner environment. We've managed to clean thousands and thousands of wild dumps and call it easier, you know what, everyone can walk through and through roads and streets and see that there used to be a wild dump, now it's gone, everyone can see that, in every municipality you can see. Through the Clean Serbia action, we were able to clean up more than 65% of the wild dumps. One minute they were gone. Unfortunately, some of them have recharged. Unfortunately, we still have a lot of problems and the need to invest huge money to establish a system of coverage of our territory with municipal services, to get that garbage truck to every household in Serbia ahead of which there is an adequate container in which citizens can insert waste. Unfortunately, Serbia is currently covered by 40%.50%, depending on the municipality. There are municipalities that are covered with 100%. There are, unfortunately, municipalities that only cover 20%. These are our objective problems and as we discussed yesterday on wastewater treatment and this is one of the things that requires huge investments. You asked me what regional dumps were open during this government's term. When I became a minister, we had two dumps that fit European standards and that were open and that worked. It was a dump in Vranj and a dump in Kickinda. These were two dumps that later became regional dumps that met European standards. Meanwhile, the open dumps in Lapovo, Leskovac, Jagodina were completed, but not yet opened, and in Pancheva. At this moment, the “Deep” dump is being built near Užica, which covers seven municipalities, will be opened during this year, then deposited in Novi Varoša, Sremska Mitrovica, Petrovac, Sombor, Subotica, Indjija, Zajecara, Vrsac. By the end of the term of office of this government, we will cover most of Serbia's territory with a waste disposal system, which will mean that the waste ends in dumps from which drains will not pollute our water streams, dumps from which the evaporation will not pollute our population. It's a huge success and no one can slow it down. In addition, in the 20 largest cities in Serbia, we will open recycling centres that will include primary and secondary waste separation and the transportation of this waste to recycling. At this point, 100% of tires, car tyres generated in Serbia's territory, are going to recycling. A hundred percent of the batteries, generated in Serbia's territory, are going to recycling. All of these are the results. It wasn't a few years ago. At this point, several plants are being opened to recycle electrical and electronic waste. The result was zero when we left. We will, I'm sure, cover about 70% of the total waste by the end of this government's term. Same thing with five-packs, big investments in progress. I'm sure with the investments in setting up primary waste selection containers and the waste separation -- which our citizens do very well, they like when you give them the opportunity to separate waste, they do -- we can cover one huge percentage of five-packs to go to recycling. We'll make visible results. For these visible results, we need good laws that are applicable in life, and that's what we're doing and that's why we're here. If it's your criticism -- you were here a year and a half ago, you passed laws, now you're going with changes and supplements, I accept it, but let me tell you something, none of the basic postulates of politics, which was promoted a year and a half ago in this assembly, has been changed. All these changes and additions of the law just serve to explain, simplify, speed up, make it easier for everyone, make it more reasonable and not fit for us all. Life as long as it takes, there will be so many amendments and additions to the law. This is true for these laws, and soon there will be mutual and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, with which we will again appear here without any shame and without any complex. Parliaments serve to adopt amendments and amendments to basic laws. What's the problem? What laws were once passed, which had been ruled for 20, 30 years and had never been needed for them, so now we have to do different kinds of interventions, where hundreds of laws must be put out of force, nothing is right and they have never lived in life. So we're making laws that need to live in life. For everyone else, with all due respect to you, my fellow MPs, related to Cicevic, to Smederevo, to the Zrenjanin issue, etc., you have to understand one thing, when we talk about Zrenjanin, I will say it the last time we're talking about a dump of dangerous waste, we're talking about a warehouse where the waste that comes from the household will be collected by almost all plastic packagings containing chemicals on the deposit system. So, a bottle of "dodestos", household powder, will have its own price, and as a citizen, you will be able to go back to that bottle. You'll get some money for that. That bottle will go to collect somewhere. We have these temporary centers where it's collected just to pack it up and take it to the final treatment. Dangerous waste in Serbia right now, believe me, unfortunately we don't have an industry that generates huge amounts of hazardous waste, the vast majority of the hazardous waste that is being generated today in Serbia comes from all of us together. These are drugs, these are chemicals we use in the kitchen, in the bathrooms, these are the things used in the farm to spray cockroaches and ants. It's got to be collected somewhere, and it's got to be transported somewhere, because if the system doesn't get organized, it's gonna end up at the dumps, so it's gonna end up in the waterways, in the air, in the land. So it will end up in our organisms and it must not be allowed. I'm staying open to all interventions. You must admit that we have accepted a significant number of amendments and continue to practice communicating with the opposition and we will accept, at best, whenever the amendments are in line with the policy we are promoting. This policy is good, we're sure of it. This policy gives results and can be seen. It's very difficult to change the minds of the citizens. It's very difficult to run actions that produce results. It is very difficult to bring new realities into the lives of our citizens. I think we're doing it slowly. The very fact that we have so much public attention in the debate on ecology that there is hardly any media today, no journalist that every day there is no news of ecology. That is to say, we have been able to awaken consciousness and start talking about this big problem. That's the result, and I think we've made some of our own little contribution and we've given it because of the clean Serbia action and the laws that we're presenting here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45800	The right to reply, MP Milan Dimitrijevic, and MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45801	Mr. Minister, no one has challenged the good idea "Let's Clean Serbia", I didn't say that for a moment. I challenged the effects and documented it with a report. Far from ever challenging any action or action of a similar kind, I'll always support it, but I'm looking at the effect of it. The effect of this, Mr. Minister, can be seen in a short relationship in Belgrade, to start from Žarkov to Barajev. The "Let's Clean Serbia" effect is seen here, not that it is not cleaned, but by the way, nothing daily new dump. That's what this is about. When you said that I had accused you of promotion, it is so in the sense that we had a firm agreement, Mr. Minister, that, after a committee which was convened by an emergency procedure, which is justified, in view of the ecological disaster in Hungary, the committee would meet within a few days. Has the board met? Did you show up on that board? You're not, Mr. Minister. And that's what we were supposed to discuss. Was there a threat of a new dam breaking, an even greater spill of waste, or toxic material? We didn't meet, we didn't talk about it. You had a lot of work to do. After all, now that we've started discussing these laws did we have a report from the board president, did we have a report from the vice president of the board? We didn't, Mr. Minister. Why didn't we? That's the question. Do you see the relationship?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45802	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic, so Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45803	Just about the environmental status report one more time to get along. It implies a time period called 2009, which is not a collection of information taken at the end of 2009, but as a collection of information taken during 2009. About the 2010 report, we'll sit down next year and here in parliament. You will see, when we talk about wild dumps, that this picture is significantly better, but no one has promised you or will ever promise that this picture will be such that the wild dumps will no longer be in Serbia. I don't create wild dumps, I'm sure neither are you. When you talk about specific examples, I can give you hundreds of examples that my nerves eat. When I go around Serbia and see that people continue to throw things away, not when they live in some villages far away, so they don't know what to do with their waste, so they push into a ditch, it's been there for decades, and it doesn't bother anyone, but when they're driving on a highway, when they cut the grass, when you see how many bottles from the car are thrown off the highway, which are standing and everyone knows that they won't be disintegrated in nature and that everyone knows that someone will have to come here to clean up, because it's an ugly picture of Serbia that when you cross the border, from any country to go, to see a catastrophic picture of our messy culture that is ruling here. So we want to change the image of Serbia through action, and we want to change that culture and point it out to everyone -- don't throw out the car window the things you ate, throw in some garbage. It was an idea of action and it will continue. We'll see the real results when the generation we're trying to educate and educate today is growing on greater awareness of environmental protection. As long as there are generations here who don't think about it, there won't be any greater effect, because it's impossible to teach people who pass over certain years that they should behave differently. That's what's really our problem. But okay, let's take it one step at a time, but don't prove to specific examples that the action didn't work out. The actions are generally successful and successful. I'm sure we can't clean up all the wild dumps in Serbia. It takes 10 years to do that. It will take us another 10 years to seriously invest in infrastructure, never to hear from wild dumps in Serbia again. We simply live in a country that has been abandoned for 20 years in investments, in municipal infrastructure, in water treatment facilities, in water factories, in regional dumps, in all this. Now we simply live with this problem and all you see around us are the consequences of these problems. But it's a good thing it's on its way. It had to go once and move now, and that's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45804	Replica Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45805	Madam Chairman, I'm sorry we didn't write written papers on the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law. Some here today got high marks. The Minister didn't scold them. I'm glad that we of the DSS deserved this ugly, because, simply, what we wrote and talked about was a very life story that was backed up by not some quasi-ist, Mr. Minister, as you would like to say, but by the names and last names and functions of the public, who came out publicly. I didn't want to intimidate the public, but I wanted to warn the public about what you're doing and what damage you're doing with the amendments to the Nature Protection Act. When I talk about who the names are, I'll tell you they're people from the University of Belgrade. It's the Faculty of Biology, it's signed by the people who are important, and I don't want to put them in an awkward position for you to be making them ugly right now. You probably got the letter. University of Novi Sad, Department of Biology and Ecology. They're not quasistrucians. I've heard here about how wonderfully we're working with NGOs, and all in order, we've opened the door for them, we've unearthed or what we've already done, and everything in order not to hear the true state of things. When I talked about things, I called on 35 environmental organizations in this country, signed by names and last names, so NGOs are dealing with nature protection. I read to you – "Avalum" Vršac, "Kekom" Subotica, Association of Young Researchers – Bor, Society for the Protection and Study of Birds of Vojvodina, Society for the Protection and Study of Fish – Novi Sad, Society for the Protection of the Environment – Stara Pirot, "Ecocentar" – Belgrade, "Ecocentar" – Aleksandrovac, "Ekolor" – Krčedin, "Ekogradac" – Valjevo, we are aware of Valjeva, "Ekoforum" – Belgrade, Ecological Movement "Ibar", Ecological House near Ibra, Ecological Movement "Bela Breza" from Kruševac, Ecological Society "Dračevo" – Guca, Ecological Society from Kragujevac, "Endemit" from Zemun, "Optimist" from Gornji Milanovac, "Grinbaj" from Valje, Group for the Development of Environmentalalties from Belgrade, Kraž, Kralj, Kraš, Kraš, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Kragić, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag, Krag. Should I read more? 35 of them? These are the names and last names of the people behind this, their public functions, they are not unknown people. When I was talking about the article that came out in the paper, I called in the newspaper where he went out. I didn't interpret him, I didn't convince him. I read what the article says and the man who is the president of the Serbia Environmental Movement Assembly. I'm sorry, it's not anything. There can't be anyone in a place like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45806	The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojakovic Milanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45807	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has for a little more than a year implemented six laws in the field of environmental protection pointed to certain problems in their application, insufficient demarcation of competence as well as the necessity for further harmonisation with European legislation. Therefore, it has been approached by amendments and additions to the laws that we are considering today. During the application of the Chemical Act, economic operators were observed to have problems applying. The adoption of sublegislative regulations revealed that certain solutions are not precise enough or that procedures themselves can be simplified and that these amendments and additions have been made. They do not deviate from the solution in European legislation. The principle is consistently implemented that the costs of testing the hazardous properties of chemicals, as well as other costs related to the placing on the market of chemicals, are borne by just the ones who put them on the market. By supplementing Article 6, the Agency for Chemicals, with the consent of the Government, prescribes closer to the criteria, method of accounting, height and payment of compensation for the verification of data from the chemical file and other activities. In addition, the Agency shall provide expert assessments and answers to the questions of economic operators. The changes also give a possibility for a foreign chemical producer to provide the agency with the necessary data, given that they can be a business or industrial secret. The paper is that economic operators are allowed to deliver a safety report, as well as a technical file, to the agency in English, which further reduces costs by saving on translation costs. Article 34 has also been amended, which obliges the supplier of dangerous chemicals to hire a chemical adviser, who handles the proper management of the same. There are similar reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Biocidal Code, clarification and simplification of certain procedures. The basic law takes decisions from European legislation and introduces authorisation for the placing of biocidal products on the market. Also, a positive list of active substances is taken over from European regulations. What is very important, the issuing of acts for the placing of biocidal products on the market, shall be carried out in front of the competent authorities of each country. It's with the Chemical Agency. The addition of Article 11 of the basic law allows the Agency not to allow the placing on the market of a biocidal product which is not sufficiently efficient, thus achieving greater consumer protection. This law also facilitates the process of obtaining acts for the placing on the market of biocidal products, so that more importers can apply together for the necessary documentation, which significantly reduces and lowers the procedure. The aim of both these laws is to further improve the uniform chemical management system, i.e. biocidal products, ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, improve the transport of these products with EU countries, ensure competitiveness and develop safer alternatives. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment aim to improve the uniform system of noise protection, as well as to distinguish competences, in particular in the work relating to the production of strategic noise maps, the production of action plans. Strategic noise maps are necessarily made for agglomeration with more than 100,000 inhabitants, for main roads with an average annual traffic flow of more than three million vehicles, for main railways with a flow of more than 30,000 trains per year and major airports. The creation of these tickets is provided by the Environmental Protection Agency. Action plans to protect from noise in the environment for road, air, rail, as well as areas along the state border are being carried out by the government. Action plan for agglomeration in the territory of units of local self-government, as well as facilities, activities for which an integrated permit is issued by units of local self-government, prepares and brings exactly that unit of local self-government. The aim of all measures of protection is to avoid and prevent, reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health and improve the quality of the environment in general. The amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act bring in several important newspapers that solve desperate problems in the present application. First of all, the responsibilities of the Environmental Protection Agency in the field of waste management, available necessary quantities, as well as secondary raw materials, shall be specified before it has also taken over the tasks of the Recycling Agency. It is also more clearly defined as the location of the facility for which integrated permits are issued. They're like that on the 182 preliminary list. These are plants for the production of cement, chalk, glass, ceramic products, slaughterhouses, animal waste disposal and recycling plants, food processing, wood and paper pulp, cardboard, textile, leather, carbon, electrograph, metal production and processing, chemical industry, energy production, asbestos production and asbestos products and materials for surface treatment of materials by using organic solvents. They are all obliged, by different dynamics, to obtain integrated permits as of 2014. The amendments to this law are required to obtain a waste management permit until an integrated authorisation is obtained. What I would particularly point out as extremely important, and what this law adopts is to specify the jurisdiction of the municipality in the field of integrated management of hazardous and inert waste, i.e. to trust competences in the field of management and authorisation of storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous and inert waste, if it occurs in its territory. This solution respects the application of the principle of proximity to waste management, whereby waste is treated or delayed as close as possible to the place of production to avoid adverse environmental effects during transport. The municipality is also entrusted with inspection supervision of inert and non-hazardous waste management activities, for which it issue a licence. It is also required that two or more units of local self-government be jointly provided and implemented by waste management, under conditions and in a manner established by law, strategy and agreement of local self-government units. The paper is that the legal person or entrepreneur who is subject to the authorisation for the management of waste must employ at least one qualified person responsible for the management of hazardous and dangerous waste. Given that there are only a few sanitary dumps in our country, 180 official dumps, dumps and hundreds, and probably thousands of wild waste dumps, that recycling, although normably regulated, is still under way, that 80-odd private-capital organisations are registered, we must understand that we are at the beginning of a task called integrated waste management. Constantly improving legislation in this area and reorganising existing businesses, including entrepreneurs, private and mixed enterprises, will increase competition and liberalise the service market, and employment in this relatively new area will increase. Amendments to the Law on Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment have been proposed for several reasons. Expansion of the scope of law enforcement, in addition to plans, programmes and the basis of higher planning documents such as sectoral strategies. Clearer lists of plans and programmes required for which strategic impact assessment and plans and programmes may be required to produce a strategic environmental impact assessment. The assessment must be made for plans and programmes and basics planned and implemented in space, which can lead to pollution of environmental factors or pose a risk to the environment and human health. The strategic impact assessment is developed for plans and programmes in the field of spatial planning and urban planning, land use, agriculture, forestry, fisheries, hunting, energy, industry, transport, waste management, water management, telecommunications, tourism, conservation of the natural habitats of flora and fauna. The strategic impact assessment report is an integral part of the planning documentation. In line with the EU Directive, it is required to avoid double regulation of a strategic assessment when plans and programmes are part of a broader hierarchical framework, respecting a higher hierarchical level. The holder of a strategic assessment report may be a legal person or entrepreneur who is registered in the relevant register for the performance of spatial and urban planning, designing of planning and other development documents. Public insight and debate are being organised in the context of the presentation of the plan, and the possibility of education of the expert commission is envisaged to assess the report on the strategic assessment. Following the one-year application of the Nature Protection Act, the need for more precise determination of terms, procedures, powers and obligations of protection entities or between the institutions of the protection regimes and the management system and the financing of protected areas was imposed. The proposed changes specify the terms: ecological network, ecological network "Natura 2000", ecologically significant area, as well as protection zone. The law does not introduce changes to the current rights, conditions and way of using natural resources, except for areas of ecological importance set up as the accompanying European environmental network "Natura 2000", which Serbia must fully establish and organise in its territory towards EU accession. In ecologically significant areas of Natura 2000, bans and restrictions are established for programmes, plans, projects and activities with a significant adverse impact on certain habitats and populations of wild plants and animals. This is done in practice through an assessment of acceptability, whose implementation starts in two years and after establishing the limit of ecologically significant areas. It shall specify the content of acts in the conditions of nature protection issued by the Nature Protection Institute. The release process is two degrees, thus achieving legal certainty. The classification of protected areas which are significant as habitats for rare bird species and other migratory species is specified, in accordance with international regulations and EU directives. The categorisation of protected areas, as well as the three-stage protection regime, with precisely established activities prohibited or restricted in protected areas shall be introduced. It is clearly defined management of protected areas. The manager can be a legal person, but also an entrepreneur and a physical person. It is also possible to establish a public enterprise, an institution or a company to which management will be entrusted as a public business. More precisely, criteria and maximum amounts shall be defined based on the performance of the use of non-commercial facilities for rest, motor vehicles and vessels in the protected area. In the event of damage done, the ministry shall carry out compensatory measures on the cost of the operator of the activity, unless it removes the adverse effects on nature. Exceptionally, despite a negative assessment of acceptability for plans, works and activities in nature, which have been identified by the prevailing public interest, can be allowed to be realised. Finally, the proposal for a laws on meteorological and hydrological activity stems from the 1990 Law that has so far regulated this area. In addition to this law, some meteorological, hydrological affairs, responsibilities and functions, which are within the scope of the Republic hydrometeorological institution, are regulated by other laws, and there are a whole series of international contracts in this area, which our country has ratified. This law allows, while respecting the international principles on which meteorological and hydrological activity rests, to regulate, on new grounds and in a comprehensive manner, the monitoring, research of weather, climate and water, both in order to increase the safety of human life and the protection of material goods from these same functions of meteorological and hydrological elemental disasters and disasters, as well as in order to make more rational use of favourable weather and climate conditions and available water resources, as well as more efficient air and water protection than pollution. There is also a clear distinction between businesses of interest for the Republic of Serbia from other hydrological and meteorological affairs, which can be carried out by companies, other legal entities or entrepreneurs. A complex information system has been created that provides fully timely information on weather, climate, water, important for the protection of human life and material goods, traffic safety, especially air safety, as well as for numerous activities that depend directly or indirectly on the state, time, climate and water. This information system for the Republic of Serbia is also the basis for monitoring air pollution, water and phenomena that lead to land degradation, as well as the early announcement of acute radioactive and chemical cross-border pollution of the atmosphere and water. In particular, it should be pointed out that city control and development tasks of technical and technological time modification systems will be regulated by a special law, and the responsibility of the Republic hydrometeorological institution is to carry out this work until the adoption of that law. The law defines state networks of meteorological and hydrological habitats and networks of state laboratories, as well as the obligation to keep registers. The Institute has clearly defined competences and is a sub-regional climate change centre for Southeast Europe. All these laws that are the fruit of the desire to improve legislation as best as possible in the field of environmental protection, thus improving the quality of life of all our citizens, and these laws will support MPs of the ZES Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45808	15 minutes of MP time was used. National MP Zivojin Stankovic has asked for a change in order due to earlier commitments, so he will speak later. Now there is the word of the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, and after that, the People's Messenger, Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45809	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, today when the green light is turned on on at Serbia's European light, we are discussing several very important European laws that will further speed Serbia's path to the EU and make us truly ready to accept the challenges and temptations that await us when we join the EU. Obviously, in spite of the efforts and regrets of political parties, the world and planets are moving in the direction of progress, Serbia follows this path, and the obstacles that we have to overcome together by adopting such a law, not to meet the expectations of someone in the world, but to create conditions in Serbia, in order to preserve in Serbia the resources that the good Lord has given us, that in Serbia we can preserve those resources that we want to leave behind, above all our children. Of course, such a responsible approach results in the adoption of responsible laws. I would first of all have to congratulate Mr Dulic, because I live in the same Serbia where my fellow MPs who have not followed the effects of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action live. Just because we've cleaned up some of the dumps, and we've cleaned up a large number doesn't mean that people who have different access to merits and the preservation of the environment and the dump don't make it today. Maybe even now someone's unloading the trailer somewhere where it's not allowed, but that doesn't mean we have to say -- well, wait, we're not going to stand up to it and not try to clean up this beautiful country of ours and save the resources we have. We are today passing several laws, and above all speaking about a law that is very important, means from the aspect of our accession to the European Union, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management and Law, which is also a very important proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. It is very important that by adopting this law, Serbia has access to the Natura 2000 project, which will show responsibility for us to define our ecosystems, to preserve and adapt them, not only to keep these ecosystems sustainable, but to be preserved, to underline -- for generations that have not yet been born. We show a really great responsibility when it comes to natural resources. We show great effort, perseverance, enormous effort and efforts to bring together, despite the huge set of laws we have on the agenda, which await us, when it comes to EU accession, all these laws in agreement with interested individuals, NGOs and citizens. However, very often law-making, especially the speed of passing these laws, is criticised. That's how it is today in this room. Serbian citizens, if they followed previous statements, you had a number of criticisms at the expense of these laws. On the other hand, you did not have the opportunity to see that someone sat down and said – so here I have a suggestion what the law should look like, so here I am going to offer the Assembly and there is no initiative to say okay if we are not satisfied with this law, let's say that I am not satisfied with this law sitting down and writing the law. The Democratic Party, when it was in opposition, will only remind, above all, the citizens of this country, wrote laws, gave legislative proposals and initiatives, even supported those laws that it considered to be good and which it had clear confidence that these laws were passed for the sake of the country's well-being. The word criticism stems from Greek words and roots and words in Greek translation mean trial and judgment. In order for someone to criticize, to say that one law is wrong, he must first of all have a certain experience based on that law, and certain knowledge. The most common criticism comes only from the desire to fix the law, but comes from the desire that the law and the effort to write the law belittled, degraded, to show that it is one barren act. We don't pass laws that will be a dead letter on paper, we make laws that will apply, and due to the speed we make laws, it often happens that certain laws should be complemented, because in practice there are certain shortcomings. We don't avoid responsibility in that. We are also correcting these laws and so is the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Noise. I must point out that by passing this law, which we did last year, and these changes, we will significantly improve the quality of life of people in cities and large urban areas, because noise has become something that significantly disrupts the quality of life of people in urban environments. However, what I must mention, when we talk about laws that speed up the path towards the European Union, we have certainly exhausted all legislative activity when it comes to the preservation of the EU. It is only now that we are speeding up this pace and I will only remind Mr. Dulic when he was president of the Assembly, we had an unfortunate Rules of Procedure when we were prevented from passing these laws at a certain pace. When I said that we had turned that green light on towards the European part, the citizens of Serbia, that light will not suddenly shine, on the contrary, it is already warning and requires much more speed in work and much more serious access to lawmaking, not just these authorities, but opposition and all those people who want this country to move forward. That is why it is clear to me that a few days ago, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, congratulated the citizens and congratulated him on what he did and I have no dilemmas. All I know is that I can congratulate all those people who sit in the ministries and give us the laws of adoption, because with such activity and such work we show responsibility, not only to the resources of this country, but also to the future of this country. Finally, Mr. Dulic, allow me not only to thank you for the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, but also to your associates, especially Mr. Avramov, who is always at the service of the MPs that some of the current things are directly, when phone communication is needed, we speed up and end up with people who care about it in Serbia and at that moment are allowed to do so. So, once again, all congratulations on passing laws and legislative proposals and another thank you to Mr. Avramov for understanding, and also to your people from the ministry for a great understanding of coming out to meet people from Serbia, especially when it comes to some important things and the export of agricultural products.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45810	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of MP time were used. The word is Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45811	Dear Vice-Presidents, members of the Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the Ministry, fellow Members of Parliament, we have a set of environmental laws before us, and in my presentation I will talk about amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. What are the key reasons for this law, and why am I voting for this set of laws? Before that, I have to draw attention to some of the things that happened in earlier discussions, it's just amazing that there are cheap political points on one of these issues. I would like to remind you that in 2008, a set of environmental laws was passed in the Croatian Parliament, which was voted on from 112 to 135 MPs, out of 150 of them in the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, citizens and citizens of our country and how they understood the importance of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action and I will only remind myself that more than 200,000 people participated in the action, that schools, public enterprises, private companies, government employees, NGOs and citizens participated. The Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning declared the municipality of Strpce as the most successful municipality in the action, as even 15% of the population contributed to this action. Why is it important to deal with this subject? In all sociological studies, it is noted that green areas play an important role in individual life and provide a sense of satisfaction. Research conducted among residents of major cities shows that 90% of respondents listed the direct proximity of green areas as the most significant quality. During 12 hours of daylight, the leaves averagely produce about four liters of oxygen per square metre of the leaf surface. The man spends an average of 175 kilograms of oxygen a year, which is about 335 liters a day. Now I'm going back to the Nature Protection Act. What are the key reasons for this law? Amendments and additions to this law simplify procedures in the design and adoption of acts of nature protection. It is easier to resolve conflicts between stakeholders and the issue of compensation. The third thing is, there is a stronger responsibility for the managers of the protected areas. A system for collecting compensation for the use of protected areas is organised and a more successful conservation and sustainable use of natural values, the spread of awareness regarding nature protection is achieved. What is the analysis of the effects of this law? The strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia in the EU accession process is to bring domestic regulations in line with EU rules, as well as to ensure a system for the application of the laws adopted. The application of this law should improve and improve the preconditions for sustainable use and protection of natural resources, in a way that balances between activity and man, on the one hand, and the preservation of nature and its values, on the other hand. What problem is solved by this law? An acceptance assessment shall be introduced in accordance with the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive, for plans and projects, providing for more active public participation, providing protection regimes in protected areas, establishing common elements of the fixing of compensation. What goals should be achieved by passing this law? First, the conditions of nature protection are specified, legal certainty is achieved for all participants in the process, conditions are created for the planned and rational use of natural resources, precise restrictions are laid down that lead to the conservation of the balance in nature. Amendments and additions to this law do not create additional monetary obligations for citizens and provide fair compensation for the damage done. Economic operators shall receive a reasonable period of two to three years for the production of studies and the conduct of environmental impact assessment procedures. What are the positive effects of lawmaking? The long-term conservation of natural ecosystems and natural balances is achieved, which is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. The implementation of this law, most importantly, does not require additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. On this set of environmental laws, I have submitted three amendments that specify more precisely certain members of the law and I hope that they will be accepted. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, as well as all other laws in this very important area, should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45812	Five minutes of MP time was used. National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45813	I was the only one who spoke in a negative context, so I recognized myself, my colleague, since I can take a little intellectual note of what's going on in the O.R. So, I have to ask the chairman if it's possible that we're still, I went out for a moment, so I'm not sure we're still in the principle debate on a set of seven laws? I will remind you, Biocidal Act, Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, Waste Management Act, Environmental Impact Assessment, Law on noise protection in the environment, Act on Nature Protection and the Law on Meteorological and Hydrometeorological Activities. I'm confused because there's talk of everything, just not the laws that are on the agenda. I must remind my distinguished colleague Milovanovic, who is obviously not informed, that in 2009, this rare case, which took place in the Croatian Parliament when the opposition and the position voted in favour of the laws on nature protection, also happened in our parliament. He probably wasn't there, and he's taking it easy now. This parliamentary group is now criticising very carefully because it has something to criticise and because there are so many bad things that we need to talk about publicly and openly and very accurately, and I quote them. I hope you didn't skip that part where I'm very specific about what I'm criticizing. We voted for those laws. So we didn't get cheap and expensive political points. What I'm saying right now is, I have been behind the very names of people of science, people of NGOs who have been and how they have dealt with this topic for many years and have not been inexperienced in this area, and of course some who have written the laws. I'm sorry, I must have gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45814	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45815	I'm really sorry that you recognized yourself in this, but I was even talking about discussing such laws where one consensus is needed and where it is done in other parliaments. On the assembly boards we have these topics and what provoked me, why I mentioned it, it is a criticism of the action "Let's Clean Serbia", in which I participated as many of my countrymen from the city where I came from, which was very successful and the effects of this action are seen in the municipality of Kučevo where I come from today.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45816	Right on line, MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45817	My colleague, I am not going your way, every day I return to the Ibar highway from Belgrade to Valjevo, so the effects of this action are not visible in that part where I pass. I have also participated in many "Let's Clean Serbia" actions since I was in primary school, so until today I will probably continue to do so, regardless of who is behind the action. Looks like it's a good idea for me to reroute you, so you can take the Ibar highway.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45818	On the basis of Articles 87 and 90 of Section 2, I shall set a break of just over an hour. So, we finish our morning work now and continue at 3:00 p.m., and we'll do after 6:00 p.m. [[After break – 3 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon debate according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled review of the proposals for the law between the 4th and 10th points of the agenda. The People's Messenger Zoran Babic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45820	I would take this opportunity to congratulate St. Friday on all the families who celebrate the glory of Christ today. Also, I would like to congratulate the party's fame to my colleagues, members and supporters of the SNS, with a desire for good health, good luck and progress. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I assume it will arrive soon, waste management is a very attractive discipline that has been exploited in Serbia both in science and in the media and in the market. The fact is that waste was not seriously managed in Serbia, which is why we are lagging behind developed European and world countries and countries for some 50 years. Our long-standing practice was to just take the waste out of the public's sight and toss on some recent wild dump, which is little or most often not controlled. The number of wild dumps, depending on the source, ranged from 2400 to 4400, according to the survey of competent inspections, which is a very large number for the country of Serbia's size. Instead of the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, which we are talking about today, I would rather discuss a document that would define the rhythm and deadlines of building a system of regional dumps. Sanitary dumps exist in Leskovac, Kikinda, Lapovo and Pancheva, are being built in Užica, Piroth and Sremska Mitrovica. But what about other municipalities and cities, when will the time come for us? In Vrnjačka Banja, the tourist site of the first category, between 25 and 30 tonnes of waste is collected daily, equivalent somewhere between 60 and 70 cc's of various garbage deposited into depression caused by exploitation, i.e. by exploitation of gravel next to the West Morava trough. The waste shall be deposited without any pre-treatment, no foil, no biotrons, even though there is a solution to a several-year-old Republic environmental inspector, which prohibits the disposal of garbage in that manner and in that location. As the long-standing technical director of the "White Source" of Vrnjačka Banja, I am aware of all the dangers of this problem and do not think that the burden of the unresolved waste management issue in Vrnjačka Banja I want to move to the current administration run by Vrnjačka Banja. The problem of inadequate waste disposal is at least 20 years long and has outlived many administrations that have changed at the head of Vrnjakka Banja. I'm just trying to animated Mr. Dulic, as resolute minister, to help us, because the Vranjack Banja municipality budget, which is at 400 million dinars a year, can't make such an investment. Although it is not the subject of this set of draft laws, Vranjska Banja also has a problem with waste sewers, which are poured directly into West Morava without any pre-trasses or deposits, although only a few kilometers downriver our neighbours from Triestenik use that same water as the drink. The author of this draft law in Article 4 provided that two or more units of local self-government are to be agreed and jointly provided and implemented by waste management. Otherwise, on a proposal from the ministry, or the competent authority of the AP, the government of the Republic of Serbia will do so. But what you didn't predict, that's citizens' resistance. A syndrome called - nothing in my yard, it doesn't exist just in Serbia, it's not just us who invented it, but it exists in the West, where environmental consciousness is at a much higher level. It's in our citizens' minds to get rid of the waste, but not in their backyard, but somewhere in the neighborhood, probably. That resistance is perfectly normal, so it's everywhere in the world. What I did not recognize in this bill, which is the need for citizens living in dump areas to help them get some other infrastructure, but also the need to carry out an education that would remove justifiable fear. As an example, I again cite my end, the relationship between Vrnjaka Banja and Trstenik municipalities, where local self-government has been trying for 15 years to agree on a common dump. However, we are not successful, because the people of Triestenik do not want Vrnjaka Banja trash on their territory. I understand them, and I am afraid that strict implementation of this law, especially the position of Article 4(2), would be faced with a series of blockades or some other outbursts of dissatisfaction. If this problem is even solved by strict application of the law or agreement, which I believe is the goal of all of us, we come to another problem, which is the state of the utility fleet. Special motorcars are on average, in Serbia, 12 and 15 years old on average, and I'm sure they wouldn't be able to handle day-to-day transportation of garbage to destinations 30-40km longer than they are now. The new car crasher costs about 100,000 euros, the transfer of the garbage transport station is not cheap, and local self-government is getting poorer. I'm afraid we're going to face the problem that, although a regional dump is being built, a large number of public enterprises won't be able to transport the collected waste. The system of regional dumps is definitely something we need, and that's the base of waste management. If we look at Europe, and we should look at it, that question is absolutely out of line. The EU countries are already at the stage of development that allows them to reduce the number of dumps. So what I think is that we need to work intensively on this, and not only declaratively, but also practically, that through composting, or treatment of biodegradable waste, recycling, insineration, we are reducing the amount of waste that ends up on dumps. These technologies are not cheap, waste insineration costs 100 euros per tonne, plasma technology treatment costs about 80 euros per tonne, and taking out garbage in Serbia costs 30 euros per household per year, which is an average that differs from the municipality to the municipality. It is therefore necessary to engage more strongly in addressing this problem. Although I come from such a public utility company, I must admit that the great generator of this problem lies in these very public enterprises. The problem of overemployment and the great impact of policy on the work of these public enterprises. The problem is also in expertise, because there were no higher education institutions that educated personnel from this area. Politics, unfortunately, plays a crucial role in the selection of these personnel, so the waste deals with people who finished biology, philosophy, philosophy, anything else. Communal business managers often think that the peak and end of work is cleared of the street or the empty container. But that's when work comes to life. There is no optimisation of the route, which would reduce fuel consumption and speed up work. Because of the financial situation, good trucks are not bought that fit the type of settlement, but are bought and selected as cheap trucks as possible. Waste management is a big business, the US waste market is worth about $60 billion, I really don't have accurate information or an estimate of the value of the waste market in Serbia. But what this law has not defined and does not solve is a dilemma -- whether it should be a state issue, a matter of local self-government or a private person. In the end, what I must also commend is that you have provided in article 6 that a qualified person responsible for the professional work for managing hazardous waste is a person who has not been punished for any crime. This is progress in relation to a legal solution that provides that a municipal police officer can be a legally convicted person to a prison sentence of up to three years. So this is definitely a high-quality shift. Because of such guffs that unfortunately have the weight of the law, we have problems in selecting municipal police officers, say the city of the Kings. I welcome that you have accepted some SNS objections and have not made such a mistake again in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45821	Nine minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, followed by the National Messenger Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, the minister is gone, here we go, we want the minister to attend and, if he's around, invite him and we'll begin the debate. The basic laws you have proposed, these eight environmental laws, we as Republic MPs cannot at this moment define to detail, or explain as we should, because of the time, because of all the circumstances in which we and you participate. In a short flight, I will comment on a few laws from our corner, as we see it, and what we propose to do specifically about this whole set that you proposed here exactly 18 months ago, that is, which we as Republic MPs have attacked here, wanted to improve all these activities that are related to environmental protection, but we have failed for a variety of reasons, and you are now back on that same topic, or you want to fix certain members of those laws that you think you need to fix. The basic reasons for the amendment of this Chemical Act stemmed from difficulties in its application. The promoter says that changes and additions do not essentially change the law. There are some termological coordinations and, for example, the mandatory engagement of counselors. They're ad hoc remarks about this chemical law. There are also technical comments related to English, where we believe that Serbian language is constitutional fluid and that is how these laws should be treated. Our complaint is about professional issues, which aim to make up for professional compensation. It's actually the birth of jurisdiction regarding this law. The biocidal product is an active substance or mixture containing one or more active substances, prepared in the form in which users are supplied, whose purpose is to chemically or biologically destroy, make them harmless, prevent or control undesirable organisms. This part I have commented on because of the general public that people know what a biocidal product is, which is what these biocidal products are dealing with, which is what this law deals with. This law was passed last 2009 and today is before us again in parliament. We told you then, we wrote amendments and you wrote nothing, just turn your head and move on. We've told you our amendments, if it can be fixed, you're not listening to anyone from the opposition. We know you're self-sufficient and that we're just an interior in that democracy of yours. Basically, it's not like you see, after 18 months, you're doing corrections, not only of this Biocidal Products Act, but of today's entire set. Biocidal products must no longer be advertised under this new amendment and supplemental proposal, but you have found the right expression, which is to advertise, Article 1. Let's move on, for professional evaluations there must be a fee. Who? Now the EU appears, which grants approval for the placing on the market of these biocidal products. When you solve it now it is up to us customers to buy this product, if we have anything to buy it, not to buy it as you do with the IMF by system – I come to you. When, how and how many, no one knows yet except Djelic and Dinkic. Of course the agency would do something, and you trust her with classified information, and you know that there are no more confidentialitys in the world, it's all known right now. That's what you predicted for a member of the 5th of this law. Now comes the system of advocacy. It's a language. It can also be done in Serbian or European, and English is required. There are these products that are not very effective, because they destroy the environment the way Americans and the EU did when they bombed the sun. Now the Agency is slowly dismembering and creating a new value, and this is a representative whose work costs and needs to be high-level for the area. Now the law must be translated into Serbian, Article 10, in the European Union. When you organize all of this, there are no more quantities of biocidal products, but this quantity is being dissolved into the total turnover of the biocidal product that it achieved in the previous year. But who, who made it happen? In Article 12, you comment on who will give an expert opinion and analysis of the properties and purposes of certain biocidal products. Article 13. You predict that compensation is paid, advertising is no more, now advertising is in effect. By Article 16, you regulate the word – profit and it now becomes traffic, and that total traffic of biocidal products. Article 17 in the attitude of the 3rd old member of the 44th word "ecotoxicogoly" is replaced by the word "ecotoxicology", meaning the same thing, nothing changes. The reasons why you suggested amendments and the additions are the making of sublegal regulations and acts. You have consulted Swedish experts from this area under "A", and you consider our consultants and experts as "G", and we suggest you consult both Russian profession and science in this area. Regarding these biocidal products, we advocate, for example, that Serbia's noise increase. That law was supposed to include certain elements in that law, which could encourage, and it is related to everything for biocidal products. For example, a population of 5,000 will be disinfected if a hectare of pliers is found in it. The message is, raise the woods. The pine forest in one centimetre of cubic air has 200 times less harmful microorganisms than one cubic centimetre here in Belgrade. Our ancestors used biocidal products in nature, for example, the operating room in World War II was in an open oak forest, because of the tannins that have these properties to prevent the spread of negative organisms. I've made this all in comment so that the general public and people know what biocidal products are and in what sense they should function. Waste Management Act. And in this law you've seen certain problems, so you suggest that you simplify this law so that everything that's related to the waste can be resolved in the grace period by 2015. We know from the environmental protection report that there are over 4,000 dumps in Serbia and that the problem needs to be solved as soon as possible. Will these changes finally stop the political excursions that are visiting Europe and which aim to transfer European waste management to our territory? That's not gonna happen. I suggest that the minister and his team go through and make an emergency analysis, especially for dumps and dumps located in protected areas of nature, such as national parks and natural reserves, and give them priority, if this is related to the operation of this law. Dangerous waste is both professionally and at the state level to be delayed, so as not to come into the hands of various financial mechanics, which will allow trade to delay this waste in places where it cannot be delayed at any cost. Maybe this is just a dangerous game with dangerous waste, and it could be worse than that. The Nature Protection Act. He is the crown of this set, and this law on nature protection has a big message, and we of the SRS fear that you will do great harm to citizens when you adopt this law, and especially to protected parts of nature. The draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act has been adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning without any consultation with the profession. This is confirmed by a letter sent by a group of scientists and highly-quoted people from Serbia, who appeal to the Ministry that this law and a member of the 35th and a member of the 57th law, respectively. 13th and 28th. The bill redefines in favour of protected parts of nature. If it was done under the veil -- they won't notice it all, the law was set on the site in August 2010 when everyone who could comment was on vacations. The draft law adopted by the Government on 28.9.2010 and the proposal to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act differs dramatically from the version given to the public on the Ministry's website. Why are you acting like this? Who's gonna believe you, and if it's true, when it's true? The proposal to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act brings a lot of space for the destruction of nature in protected areas. Who does that belong to? We know you're not capable, nor are you able to escort the area of environmental protection in human and economic terms. She demands hard work and great money. The European Union is asking us to protect 12% of the territory. In Serbia, only 6% is protected. We may somehow be able to protect 1% or 2% more, practically destroying or at least significantly disrupting areas to the point where we no longer have anything to protect. Of the already existing protected areas under the third protection regime, there are over 80% of the surface, under the second slightly over 15%, while under the first protection regime it is barely slightly more than 2%. If the new law comes into force, only that 2% will remain protected, everything else will be settlements and factories, ski centres and trails, lakes for artificial snow, who knows what. When 2% of the area of protected space is transferred to Serbia's territory, there is 0.01% of the territory. In February 2009, we submitted 21 amendments to this Nature Protection Act. And this year, we have submitted to this law a number of amendments that we want to stop the erosion and the destruction of the environment. You have not accepted in the previous proposals of our amendment, and today they are the basic reason for the "excessive and supplemental" of this law. Who needs changes and supplements? The reason you know, and we're sure you're doing this because of the great desire for space treated by this law, which makes the future market a construction operation. Belgrade has occupied more than 80,000 hectares and it is expanding, and you have no space. These days and here in the heart of Belgrade, you have provided complete documentation by emergency procedure to build a small town of four thousand and more inhabitants. This suggests that when you need any area in a protected area, you will use the Government and the Ministry to provide legal certainty for your ideas and goals. "Natura 2000" is the backbone of these changes. Who is this "Natura 2000" and what does it represent for our people? Nothing and nobody, but for you it's something and someone. Why didn't you in law design a member of this proposal to seek out the damage that has been done to us and from which generations they will suffer, which is bombing. Among other and protected areas, the damage is worth two hundred billion euros and this value should be charged in some future time by those representing themselves as "Natura 2000" and the EU. It is unacceptable and very harmful in the long term that this small and valuable part of the country's surface is now destroying for the purposes of unsustainable economic development or other current partial interests, by allowing many by nature extremely threatening and inconsistencies that lead to distortions and irreversible changes in protected natural resources, a space from invaluable ecological, aesthetic, scientific, cultural and educational significance. These proposed solutions deviate from the general objectives of the existing law and even more than internationally accepted standards and good practice in this area. Most of them fall into the eyes of an art. 35 and 57 of the applicable law, i.e. Articles 13 and 28. The draft laws are not in line with the essential purpose of protected areas in the nature protection system. In one daily newspaper, the inscriptions "Serbian national parks ideal for nuclear waste disposal". Serbia's environmentalists have come forward and say the state and the small-door ministry are introducing the largest nuclear waste dump in Europe from Fruska Gora. The excitement then stopped, no more environmentalists advertised. Why? The proposed amendments to the law are a step back, instead of removing operational disadvantages, you offer something that further complicates the alignment of new positive solutions and the situation found. Political laymen, unprofessional personnel from the local level to the ministries, you've said it yourself on several occasions, consider themselves scientists from this area, but basically it's not like that. The first-degree protection regime in protected natural goods in the Nature Protection Act meant strict protection, while the proposal allows some of the tourism activities, totally unacceptable in the strict protection zones. You have examples that in these protected areas of intact nature, when anyone from the ruling coalition comes up with or devises a nebulose, he immediately goes there to build. What they're going to build, they know it themselves, and the citizens of Serbia know it. The third-degree protection regime in the Nature Protection Act entailed active protection activities and the possibility of sustainable use, while in Article 13. The proposal "limited" is not prohibited, implementing a large number of completely unsustainable activities that completely devastate protected natural goods and thus a system of nature protection in Serbia under a sustainable development password. Protection regime, as prescribed in Article 13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Nature is harshly different from the fundamental provisions of the law itself. The above mentioned activities are incompatible with the principles and provisions of the International Convention, which the Republic of Serbia ratified: Convention on Biological Variety, Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Biological Variety, Convention on the Conservation of Migration Species, Convention on the Conservation of Wild flora and fauna and natural habitats, etc. The proposal for a Law on the Protection of Nature fully annuls the efforts and results achieved in the painful process of the protection of national natural heritage and interrupts continuity in the period of favourable legal solutions in this area dating back to the 1990s, Article 49. A law on environmental protection. This law proposes that the minister modify the tax, i.e. entering a protected space, and that it be unique throughout Serbia's territory. This is not a bad idea when we know that all protected spaces in Serbia are in a very difficult economic state. We felt that this law would regulate and finance protected parts of Serbia and space and would end the eternal torment with the functioning and operation of these areas. In particular, national parks in Serbia must be financed from Serbia's budget, with long-term plans and programmes, to reach all planned activities in those areas. Do not constantly feel that one or two percent of the total realised income from the protected space is enough to make that space work. Provide money and invest for future generations that will probably take better care of these protected areas than you. I had so much to say, but there's a lot to comment on about these laws. On the Committee on Environmental Protection, we wanted to try to distract both the Minister and the Ministry of All these objections that could be incorporated into the amendment section today, that is to say that through some amendments, not everything can be fixed, but we have failed to establish contact with the Minister on that committee. We were sorry. There are many open questions on which we, as republican MPs, will seek answers from the minister, and at this point we do not have time. These are many open questions regarding this set of laws that are on the agenda today and on other issues, which may be mentioned today by someone just such a flyer, which are open and related to this ministry and environmental protection. When the budget was, we also proposed in the budget to increase the budget in relation to environmental protection and to increase the budget for agriculture, so that this sphere of environmental protection and agriculture could function as nature predicts, i.e. not to disrupt this natural cycle by any individual or group of individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45823	21 minutes and 20 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word is a folk letter from Zlata Đeric, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Đorđe Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45824	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, a year and a half after the adoption of the system laws governing environmental protection and sustainable development, we are ahead of something that we and then predicted would happen, which I don't consider flawed, because, of course, in walking, we need to fix everything we've discovered that there are imperfections. So we're facing changes and additions to most of those laws that we adopted back then. What I must point out as a positive is that, above all, my parliamentary group then very actively participated in amendments to these laws and with a great understanding of the minister, a large number of amendments by our parliamentary group were adopted. What is a compliment for us at this point, none of the members of the laws to which we have then submitted amendments and which have been amended by our amendments are now in the process of amending and supplementing, which I see as a very responsible and very far-sighted approach to our parliamentary group and a serious contribution to these legal solutions. This is one of the youngest areas governed by the laws and, listening to the minister, its explanation of why changes and additions were made, I accepted it with extreme respect, although I heard that because of the inaccuracies and inaccuracies, the gaps, especially those in the case of integrated permits, the extension of powers and other shortcomings in the laws so far, or all of those shortcomings that have proved to be in practice as a disturbance in law enforcement, have been approached by amendments and additions to these six laws and the adoption of a new law that has not been adopted in this form in this House, the proposal for a bill on meteorological and hydrological action in Serbia. So we have six laws before us, or a proposal to amend and supplement laws in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development. The first among them is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act, in which we have not really seen that there are some serious interventions, other than those that relate most to termological changes, so advertising, which is a foreign word, is replaced by the word advertising. I wouldn't comment on the substance and content of that idea. It'll probably be a practice after that. The draft law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act has shown that it has produced a lot of problems, especially in business entities, and is now accessible to changes and additions that should facilitate its application in life, i.e. that all these laws make sense, only if they really live in practice and if they can really be applied, which was the aim of passing laws in this high home. The law on strategic environmental impact assessment is a law that complies with European regulations and standards. With all these laws, we had to find out that they now comply with European regulations and standards. We were truly convinced that last year we had brought them into line with these standards and that all this was adapted to what was required of us, but now these are some new moments, which we were subsequently informed of. The law on protection against noise, very short changes and additions, very clear, even very necessary, and the Law on Nature Protection, where we believe that it is necessary to prevent certain inadmissible activities and to account for more, to pay more attention to the amendments submitted by colleagues from different parliamentary groups, as far as I know from position and from opposition, to some solution, because indeed this law should give an answer to how we will protect what is little good for such a small country, it is a great wealth, from further devasting, from further endangerment. The law on waste management, changes and additions is very extensive. These two laws, the Law on the Protection of Nature and the Law on Waste Management, Amendments and Supplements are greater than they were in time legal solutions, and all these arguments are much greater than changes and additions. In this waste management law, I would say, given that our consciousness is something that is the slowest thing to change, that we have a pretty big problem and that all countries have this problem that they face as technology develops more. It's a problem with the disposal of waste of every species, the bigger, the more we have, the more we could say it in plain folk language, the more we throw it away, so we have both communal, and electronic, and industrial, and slaughterhouses, and medical and construction waste, so we divide it into dangerous and harmless, etc. It is very difficult to regulate the area by law so that in the least possible way it endangers citizens, the good and nature that suffers the most. Every irresponsible and under-requisite nature gives catastrophic results. You know that the most banal cutting forest causes soil erosion, gravel theft and sand from the riverbeds brings about a change of cord streams, not to say the threat of bridges, etc., so that indeed this kind of responsibility and this kind of consciousness must be constantly and tirelessly raised by citizens and all those living in these areas, and we only care about what we do, the organization of our country and society. I will return only to a few members of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Management Act, which I believe should have been regulated differently. This was where the amendments were to be submitted. I believe that Article 1 has not brought any particular change, a member referring to an existing member of this law, and brings points 7, 8, i.e. amending points 7 and 8. Article 4, which refers to local self-government, I think it was necessary to come up with a different concept, because they are still too much now, and they will be more burdened and perhaps less cooperative in this way. This will be seen as a certain pressure from the government on its engagement and on its resources. We know that certain local self-governments are resisting the implementation of such measures, but there must be some kind of compromise and indeed a more successful solution to this problem. In Article 6, we have a problem that we can say is a sword with two blades. This is about facial qualification. We've got waste treatment. It's not the same to treat waste, if it's collecting five packagings and pressing them. There doesn't have to be an absolutely verifiable face, which you'll agree. If these five packagings are then processed, in some ways something is produced from it, then in any case, it is very important that the verification of that person will have. I think this member may have overly simplified the problem in that section of the qualification of a person who will deal with the waste. There should be very subtle and sensitive. In Article 10, there is some ambiguity, which I think you will remove, perhaps by accepting a good amendment, which refers to Article 42 of the existing Law on Waste Management position 6 after the word 'not allowed', the point is replaced by a comma and the words 'unless in the cases specified by a special regulation' are added. What regulation is that? Is that a regulation, is that a rulebook? It should, in any case, be fully precise in the law. In my opinion, perhaps the key amendment and addition of this law concerns Article 16 relating to Article 72 of the existing Law, which speaks at all about, I will only quote it briefly: "The Ministry shall decide upon the request for the approval of imports, exports and transit of waste on the basis of the facts contained in the documents submitted under the request, taking into account in particular" and then list what it takes into account, and then there is something about secondary raw materials. The notion of secondary raw materials; it must be clearly, precisely defined as secondary raw materials, and there are standards under which something is defined as secondary raw materials. I think what they are is secondary raw materials here must be determined by one serious study, which is secondary raw materials for us. These are some of the remarks that we have essentially practicalally on these amendments and additions to the laws that are before us. I propose to the Minister that he take a very studioy look at all the amendments, of course, and our amendments, which we have submitted to certain members of the law, expecting, in the same way as he was, a year and a half ago, co-operative in the adoption of amendments and that he accepted the amendments that applied and essentially changed some members of the law into even better members of the law. It is in everyone's interest that every member of the law and every law has a starting point for the citizens of Serbia, that this time also accept all those amendments to legal solutions that will make it even better. I think that walking will be what Mr. Minister has just said, more changes to these laws, that this is a young area and that we are all learning together, that we are all looking together for what is best for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. I don't think there's ever enough concern, especially in these circumstances about the environment we live in. It is more and more endangered from day to day, and it is not only because of any political will or action, but simply because technological development and expansion are such that we are very endangered and very irresponsible, often unbecoming management of it. What I'm interested in, and I haven't seen in these changes and supplements before us, and I'd really like to hear from Mr. Minister, because that's something that makes the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I welcome all these intentions behind the changes and additions. It is only in the end that we as a parliamentary group will we define whether we will support these laws, when we see how truly they are repaired and what is the ultimate outcome of what they will bring to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm interested, and that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are interested in, what about the most dangerous waste, which will now be the subject of some manipulation, whether or not it is, what it is and whose intention it is. The one who is in Serbia, who has arrived at NATO bombing, all those places as safe as possible, what are they doing in terms of questioning, reviewing, determining the harmfulness of this waste, the removal and all that Serbia's citizens are definitely suffering? The consequences are serious, long-term, not to say eternal for generations, since we all know the extent of the time interval of decomposition of the poored uranium, not to talk about everything that's been thrown there, as far as it seems... (President: National MPs, the time of the parliamentary group has been used. I also have time for an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45825	You can use the time of the authorised representative only after you have exhausted the list of speakers on your application. This has now been the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Milicevic, who will later exercise his right, due to earlier obligations, as well as MPs Kenan Hajdarevic, Zivojin Stankovic and Gordana Comic. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. After him, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I hope this time, unlike yesterday, you will hear what the SRS is proposing and answer with argument, because yesterday I didn't get an answer to the five proposals I made, as regards the centre of the Mediterranean district of Zrenjanin. In the morning, you said it wasn't true that the construction of a regional waste dump would be done. Ministers, I will quote on page 98, so we are talking about the proposal for a law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia 2010-2020, which also touches this draft law on amendments and amendments to the Waste Management Act. On page 2. 98,96, states: ''It is necessary to build regional waste storage sites for its safe collection and storage until treatment. After an analysis of the reported quantities and types of waste and plant, central regional waste storage facilities are planned in the following areas: the mid-banat area, the Danube area, the Macvan region, the moravian area and the niche area. 'Mr. Minister, I'm giving you one explanation and explanation. It is said – Central Banatian district, i.e. Zrenjanin is not the largest waste generator in Vojvodina, or Serbia. In accordance with the Waste Management Act (“Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”, No. In Article 34, it defines what is taken into account when determining the location for the construction and operation of the waste management plant. Under regular number 1 – quantity and type of waste and point 4 – close to protected natural goods. In the Waste Management Strategy 2010-2019, brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at its session of 15. 4. In 2010, page 119 in the table – the quantities of municipal waste produced annually in Serbia and projections by 2020 states: "The South-Brand district produces 212.928 tonnes of waste; the South-banatian district produces 10.2.278 tonnes of waste; the Sremski District 101.143 tonnes of waste; the North-Bath County produces 73.578 tonnes of waste and the Mediterranean County 71.608 tonnes", resulting in a much smaller quantity of waste from other districts. On the territory of the city of Zrenjanina there is a natural good that has gained international protection status. It is a special nature reserve "Old Begej - Carska Bar" and is listed in the Ramsar list, and for the entry are also proposed "Okanj Bar" near Elemir and "Rusand" near Melenac, so I believe that this is one of the reasons why regional storage of hazardous waste is not planned in the area of the town of Zrenjanin. On page 124. The draft plan, heading 12, point 6 – natural disasters and technological accidents, in the first position, indent 3, is listed - coordinated development based on balanced regional development and limiting the concentration of risk-risk activities in regions with already high technological risk – the Belgrade region, Banat, the Moravia area. Is such a warehouse for hazardous waste a risky activity? Given that the proposed regional storage facility in the Central Bank County takes the situation of the province's storage facility for the reception and distribution of hazardous waste to central Serbia, such an initiative for the town of Zrenjanin is not acceptable. Zrenjanin now belongs to the first group by categories of environmental hazards. On page 93, code 185 The draft spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia states that, when it comes to funding environmental protection, the concept done on the basis of the National Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia projects to achieve a level of separation in the protection of the environment of 1.5% of GDP for 2014. For the purpose of the plan, a spatial differentiation of the environment according to standards and experiences has been carried out, unfortunately, the EU, taking into account the existing state of quality of the environment and trends in the coming period, in four categories. The code number 186 indicates a category that is apostrophealed as the first in a sequence. Areas of polluted and degraded environments, sites with an excess of pollution limits, urban areas, areas of open spears, lignite, gaps, dumps, thermal power plants, highway corridors, waterways outside the class, with a negative impact on man, plant and animal life and quality of life. For this category, such solutions and definitions should be provided to prevent further degradation and reduce the effects of limiting development. It is necessary to rehabilitate and revitalise degraded and endangered ecosystems and to address the consequences of pollution, in order to create a better quality environment. In this category the most endangered areas are Panchevo, Bor, Majdanpek. The urban areas that belong to this category are Zrenjanin, Ruma, as well as current fourth-class waterways and out of class. Mr. Minister, based on the position of the town of Zrenjanin, in the context of the categorization from the said spatial differentiation of Serbia, we believe it is necessary to give up the construction of a regional waste storage facility in Zrenjanin, as it increases the chance of further endangerment and deterioration of the quality environment in Zrenjanin, which is already very disrupted. I apologize for having had to move immediately on to this proposal to supplement the Waste Management Act. Now I'm going to touch on the proposal for a bill on meteorological and hydrological activity. I think, Mr. Minister, I've proven to you in my argument that you still want to build a regional storage facility for hazardous waste in Zrenjanin. I am behind this and I hope you won't do it, because I really don't see why you left the city of Zrenjanin out of all the positive things that might have happened if you had included it in the Law on the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020. I would understand that you did not do it because your former DS counterpart Goran Knezevic did not remain mayor, because if it was left you would have done it, but you are probably not informed that this same Goran Knezevic had crossed into the SNS. Is it perhaps punishment for the citizens of Zrenjan? Mr. Minister, I'd like to touch something else, because I have so little time left for these seven laws since the time the SRS has in these 67 minutes, and there are colleagues who also want to talk about these seven laws. I'm supposed to be talking about every law for a minute and a half, and believe me, I don't know what I or anyone else could tell you in a minute and a half, and thanks to you who passed the seven laws in five hours. As regards this proposal for a law on meteorological and hydrological activity, for example, Article 8 says: "Toping the city." Based on the establishment and development of the technical and technological system, the modification of time for the needs of the city, as well as the research and development of methods of other types of artificial influence in time, is carried out in accordance with the law governing the control of the city. I'll say, Mr. Minister, on several occasions as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, these weather accidents, especially as a city, cause a lot of problems for individual agricultural producers or, as you say, registered agricultural holdings. We've had problems every year that anti-building stations have underdressed people, then underpaid people, and then insufficient anti-building missiles. This has been particularly evident this year, which has shown that the human factor appears to be the main factor in changing the country's climate conditions, and this also happens with Serbia, the good part in central Serbia and lower, and then in Vojvodina, especially in the Mediterranean and Northbonatian district, where many agricultural products have failed due to the abundant rainfall, and also registered agricultural holdings no longer have economic security for their family. I wonder - who is going to add to that bad budget of that individual agricultural land to the damage the city has done now? It will not be in that law, nor is it, and worse still, you do not plan, nor do the Ministry of Agriculture, nor will the government of Serbia, to have enough anti-urban missiles and at least as much as manage to act on time and not be harmed. I believe that these proposed amendments to the law, these seven proposed in this set, the SRS will not vote for them for any more reason. One of these reasons I am in this very little time as I have explained, and these are the two - amendments to the Law on Waste Management and the Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45827	Ten minutes and 45 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He's not here. The word is Mrs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45828	Ladies and gentlemen, before I deserve your attention during the time I am going to spend on comments on environmental laws, which are being conducted today by a joint principled search, I would like to thank Minister Oliver Dulic for his statement at one point during the afternoon work, clear, honorable and true, that there will be no construction of nuclear power plants in Serbia for two reasons. The first is that by 2015 the moratorium is in effect, and the second is that such a single project only implies an analysis of the impact on environmental protection. It is important to say, since the topic is dealt with both influential and unaffected circles and people who think they can and can promote construction, especially those who feel that there is no knowledge, political will, nor enough passionate people who will defend a healthy environment, never minding that people in a healthy environment mean and energy, means all the needs we need as people. But it is important sometimes from such a significant place, such as the environment minister, to say that there are no nuclear power plants in construction in Serbia. Now I will try to earn your attention by commenting on three of the total laws that we have on the agenda. The three laws I will deal with are the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Strategic Impact Assessment on the Environment, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act and the Waste Management Act. Before I make any concrete remarks, suggestions or assessments of the proposed provisions in these amendments and additions, just briefly on what context I share with you my assessments of the laws that are ahead of us. Politics as a job has two parts. One part of politics changes the space in which politics is run. The second part of politics changes social ties, social models, changes in human relationships, regulation that it brings. There's no third. When I say that I don't mean that politics is bad, good, honorable, dishonest, nice when you're government, bad when you're opposition or vice versa, I'm talking about the structure of politics. One part of politics, half politics changes space, another part of politics changes social ties between people. Then you can look at the regulation, or laws that we have from which of these two areas. The law that applies to all of us, so the regulation relating to the entire population is the Constitution, it applies equally to all of us. The only similar law of the Constitution, which applies to all of us and prescribes the ways in which we behave, therefore - social ties, is Family Law, and everything else that is from this area of mutual relations between people, our rights, our desirable, unwanted behaviors, refers to a smaller number of people. So the spatial plan is a regulation that tells you what you're going to change with the policy you represent in a country, in a society. The laws ahead of us say that we will change that by defining the spatial plan by saying what will be changed, so from our space in which our Constitution, where we are bound by other regulations, these are the areas of laws that change our space. I'm not talking about the quality of politics, I'm not talking about whether politics can, any policy can give good regulation how to change space and I'm going to give a very extreme example -- wars, which many call military-led policies, in the most tragic way, change space irreversibly, but change it, it's politics. We're not talking about it, we're talking about a policy that will produce in a space where people live the good consequences for people. This is the most important law Corps we have here, and every time from today, until 2012, until someone else proposes another policy in the field of environmental protection, and the people I personally support will propose a continuation of this same policy and, of course, get support from the Serbian population for the sequel. So, conflicting environmental laws, as regulations that show that we are changing our space in which we live, will be the subject of our work perhaps more than any other law in any other sectoral area, excluding, of course, budgets, they are always the most of our interests. As the proposals ahead of us can be made from the context I'm talking about, so it's about proposals for a law that, based on a spatial plan that says what we're going to change, which of these provisions says how we're going to change and what's controversial. If there's anything controversial about the debate. Seems to me like it does. In all of the four questions I want to ask Minister Dulic about the various members of the law that are before us, these three that I will comment on, I don't speak either members or views, because we know this among ourselves, and people whose space the provisions of these laws will apply does not mean anything that I say Article 4 paragraph 1 is changed or Article 35 from the context will be clear which members are concerned. Why I'm talking about the context of the law that we're going to change space. Because the population in Serbia has an extremely high sensitivity to the quality of the environment and you will always have a reaction, if people see that their local community's environmental environment or wider threats, or decreases their quality in any way. That's why this is one area where you have to be very careful with the use of public words. There's nothing easier than having his own fun, going into a full movie theater and yelling fire. It's an irresponsible public word, it's not using the right to freedom of speech, it's playing with people's deep feelings, with fear of whether or not they will, they and their children living in a healthy environment. That is why my first question concerns the Minister's clear and loud answer, what in these changes and additions ahead of us, which is about the analysis of the impact on environmental protection, the Law on the Protection of Nature and Waste Management, which changes the best for end-users, which is why we all work, or the citizens of Serbia, why they will be more sure that these provisions that we are proposing and will be spoken of, better than in the basic text of the laws that are now in force. The follow-up to the changes and additions we're going to be dealing with is probably very long and the list of laws that we're going to change is probably very long, but that's why we exist, it's our basic job that if we see either a legislator or a legislator or anyone under the Constitution authorized, that something does not work out of what the provisions of the law are in force, that we suggest changes and additions. The proposal's obligation, if we haven't shared it as information so far, to answer what changes better for me as a citizen, be clear, unequivocal and any argument hard to break. It only makes sense to make changes and additions, and everything else deepens doubt, and any doubt needs to be removed when it comes to such an important area of the Environmental Protection Act, which requires us to change the environment in which we live, and the ultimate character of that environment prescribes a spatial plan for us. This issue concerns all of these of the three laws that I have mentioned and the key changes and additions, in the Law on Environmental Impact Analysis, concerns the problem that it is obvious that we had provisions to analyse the impact on environmental protection must be done locally. That didn't happen. In reality, the reality in which we live there is a law and this law is not applied. There's a reason, there's a list of reasons. The first and logical and most logical reason is that someone in the executive power can't control law enforcement. It's the easiest, it's great, but unfortunately, it's not the case here. The second is that the provision in the basic law is such that there is no way to apply it effectively. Third, that there's something illegal, that someone's corrupting somewhere, something that doesn't make the basic provisions of the law apply. There's no fourth, no less. And then it's good to know why we didn't have the basic provisions of the Environmental Impact Analysis Act. And I don't know if they know, but I know that people who look at us are interested, I'm going to ask everyone who knows exactly and by definition of data to forgive me for generalization and inaccuracy, because I want to say it as short as possible, the impact analysis is mandatory, and recently, a few decades is the idea that, if you want to change space in your local community, in the wider part of the territory of the country where you live or in the whole country, that you're obliged to make an assessment of what effect it will have on the quality of the environment. It's an obligation that was established by international documents, because in 1955 no one thought to estimate, so what if you did a coal processing on the Main River, so 12 years later, after everything went down in the Main River, they said, "hey, we have a problem." Therefore, in order not to repeat the mistakes of others, it is mandatory to analyse the impact on environmental protection. The idea of change being offered is that we didn't really have anyone to do this to us or someone didn't want to do it at the level of local self-government, and now the ministry, or the minister, will be in charge of it. My question is, if he didn't have anyone, does that mean that such people don't have them in the local environments, or are they not at all, or is there no one to organise them, or did we have, what is quite present in Serbia -- it's not my job to find out who's really going to be in charge of doing an environmental impact analysis? This observation is related to the amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act, because there remain people, i.e. a provision is introduced to assess the acceptability of the Nature Protection Act will be in local self-government. It remains unclear, if there are no local experts to work for the local level of environmental impact analysis, where will experts come from to do an assessment of the acceptability to protect nature? It's possible I can't read well, so it would be great to get a clear answer whether these are less professional or more. What's going on here is a little vague for me. This is what I call – where is the catalog of people who will, on our behalf, make sure that the provisions that are proposed by the amendments are met. The last question I have is the work of the Waste Management Act on regional dumps. There's been a lot of talk about it here and otherwise it's interesting for the media, it's a very often flammable political topic, without any need, but I understand the urge. We politicians, when we see that there is some emotion in people, we find it hard to address them with facts and knowledge, but if it's emotion, then it's emotional, so it's easy to do damage, populist or what, because people are worried about what's going to happen to regional dumps. It is important that the minister give a very clear answer and the difference between the collection and treatment of waste, regardless of whether it is dangerous waste or any, the difference between the regional dumps and the waste burner and the mechanism of how we will make a decision which is the geographical width and longitude of the place where it will be built, i.e. given to the use of either a regional dump or a waste burn site or an object that is doing the treatment of hazardous waste. It's all very different things. With the hope that changes and additions to the Law in the field of environmental protection will help people in Serbia see that there is both knowledge and political will and determination to take care of the quality of the environment in the right way, in hopes that Minister Dulic will give answers to all the necessary questions, I urge you to debate this issue. When I say call, I mean all colleagues from the ruling majority and the opposition, whoever is in the ruling majority and the opposition, because there are few topics that are so undeniable that we can reach each other by what we say, to listen to each other and to hear each other. If this is environmental protection, it is my appeal that this topic be the beginning of a dialogue on all other answers, i.e. questions about where Serbia is going and that our Serbia will look two, five, seven, ten years from now, because it is the topic of the National Assembly, in my deep confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45829	The word has a minister, Mr Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45830	Thank you all for the many questions you've asked. I will make sure that, through one thing, I will essentially answer the individual questions that have been, again, with due respect for the insistence of some of the MPs on very individual matters, such as Zrenjanin, I think we talked about it yesterday and today. I think that even through the answers we give through three fundamentally open topics, by Vice-President Komic, we can also answer these individual questions. Let's take it in a row. First of all, we can agree that Serbia, as a country located in a transition process in the deep reforms of its society, has an exceptional number of problems that are just about the momentum of its state apparatus and bureaucracy, and sometimes citizens to accept some new circumstances that need to affect life, and that these modernisation processes are very often complicated by the elemental misunderstanding in which things are going and which is why certain things are being done. For this very reason, it is necessary to change very often the laws concerning the environment, finding solutions that will make it even simpler or completely thorough and clarify each of the legislative norms that the legislator wanted to prescribe. In Germany, for example, every six months is a debate on changes and additions to laws concerning environmental protection, almost every six months. Every six months, the industry that is working and modernized, an economy that, of course, follows, the economy and the whole society has to agree something that is modern aspirations and newspapers, not only coming from Brussels, but also part of German innovation, must become an integral part of the legislation. There is no reason for Serbia to also not be exposed to the fact that once a year we have a debate here that will mean that new things that today are trends in Europe, on the one hand, and the need for a closer definition of very often malicious interpretations of our laws are defined in a better way. It's precisely these changes and additions to the law that serve it. I cannot agree that the Institute's environmental impact assessment is not working in Serbia, it has been functioning daily since 1991. I cannot agree, too, that there are no experts in Serbia who know they are doing an environmental impact assessment. The ministry had before a certain time a competition for people who would be somehow qualified, licensed to do environmental impact assessment. We have hundreds of experts on the Ministry's list. The AP Vojvodina did the same, as part of the jurisdiction is now transferred to the institutions of the AP Vojvodina. Anyone who does an environmental impact assessment has the possibility that people who are licensed, or have passed a competition by the ministry, can engage for that. Let's share, again, because of the simplification of the impact assessment, on the one hand, and the strategic assessment, on the other hand. Impact assessments are for concrete drives and facilities. What was a big problem in 1991 was that it was never, or until last year it was not precise when the mandatory environmental impact assessment must be done when it can be done. Since the procedure that has lasted too long under these older laws has been a very good argument for bureaucracy to say – if you don't pay me a little something, I'll put you in charge of assessing the environmental impact and it would minimally delay the procedure for, for example, issuing a 250-day permit, how long was it, if not much longer. Just to prevent that, we have defined last year's changes to the list of objects that impact assessment must be done, which can be done according to their schedule in space, and then we shortened the procedure to 105 days and this procedure is still in effect today. So, as far as environmental impact assessment is concerned, there are people who can do it, the procedure has been shortened. As far as strategic assessments are concerned, both at local level and at the state level, local self-government can go with the same logic as the state did and choose the members of the commission to do so through a public call or through the choice of professions. Of course, all this is about the cost of those who are contracting certain plans or strategies, because strategic environmental impact assessments are not done when it comes to objects or drives, they are done when it comes to plans, projects, or programmes. There's no reason for us to doubt our own mind and profession that this job can end. So far, we have done a large number of strategic environmental impact assessments and they live. What prevents these amendments and additions of the law is that any of the impact assessments become a mechanism for blackmail, for the arbitral interpretation of bureaucracy, for the extension of certain procedures or for different types of abuses. I said that a year and a half ago. In some municipalities, an environmental impact assessment was required for the kiosk, and the pump was not, although it was clear that, of course, the pump was a much higher burden for the environment than for the kiosk. So there were abuses of the rights of people living in the environment of a particular object, to know whether their daily life and work, on their environment, would cause certain problems. As far as the second question is concerned, I must say that we, following the overall situation of the development of the concept of regional dumps, and there is someone right, the regional dump is not the term that is modern and used today, we are using it because, let me say, in everyday use, we are talking about regional waste management centres, which in their composition have a deposit that involves one body with its standards, which implies the inability to lead from waste to water streams, which implies the treatment of these wastewaters, which implies any type of protection despite that deposit or in its immediate vicinity that there is a recycling centre that would imply secondary separation of waste or the use of waste for some other purposes. In Serbia, it was necessary to make a huge effort to step out and find solutions to disputes that are several years old, if not decades old, between different local self-governments on the location of the regional dump, which municipalities will be part of the region, which the company will do, whether it will be a public – private partnership, whether these municipalities will be in debt and take credit to build themselves a dump, what will be the price of municipal services, whether someone will pay a higher price. This led to a large number of conflicts, and for this reason, two and a half years ago, the situation was quite sad. We only had two regional dumps, one was built in Vranj, and the other in Kikinda. I was just reading a list of everything we managed to get off the dead end. So, let me remind you, over a period of two and a half years, we opened the Lapovo dump in Leskovec, a dump in Piroth was completed, and we expect local self-government in the region to finally find an agreement and to open the dump. There's also a dump in Panchev. What is encouraging is that at this point, we are working on Deep Užice dumps, which cover a huge number of municipalities, Nova Varoš, Sremska Mitrovica, Petrovac, Sombor, Subotica, Indjija, Zaječar and Vršac. We're very sad that the biggest cities still haven't found adequate solutions, but in our conversation with the mayors, we're trying to make them the leaders of waste management. What I can say is that the vast majority of municipalities have fulfilled their task, in accordance with the law, which is to make a local waste management plan and that regions do their own waste management plan. It's, like, a longer story. However, what is the main problem? Today, we have problems that have accumulated in some regions and that can hardly be solved. According to the previous law, the government had the right to determine the location of the regional dump, but local self-government continued to literally swim between several regions, relative to political sympathy or antipathies, in relation to some of the current interests, etc. We've given these changes and additions to the government's laws another powerful asset, which is that it definitely draws regions. Those who did not agree, the government will say what regions they are, the government will tell them exactly where the regional dump is and the new law on municipal action that is being prepared and I hope it will be adopted in November, we will define the way in which it enters a public-private partnership with a strategic partner. So there won't be any more reasons for anyone to say - I can't organize myself, we fight all the time, for example. We have one region of 12 municipalities, the Kolubar region, they can't agree. It is known to be the location of the Kalenic dump, it should start to be built, there is no way to agree. Twelve municipalities where there are so many different views on all issues, we have to come to the aid, in the sense that we give one period of time and say, by this time period, you have the right to agree, when this is over, the government will tell you, there is no other. Unfortunately, I'm a major opponent of every kind of centralization, but when it comes to things like this that involve harmonising a large number of different interests, I believe that at this stage of our political and social development sometimes the center has to say something. We've taken that role with this law. Be assured that, after the adoption of this law, we will finally set up regions in Serbia, define the locations of the dump, and encourage local self-government to enter the negotiation process. Whether they're going to be in charge, whether they're going to be looking for a strategic partner, whether they're going to give someone a waste management concession, it's going to be on them, but they definitely need to be cut. Serbia must be clearly divided into ecological regions when it comes to waste management. As far as your third subject is concerned, I've talked about it today in the debate, but I'll do it again. It is not the Ministry's intention and through the bill to reduce the degree of protection. To demonstrate this, we are ready to accept any kind of compromise that, on the one hand, will preserve the existing strictness of the degree of protection and, on the other hand, to do what is important to us as a ministry, which is to clearly state what can be done and what cannot be done in protected natural goods. This is extremely important to us because we have a huge number of examples -- when the law does not define clearly what cannot be built, it is usually built. We cannot expect that in the territory of every local self-government, in places where decision-makers sit, people sitting in the same way and with the same glasses will see environmental protection and defence of national and public interest. That's impossible to expect. We've had examples that in some municipalities you can build whatever you want in another zone, because someone has broken the law, and in other municipalities you can't build what needs to be built and what's possible to build in accordance with the law. To prevent that, we have, I repeat, come up with something that was a proposal that clearly describes what cannot be built. I think there's room for compromise. A member of the law that was proposed to amend contained a decryption of the protected natural good. I will read to you, for example, for the second zone: "In the second degree of protection, manageable interventions are possible in order to restore, revitalise and overall improvement of natural goods without resulting in the primary value of its natural habitats, populations and ecosystems, as well as controlled traditional activities that did not endanger the primary values of space during its course." This is a great member of the law, this is the attitude that those who want to understand in a positive way, and how they understand. However, Serbia obviously needs to write a member like this: "The second-degree protection regime prohibits the construction of industrial, metallurgical and mining facilities, asphalt bases, facilities for storage and sale of oil and liquid oil gas products, thermopower plants and wind generators, ports and shopping centres, airports, service warehouses, warehouses and freezers," because all of this has been allowed to be built. So, we now have to write a member who says it's forbidden to build this, and it can, that's where it's standing, restricts the regulation and refurbishing of water streams, the formation of water supply, the construction of hydropower plants, solar power plants, power plants to biogas, etc. So we say what can be done under certain conditions. If there is fear, I think that Ms. Vojić Markovic insisted on it, as well as many others, that by eliminating this descriptive clarification, which is much more artistic than has any practical legal application, if someone thinks that we wanted to lower the degree of protection, my proposal is that the Committee on the Protection of the Environment propose an amendment that will contain what are existing decrysings, but that will put behind it what is a very clear restriction on what should be done and what should not be done. It's totally acceptable for us. So that's how we get the argument out of the hands of those who claim that we write the law so that the tycoons build something. It doesn't occur to us. We write the law that everyone builds what they can, where they can, and that where nature is kept, there must be no building of what threatens nature. That's the whole idea. That is the proposal, and I ask the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection to agree and bring that amendment into line, so be it adopted. I think that's an argument no one can say anything about. I repeat, our goal is to protect natural resources, but to allow people to live and do something. We have, unfortunately, two schools of opinion in Serbia. One is some kind of ecological fundamentalists who would like nothing in nature to be touched and who are essentially concerned by the human community that lives there, but who don't care if it's going to survive economically, all they care about is keeping what's in theory as a unique nature in that space. On the other hand, other extremes are representatives of predatory capital that don't care if it's some space that is protected, in which some plant and animal species that are important, don't care about nature, don't care about people. All they care about is using some potential they found there to be beautiful, to build a cottage, a hydropower plant, or anything else. We need to find a midway that will promote what we've argued several times and yesterday and today, do we know what it is, that will promote sustainable development. So, in the natural resources that God has given us and that are beautiful to allow people to live exactly by using these resources in a way that they are not threatened. I think this is one solution that we can reconcile all that are our wishes in a different way without letting any of these schools win anymore. Here's to the end, again and again I won't talk about it anymore. So Serbia will have to have a waste treatment plant. Serbia is obliged to open the issue one day. Where will this facility be treated? I'm sure every single one of you who comes from any community would like to have it right next door to the community without just being at his place. I can hear the reasons of every single city why they don't think it should be there, and here it is in the neighborhood. This facility must be where it is most accessible to all municipalities, because it will process all the waste that is formed in the territory of the entire country. It's the only argument that we can use at this point and that facility has to be built on the latest technologies and that in no way threatens life, which will confirm the impact assessment of life on the environment, even strategically, which will work for the whole area where it will work. Wastes will be collected in regional warehouses, which will be packed and then sent to the plant. Regional warehouses will be where they need to be and no one can say why we're here, why we're not in the neighborhood, why we're making so much waste. I repeat again, we all generate dangerous waste that so far ends up in dumps, which must begin to be collected in an orderly, systematic, modern way and which must eventually end up where dangerous waste ends in all the orderly countries of Europe. If that doesn't happen, we'll continue to poison ourselves, our children will still be born with deformations, we'll still have an increase in the incidence of many diseases, which are directly caused by environmental pollution, and that's our reality, we have to prevent that. It will happen regardless of the political opposition of some local communities, where it has to happen and it has to be said. The state has to say one minute -- it has to do this, a finished story, regardless of some protests, regardless of the disinformation of the public in some environments, regardless of the abuse of human ignorance in order to mobilize people against something they know nothing about because of some short political interest. All that can be done, but in the end, we have to cut through one moment and finish that question and we'll end it. Let me tell you something, I don't have a problem with ending this government's term of office and this ministry. We're trying to do it. Someone may be angry as much as they want, but we do it deeply confident that this is what Serbia needs, and don't be angry that I won't answer individual questions, which is why in this city or that city it has to happen. It's got to happen somewhere, and we're just looking, purely from the expert side, where it's best to do it for access routes, for everything else. If in all of Banat, the Central Banat, with a city that is the biggest generator of hazardous waste, and not generated by the industry of hazardous waste, but by citizens, it has to be near the largest city, because there is 80 percent of that waste generated, what do I do to you, it's so in every other city and every other region.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45831	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I give my word to the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelyc. (Milica Vojić Markovic, from the place: Replica. I'm sorry, you wanted a replica. First, Mrs. Vojić Markovic's replica, so I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45832	I liked the fact that the vice president of this assembly Gordana Komic formulated the question – is it humane in a cinema full of people shouting fire? I would rephrase the question, and I would answer many things – is it humane to see a man who burns fire in a cinema full of people, and out of fear of being watered by someone agreeing to keep quiet? It's my ecological point of view. My assignment here today is, however you call an approach that has a DSS parliamentary group, like ecological Taliban or high school or whatever it is you wanted to call us, my point is that we have to tell you things as they are and that we have to warn you what you're doing. If you think you should agree to the amendment that you're talking about, I don't know how to do it because the president doesn't have today when this package of laws is in front of us today, and I don't know how we're going to do it, but I'm willing to talk about it, because the ultimate goal is to protect nature and the great harm that this law would have done as you've said it did. What I'm noticing, in 18 months you've become much wiser. Now you have a lot of arguments in favor of amendments and additions to the law. You're just as eloquent as you are when you convinced us that the laws were made at the time, and my question to you, and perhaps the proposal, when we've come to this point, that you're centralistly determining where the waste plant will be, what do you think of Subotica?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45833	In fact, there were figures of style, there was everything, there was least replicas. Mr. Dobrislav Prelic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set ahead of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45835	Mr. Prelyco, I'm sorry, I didn't see the minister come back before you, and he has an advantage in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45836	Let me tell you, the government took that opportunity for the first time in Subotica, a few months ago the government appointed Subotica as a regional centre and there will be a dump. Don't think anyone here has some local patriotic stuff when it comes to waste management, when it comes to any kind of waste and when it comes to our environment. Check it out. The first centralist decision was right in my city, despite opposition and local self-government, which is my city and all the other local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45837	Mr. Flea, please sign in. I'm really sorry. The mistakes are on my side. I made a mistake, not compared to that, because I gave you my word twice, and they had the advantage of others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45838	No problem, Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, I'm used to the chairman of so many unwarranted criticisms and everything, not from you, much more than your colleague Komic, but it's not a problem, you haven't deconcentrated me. Let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45839	I'll have to warn you. I think the session is being properly led by Vice President Comic and myself. I really ask you to respect the dignity of the congregation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45840	I'm sorry, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, that's your subjective opinion. I guess I'm entitled to my opinion, too. Today we have before us these environmental laws, otherwise a set of eight laws. What I'm trying to say at the introduction is, it's usually a common practice here, just look at these materials, they're saying enough that we can't seriously discuss these laws, no matter what these are mostly changes and additions. What's recognizable is that last year, when these laws were here, she made a series of criticisms and we warned that there would be changes and additions, which is what happened. We had the opportunity to hear yesterday and today a lot, that again, in some way, the responsibility of the ruling majority since 2000 so-called. democratic changes have all happened in Serbia, that it is again guilty and responsible for the SRS. But it's not exactly like that. We even had a chance to see yesterday that Mr. Minister had a very difficult time with a certain part of the criticism, so with one dose and humiliation and cynicism he addressed the MPs of the SRS. The truth is, Mr. Minister, painful, but sometimes it has to be accepted. Here, let's say there are a lot of good things in these laws and they should be applied. Also, the SRS thinks there are much bigger problems in the Republic of Serbia and much more important life problems to be addressed, besides saying that there is a lot of what is good here and what needs to be accepted in some way. What you wanted to say and you said that we had to heal ourselves from the traumatic position of our recent history, I think it's a burden to you. I want to tell you that there are local self-governments, since we've had a chance to hear here that you transfer a lot of things, or responsibility, to local self-government, that there are local self-governments that have, say, far, far, far, far, before and before you worked on certain projects and passed a certain act. Here, let me tell you that we are in Odjaks municipality, you know that, a municipality that has an extremely favourable geostrategic position, that is close to the border crossing, that in 2007, we made a contract and brought in a company for waste recycling. However, since the SRS has been in power there for five years, we have experienced such torture from your colleagues and simply that investor from Italy has given up on it. We've secured complete infrastructure, location. I have to tell you, and I hope you know that we did a spatial plan before we had an obligation to bring it in, that we funded 80% alone, but normally, there have been changes and additions so we have to do it again with additional funds. What I want to tell you more when regional centres are, as you like to say, European standards or waste management or regional dumps, and there we made a five-municipality contract, more specifically in 2005, the municipality of Bach, Apatin, Sombor, The Tower and Odžaki. But it hasn't moved at all, and I have to tell you, you know, that these municipalities are led by Democrats. Where do you care? We've done everything, everything, absolutely everything that's up to us, but absolutely everything. Furthermore, when it comes to investing in a wild dump, and what you boast that Serbia was one big dump, I must say that you are doing it, but there is also a environment that is very safe doing it. What you do is mostly in election campaigns, and that's where it ends up. Here goes the minister, just when I wanted to tell him, because he knows what was going on in the Odjac municipality when the elections were coming out of the hall, but well, that the Ministry of Ecology has reason to invest in certain municipalities and I wanted to give him a concrete example, in Odzaci municipality there is a sewerage that the second in Serbia started in an ecological way, we provided about 30 million. A total investment of 120 million dinars. As long as the radicals were there in power, the state didn't want to, she had no understanding to invest any single dinar. That's true. The truth is painful, but you have to accept it. We will certainly continue to work on designing quality projects, but you must understand that we, or the SRS, want first of all to ensure a better life for the citizens of Serbia, wants to do everything that you haven't done in these past ten years, that you are not only calling for European integrations that we absolutely have nothing. I'd like to tell you to get out of your chair, to go around our cities, to see how our citizens live, and not just beat up, what our people would say, empty straw, to adopt laws that they adopt, implementation on the ground don't experience that you're running away from real problems, that the problems are big and that they can be solved, but they need to come out among the people. Unfortunately, you can't do that. What I'm still trying to say is, there's been a lot of talk here, and there's this Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity, and that's where you showed your innocuousness, and that could've been felt this year and on our agriculture, when the anti-urban stations got four missiles. I think it's such a misery and our farmers couldn't keep their crops without using those missiles and we suffered a lot of damage. I don't think the state's thinking in that segment either. What I want to tell you at the very end, because of the time, is that our citizens want to live a decent and decent life in the 21st century, that we don't want a few thousand of you living in abundance and everyone else living in waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45841	Ambassador Zivojin Stankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45842	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ministry officials, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of amendments and additions to the legislation concerning regulation in the area of the environment. We passed these laws more than a year ago, and according to opposition representatives, we are already making amendments and additions to the law today. I think it's a good thing when something changes all the time, it needs to be followed by law, not waiting for a dozen years to pass and only then to make changes to the law. I'll talk about the additions to the Chemical and Biocidal Products Act. During the application of the Chemical Act, the creation of sublegal acts has been observed that economic operators have problems in law enforcement and therefore have been approached by these amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. Of course, there is no breach to the basic principle of European rules in the field of chemicals to regulate the conditions for the placing on the market of chemicals as a product, i.e. how to determine the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment. These changes and additions do not deviate from the solution in the European regulation, and a European principle is consistently implemented that the cost of testing dangerous properties of chemicals, as well as other costs for the placing on the market of chemicals, is borne only by the person who puts them on the market. This law provides for technical assistance to implement obligations defined by the basic law to be provided by the Agency with compensation. Certain data on chemicals to be supplied to the Agency in the chemical registration process in the chemical register may represent an industrial or business secret and therefore many importers have a problem with obtaining data from a foreign producer. The amendments to this law allow a foreign producer to deliver that information to the Agency itself. For answers to certain professional questions, the economic operators shall address the Agency. As answers to these questions do not interfere much with the interpretation of the law, but with the profession, they have the opportunity to engage the Agency with amendments to this law and to answer these professional questions. The basic objective of amending the law is the same as the objective of the basic law, which is to establish, maintain and improve a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia by ensuring a high level of human health and the environment, as well as by improving the transport of chemicals with EU countries and other countries. These changes and additions affect the manufacturer, i.e. the importers of chemicals, as they facilitate the operation by allowing them to decide on their own how to hire a chemical advisor, allowing the necessary documentation in the procedure before the Agency, if it represents extensive material, to be delivered in English to reduce the costs of the applicant himself. When applying the prescribed documentation, economic operators have a number of dilemmas regarding certain professional issues that go beyond expert opinions, which relate to the concrete application of legal provisions, so this law allows them either to carry out their own research or to respond in a faster and more efficient manner by hiring the Agency itself. It allows a foreign producer to provide that agency with information that represents a business or industrial secret, which simplifies and speeds up the process itself. As for the amendment and addition of the Biocidal Products Act, it was also during the application of the law itself and in the making of sublegal acts that caused problems for economic operators in the application of the law itself, and it affected the amendment of the law. All proposed amendments and amendments are complemented in accordance with EU rules and do not essentially amend the basic law. It is also carried out consistently in principle that all costs of testing the hazardous means of biocidal products, as well as other costs related to placing these products on the market, are borne by the person who puts them on the market. Amendments and additions to the law also provide for the possibility for foreign producers themselves to deliver these data to the Agency. The establishment, maintenance and improvement of a single system in the justice of biocidal products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the provision of high levels of health care and the environment are achieved. These changes and additions will affect producers, or importers of biocidal products, as they facilitate the process of obtaining acts which allow for the placing of biocidal products on the market. It allows the technical file, which represents extensive material, to be submitted in English, which is financial savings for them. When applying the prescribed documentation, the entities have a dilemma with professional questions. Also, the amendments to the law allow them to address the agency. It is possible that a foreign producer can provide the agency with information that represents a business or industrial secret, which has not been the case so far. It also affects the wider population, as the agency is given the opportunity not to allow a biocidal product that is not sufficiently efficient to be placed on the market. During today's debate, we heard a series of objections to the work of the Ministry itself and to the work of the minister, and that of those MPs who, when they had the Government, did not even have the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's been said that there's never been a worse situation in the environment. Of course, it doesn't take the ministry to deal with environmental protection, but the government itself tells us that whoever doesn't have such a ministry can't even mention the environment, let alone take care of it. I think the current ministry, headed by Mr. Dulic, is doing an extremely good job. He's really worried about protecting the environment. That's what the citizens will give the court. We can say that it's good or bad, to conflict our opinions, but citizens give final judgment. That's what we'll see when the election comes, and then we'll talk about whether someone did their job right or not. I thank Mr Dulic and his co-workers at the Ministry for coming out to meet the city of Leskovec and the citizens of Leskovec, because they responded extremely quickly to all our demands. As for the provision of paper relating to the construction of regional waste and the construction of a recycling centre, it is of course agreed by representatives of opposition parties in the local parliament and only let them continue to do their job, and that they are on the ground and are present everywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45843	I give my word to MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I would first like to say to the representatives of the Ministry that I have been working for three decades on the maintenance of technology systems that serve to transfer dangerous chemicals to the Zorka Chemical Industry in Sapac, and I have been doing scientific work in this area as well. By listening to these statements today, I realized how much MPs know or know the matter of which today is, that is, these seven laws were actually meant to be individual, and of these seven laws there were so many materials, so many words, that they deserved one individual statement, that is, an explanation. I'm sure you know that the protection of the human environment and all these seven points that you have today presented as a legal procedure, those in this ten-year period of government of DOS democratic authority have no meaning. I'll tell you why it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter because the economy of the Republic of Serbia doesn't work. You have to understand how these issues were to be discussed in the earlier period, when the economy functioned and worked. Now that the economy isn't working, where you really need to protect the human environment. There's a story here about some regional municipal waste dumps, but it seems to me that no one here has mentioned a dangerous factory that was to be built in the area of the town of Sapca, which thanks to the SRS and me, knowing the danger of that factory, it's a factory for the destruction of physical and chemical waste, not built. I must tell you that both then and the opposition, after three years, have realized what a dangerous bomb would be made, a killer factory in the city itself. As for further exposure, I must say I listened to all those who spoke. I must honestly say, in particular, the vice president of the Assembly who spoke for 15 minutes, but so perfiduously, that she never talked about the subject at all, she was talking about the spatial planning that was on the agenda yesterday. Mr. Minister, you also spoke to my party colleague, Mr. Stevanović, so boldly, I must say so, to the question, when he spoke to you about the system that is present today, especially about spatial planning and where the agenda point was – the construction mafia. You guys, whenever you have to talk about this problem, you seem to be the problem, whether it's the construction mafia, whether it's the health mafia, whether it's the travel mafia, whether it's the Mafia index, you're hiding it, because you're not going to discuss it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will now hear in my presentation a scientific presentation regarding this matter, so that you can certainly draw conclusions. The environmental function is very affirmative in almost all modern countries at the end of the 20th century, and in addition to the ecological policy that more or less is driven by all political entities, there is also a specific scientific discipline - political ecology. The technical and technological revolution, as a result of the unjudged possibilities of human creativity, has greatly improved civilizational development, but has also led to the frightening destruction of man's environment, and of the mile in which he was created, so that his survival itself is threatened. A man cannot give up using all natural resources, but he must be extremely rational in this, not endangering the world of nature and helping him develop on his own principles. The faceless race for an ever-increasing profit or maximum preservation of natural ambience, clean air and water is difficult to resolve with the dilemmas of each government, and the rational state government is trying to bring one and the other interests to the maximum, but this government does not. The private business initiative on the plan cannot be controlled without strict and restrictive legislation. The state, on the one hand, seeks to intervene as little as possible on the market, on the other, is motivated by ecological reasons, collects production, in particular exploitation of natural resources, increasingly difficult conditions and restrictions, prescribing mandatory filters for factory waste water washing, preserving and removing hazardous materials, recultivating also space, etc. Political ecology insists on the principle that nature has values in itself, therefore, its own substance, not just the value used for man. The environmental policy seeks to bring these values into line, because it is always for the good of man, given that humans are inside nature. The subjugation of nature through history has always led to man's subjugation of increasingly intense exploitation. Modern states focus on co-operation with nature, so they use it to the extent that they estimate that it is also able to regenerate. However, while safeguarding their own natural environment, they are even more unfeelingly destroying the ecological systems of industrially undeveloped countries, as social misery makes them neglect the environment, since hungry mouths cannot think about greenery and birds' cricket. A man is responsible for nature as much as he is free. When he is enslaved, subdued, exploited, he conveys his cruelty to everything that surrounds him, lives and lives in the world. In order to succeed environmental policy, it needs to contain four basic components: firstly, legal instruments of protection, obligations, prohibitions and penalties that destimulate environmental threats; secondly, based on the promotion of production and consumption in line with environmental resources based on state intervention market instruments; thirdly, based on scientific research, information and education of the population, training of environmental movement activists on a voluntary basis, and fourthly, the financing of concrete environmental programmes, the rehabilitation of already produced ecological wounds. The use of genetically modified micro-organisms is of particular importance in removing various forms of pollution, and there is a chance of fully modernising agricultural production by genetic engineering and the use of micro-organisms, which would be used exclusively in place of artificial fertilisers and chemical-based protective agents. It's obvious biotechnology has an ever-increasing perspective, but it also brings new dangers. To make the paradox bigger, the most developed countries openly deny the intensification of agricultural production and advocate more intense forms, as well as the reforestation of agricultural land. More recent policy variants, the recycling of strategic raw materials, the eco-packing of products and other measures, achieves significant results. These days, ladies and gentlemen, the current topic is an incident with toxic red mud from the Hungarian aluminium factory, which on October 4th, pierced the rash, killed nine people and injured 150 people and left over a thousand people homeless, showing Serbia's frightening non-interest in environmental issues. In this case, the headlines of the capital media "Strong river self-cleaned," "Dunav beats the toxic residue," "The level of dangerous matter in the water below normal," they say everything. It is deliberately forgotten that the problem from Hungary to Serbia is coming through the riverbed. We need to sample the sediment of the river and see for ourselves, and it's a sedation by profile with troubled mud that's now going down and it's going to get soaked, not just water on the surface. The toxic elements that cannot register river control throughout the following year will be transmitted at the bottom of the Danube to the Gerdap lake. The first problem will arise when they start to dissolve in the lake water. These harmful metals will most likely reach the fish through the food chain, then eventually endanger people. Also, Serbia and Hungary are preying on another potential danger, which is the transmission and pollution of air. When toxic mud is dried, it could be blown into the wind in the form of powder dust. Unfortunately or fortunately, today, when the economy in Serbia does not work and does not work, when large economic capacities do not work, Serbia is today, it can be said, an environmentally-protected state. Just today, the Ministry of Ecology and Spatial Planning has a great task to collect plastic bottles and plastic bags, and it is actually the one under the slogan "To Clean Serbia". Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr. Secretary, when he visited the town of Sabac a few months ago, he probably took a dark glass car, and he probably wore dark glasses because of the sun, so when he was crossing the bridge on Savi, he didn't see a big dump, one big dump that's ten meters from the bathroom, and one 50 meters from the big Benske Bar, and it's normal from a big mall called "Interex". So in the evenings you can see a horde of rodents, rats going or going and going into these facilities, so I ask you, Mr. Dulic, you've been to Kaonna, at an exotic Orthodox centre, where you've come probably to collect plastic bottles and glasses with volunteers and to have a nice lunch and finally say how nice this is done in Capco, but also how you have one great desire to create a regional dump in Sremska Mitrovica, but it seems to me, it's very difficult. Today, citizens at the dump, who do not have their own technical reception, are punished because they have to prove before the court why they do not want to pay communal taxes, because it is one of the biggest wild dumps that has ever occurred. It's now about ten meters high, but we think about a magnificent building will be built there, and the probability of a new hill will come down. So I think that today, when it's a time of decentralisation, a time of great idealism, a unit of local self-government and local authorities, therefore, the local authorities should give them a free hand, because they know best how to deal with local politics. The Europe we're seeking is supposed to be asking us. Very nice, this way, a new set of local powers will be created that can do what comes to their mind at a local level, and it can help to save failed political projects at a national level, for example. to form the Association of the Serbia region to save G17 plus. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to expose this to you, to tell you what is actually happening today or what is present in Serbia today, and with one beautiful story, Mr Oliver Dulic is trying to convince the citizens of Serbia that a big expansion of cleaning Serbia and I are glad, and every man is normally glad to have a clean environment in his environment and, of course, that he has a clean city. But you said here about the transport of dangerous chemicals, please, if you just want a little attention because we're talking about a very big problem. I said that in the Zorca chemical factory in Šapec for three decades, I was in the business of maintaining the technology system, and at that time there were barrels of dangerous chemicals in those warehouses, which was not at the time, but only one technologist knew, but unfortunately she was dead, who knew what was in those barrels, and today when there was cleaning up, or that chemical industry, I wonder where they were, but I don't have anyone else to ask at the local level, because people I need to ask don't know, I wonder, where did those barrels that were with dangerous matter? As for the transport of these dangerous chemicals and it is very discriminatory and certain that it must be under one large and strict control when it comes to the transport of dangerous chemicals, and it can cause a major ecological disaster, because when it happens there is no time, and you know well how it happens today at rail stations where we grow weeds, barbecues, which are unedited, which are without certain control and without certain protection. I wonder who's in charge of transporting such chemicals. Also, ladies and gentlemen, there were few words here on the Committee on Science and Technological Development, on the VIN project in Vinci. The project said there should be transporting radioactive matter by the end of the year. You are well aware that in 2002, in a country, this radioactive waste, which was not spent, I mean Russia, was returned back to the country of origin, which represents a major financial disaster for Serbia, because in this respect we could agree with the country of origin and this radioactive waste from Vinci could be transported. This project was said to be discussed, but I see that you have not discussed this problem, nor have you raised anything in your report as a question about the transport of radioactive waste, and there are several states involved. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleagues have said a lot about this issue, but that's the problem that has arisen, which is the problem of bombing and destroying certain objects that have been under certain economic protection. So, the NATO Pact, although it had footage, even though it knew where to go and where it shouldn't be aimed to avoid causing an ecological disaster, he didn't mean Serbia and Serbian citizens. He didn't choose then whether it would bother him, whether he was going to bomb hospitals, whether he was going to destroy young lives, whether he was going to destroy bridges where the children were. And today you believe those who killed children, and it's called 'European alternative', along with these traitors who went to Japan to kneel, as if Serbia was exporting clay and thorns, and why the one who went to kneel, which is why he didn't collect clay and thorns, but was collecting money from mobsters and criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45845	National MP Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45846	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the area of environmental protection is an area covered by a number of laws that have no great value. The legislator, and earlier, is without success trying to explain to Serbian citizens that they need to be protected and that the environment needs to be improved. Mr. Minister, you can laugh or leave the Assembly, you are here as Minister, and you have to listen to all the MPs and not belittle them and not give them the answers that are offensive. He has to keep an eye on the Prime Minister he's sending here. These are the people's messengers to be heard and respected. Mr. Minister, you were in Panchev. Panchevo is one of the most polluted environments in the Republic of Serbia, you will agree. On the other hand, you had a chance to come to Pancheva two years ago, to enter the circle of Petrochemy, Azotara and Rafineria. Mr. Minister, as much as you've done, it's just the beginning, but you've met a dangerous waste that's actually been lagged in a circle called Petrochemy in Pancheva, and you know well how many thousands of tons of this dangerous material there are in Petrochemy. Mr. Minister, you have taken appropriate measures to begin with, however, as we do today in Serbia, and especially when it comes to the AP Vojvodina, we have two powers. The two-authority is seen in this as a time of principality in Serbia. Turkish courts tried, but the princes also tried. You now have the powers transferred to Vojvodina, and you have the powers that you have as minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What are the inspections doing? Are the republican inspections competent, local, municipal, provinceal and what does the Republic's inspection do? Mr. Minister, you've been informed that I've been asking a parliamentary question regarding the additional pollution of Panchev, because the citizens of Panchev live actually as a bird in a cage. The largest polluters in Serbia are surrounded. How do the citizens of the inhabited city of Vojlovic live? How are they going to live now after your consent and permission to build another large contaminant, I mean the asphalt base next to the monasteries in Vojlovica, as the oldest monastery in Vojvodina? In the West, Mr. Minister, you know well that even the tarab can't be painted without local self-government and its consent, but Vojlovica's local community has twice given a negative opinion and opposed the construction of an asphalt base, but someone has taken more care of the interests of a private man from Austria to build a very asphalt base and to get a gift of the entire infrastructure next to the monastery. You said the dump in Panchev was over. Have you, sir, been to that dump? This dump doesn't work. Why isn't the old dump closed? Secondly, the DS coalition partner, which is New Serbia, who managed hygiene in Panchev, managed to make another decision to rob the citizens of Panchev, which is that you do not have another tariff in Belgrade, only in Panchev, so the decision to collect waste and the other decision to take and store waste. This is in Panchev, thanks to one wrong decision, citizens pay double prices and double tariffs for taking out garbage. This dump has been built for 10 years since DOS came to power, and do you know how many hundreds of millions have been spent in this dump? A lot. So when I say hundreds of millions of dinars, she doesn't work today. Minister Dulic says - the dump is over. A year ago, that decision was made. If it's over, why isn't it working, why is the old dump downtown, who allowed it? Secondly, Mr. Minister, you remember that you have promised two million euros, that the government will provide two million euros for the closure of the pool where dangerous waste is lagged, which is open. I must say that you are the first step to a successful conclusion, but there is no inspection of what they do on the ground and whether the inspection works. What you've done, it's a start, it's a positive start, but if you continue and make inspections, and make local self-government work within the law that gives you this right, but also the right to oversee the enforcement of these laws passed by Mr. Minister, I think we need to form 10 ministries instead of 25 ministries in Serbia, instead of 111 agencies and directorates, we don't need any. You can see how far the agency is here now and in your ministry, formed and established in other ministries. If we had abolished these unnecessary agencies, directors and funds, we wouldn't have paid the secretary of state, hundreds of them, we wouldn't have advisers hundreds of them, we wouldn't have secretaries, we wouldn't have drivers, we wouldn't have so many cars in the office of individual directors and powerful men. In this way, dozens of billions of dinars would be saved, so that money would go to social funds, raise pensions, increase social benefits, and eventually improve education and health care in any case. You know how many people in Panchev are suffering from malignancies, mostly in Serbia. Why didn't you investigate what was left of the bombing in Azotara and Rafineria and Petrochemy? There are thousands and thousands of tons of dangerous material to be cleaned up. Who's gonna pay for that? It's all the result of NATO bombing. How do they live now, Mr. Dulic, citizens of Vojlovica, Starcheva, Topola, inhabited town, Sagittarius, Sodara and the whole city? Poor, pathetic, no one takes them for protection. You have a situation like this – only responsibility is transferred, there is a responsible Republic inspector. When you ask the Republic Inspector, he says – the province is responsible because the province has received jurisdiction. When you ask someone from the province, he says – it's a matter of local self-government. Mr. Minister, if I were a minister, I wouldn't propose any of this law, but I'd make one with professional people, a codified health care law, such as the Law on Liaison, such as the Criminal Code. There you have all the areas that are covered, and they cover one area. Therefore, this law does not need to have so many separatists, inflation is particularly about those regulations, sublegal acts and regulations. You mention in these laws and regulations. So what you started, Mr. Dulic, in Panchev, you end up. The Pancians are asking you for the commitment you took and the promise you made them, and I believe that you can do it, only with a little goodwill. Once again, please send an inspection to run a check on why there is no new dump and why the dump is old in the city center.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45847	Authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mrs Zlata Djeric, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45848	At the end of this exhaustive debate, where everyone has made their arguments, who thought it was necessary to say something about these laws, I think the minister has something constructive to think about and accept a significant number of amendments. I won't be long and I won't use it all the time. I just want to finish the question I tried to ask at the end of the previous presentation. So, I'm not a Eurofob, I'm a Eurofil, but I realized that the world and Europe, the one we seek, has no permanent friends, no enemies, they only have constant interests. Why don't we have our own interests? Why not protect these interests with all our resources? At this point in Serbia, surely public health is one of the most important interests, so I'm just interested, Mr. Minister, in whether the Ministry has an idea at all, has a plan, has an intention, has some vision that and when it starts really dealing with the investigation, by establishing, by bringing down some final results on what are the real consequences of NATO bombings in Serbia? I'm not just thinking about the material ones, you get the fastest, easiest and most concrete ones, and they're compensateable. The consequences that Serbia is suffering because of and will suffer and the whole of Europe, whether it wants it or not, are much longer, much more serious and much more dangerous, so I am only interested, since we have been through and since this is the fact that we have in our recent history, does the Ministry intend to deal seriously with this issue and to bring it to the citizens of Serbia, who are, and what kind of question is interested, to some extent with some final result and truth about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45849	Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for an extensive debate. I think we've come to some common conclusions. Regardless of the political differences, we all have the same goal. The environment, and it's not where our differences break, it's where most of us need to demonstrate our willingness to work together to fix a bad situation. It's always good to hear where there are problems and always take the opportunity to implement each of your parliamentary initiatives where it can be done. There's no need for reminders that there are wild dumps here or there, we're aware of it. For this reason we are here today, to create even more precise and more powerful legal instruments to make wild dumps smaller in the future, so that those who create them are more punished, and that, on the other hand, they create a condition that wild dumps no longer occur. It is also true when it comes to waste management, and when it comes to everything else, all other areas defined under one sentence – environmental protection. As for the question of the poored uranium, a year and a half ago we talked about it, and a year and a half ago you got information that was comprehensive and that meant the exact information when the solved places where the fact was from the air with the impoverished uranium and what happened to that ammunition and how the environmental pollution problem was solved. The studies that were then done, which are published and that exist today, can also be distributed to you. There may be a need in the future for a general study to assess all that are external influences, which nevertheless affect that there is an increase in the incidence of some diseases in this country. Is it the result of poor uranium, or is it something else? I can tell you that the Ministry ordered one study, and it should be published very quickly. The study concerns the consequences of environmental pollution caused by our activities, not enough good governance special during resistance, municipal waste, chemicals, biocidals, in the past period of human health. The publication of the study will be an integral part of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. There is no better way to raise human consciousness and warn about problems than to show a direct link between environmental pollution, on the one hand, and human health, on the other hand. The fact is that we have a slightly increased incidence of malformations occurring in newborns, and the occurrence of certain malignancies, and the occurrence of certain metabolic diseases and the occurrence of certain anomalies. These are all things that are mostly related to pollution, and it needs scientific proof now, it needs to be published, and it needs to become an integral part, or, let me say, an entry parameter in the creation of every policy that awaits us in the future. That's what happens where the bombing was and where the bombing wasn't. That's what's happening where there's been an impoverished uranium. Unfortunately, it happens where it wasn't, so I would include this factor as very important, but I would never rule out the other factor that we contributed to. When we talk about all these wild dumps that you described me with today, they were not thrown away by the Martians, nor cast out by the Germans, nor cast out by the enemies, they were cast out by us. We have formed all the wild deposits in Serbia and all the poison that enters our organisms is the consequence of our activities. We need to be aware of that. Every time someone is able to open a window and just throw garbage into nature, they have to realize that one day the chemicals from that waste will reach him and some of his children's cells. That's gotta be everyone's awareness. All of these laws are trying to fix what is the consequence of ignoring the issue of environmental protection in the past. We don't seek responsibility for any single moment. We have no intention of accusing anyone of past failures. We have a situation that we have and we will need huge investments in environmental protection, but, as I said at the beginning, it will take a huge effort to create institutional preconditions to get good institutions with professional people who are more important to meet all the legal standards than to think about their own interest, to think about when they're going to go home and that they don't care what their business is. Unfortunately, there is much more to this day and we must consider the reforms that we are implementing. So thank you for your support. As I understand it, many of you will support these laws or some of them, regardless of what we belong to different political parties. That's how it's supposed to be in the future. Most of your amendments have been accepted, we will discuss them further and we will have opportunities to discuss in particular. Anyway, these Ministry men and I are grateful for today's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-10-27-0.u45851	Thank you, Mr. Secretary and his associates. I am concluding a joint principled review on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chemicals, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Biocidal Products, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Strategic Impact Assessment on the Environment, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management and the Proposal for a Law on Meteorological and Hydrological Activity. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation. Just to remind you that tomorrow, at 4:00 p.m., we're going to be members of the government.
