ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43315	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that the meetings are attended by 92 MPs, and in order to determine the quorum required for work, I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, and that there are conditions for working since more than one third of the MPs are present, I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, Aleksandar Pejčić, Bojan Kostreš, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Laslo Varga. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called, in addition to the representative of Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, and Milutin Mrkonjic, the Minister of Infrastructure, who will attend the sittings as a representative of the promoter, and then Dragan Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry Dragisa Simic, Head of the Interior Ministry and Damir Hadzic, senior adviser in the Transport Security Department of the Ministry of Infrastructure. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Security of the Roads (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the People's MPs to the Bill: Jasmina Milošević, Dragan Marković, Milan Avramović, Nikola Savić, Petar Petrović, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Masić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Boris Peljević, Mileta Poskurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogerton, Vučeta as well as the Toštić, Dragan Šović, Žaljan Šilić, Žaljanić, Žaljanić, Žaljanić, Žaljanić, Žalić, Žalić, Žaljanić, Žalić, Žaljanić, Žarić, Žalić, Žaljanić. You have received a report from the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the debate under the amendment to Article 1, and on the basis of Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing the National Assembly that we will be working today after 1800 hours of searching the agenda point that at that time is the subject of our work. If the search in the details of the agenda point that has just been opened ends before 6 p.m., then we will move on to the search in particular on the next item of the agenda, but not beyond that point. Thank you. I would like to remind you that representatives for the 3rd item of the agenda are authorised representatives: MP Sinisa Stamenkovic - PUBS MP, MP Zoran Ostojic - MP LDP, MP Jasmina Milosevic - MP SPS-JS Group, MP Miroslav Petkovic - MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Jovan Nesovic - MP group G17 plus, MP Nikola Savic - MP of the SRS and MP Mirko Cikiriz - Parliament group of ZES. We're doing a search in detail on the 3rd item of the agenda and after 1800 hours if we don't finish, and if we finish the search in the details of the fourth item of the agenda and after 1800 hours. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Milosevic and Dragan Markovic Palma. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted the amendment. Since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee, this amendment will be declared by the National Assembly in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was accepted, but did not become an integral part of the bill, since we do not have a report from the Legislative Committee. He therefore remains in search and all those who have the right to speak have the right to seek it and to receive it. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Transport and Relations, submitted an amendment to Article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43316	I wanted more apropo of the previous amendment submitted by our parliamentary group. I will just say briefly that it refers to an amendment that is closer to defining the settlement to which it has been delayed practically by the end of the year, because then we expect that signs will be completed and placed that mark the beginning and end of the settlement, which would mean a lot to people, i.e. traffic police, or us, traffic users, and to define that amendment as such only closer to defining the settlement. I expect that in the voting day, we will all accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43317	A 30-second mandated representative has been used. Anyone else want a word? That is exactly what I have asked for consultations from the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, given that it is an amendment to the Committee on Traffic and Connections and to determine whether you are then a member of the Committee or an authorised representative, that is the reason for the consultations. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the ministry, I'm sorry that I'm not here to try another way to convince the minister to accept this amendment, but he may arrive in the meantime, so I'm going to start my own argument so I don't waste my time. My amendment refers to the addition of Article 1, which says that in point 100, which is referred to by a member or preamble, after the word'rest', the words 'provided by a tachograph cartridge' are added. To make it clear to the citizens, I asked for a break between driving in one day to be defined and confirmed by a tachograph pad, which would also be some proof that the break was even made. Therefore, for the sake of the citizens themselves, Article 1 reads: "In the Law on road safety, in Article 7 paragraph 99, point 99 is replaced by point 100), 101) and 102, which reads '... . I was based on the 100th point that says, "The day-to-day driving time" is the total driving time between the end of one and the beginning of the next vacation." I asked that the end of the rest and the beginning of the next be defined by proof of the tachograph pad, because the very concept of the tachograph cartridge was defined in the bill of law in individual members. In particular, I am referring to Article 322, which refers to a credible misdemeanor, which states that a credible document proving the execution of the offence is a video and photo recording which clearly shows the vehicle that has committed the offence, the registration number of the vehicle and the essential markings of the offence. Under 2 - tachograph cartridge and other record from the tachograph cartridge. Mrs. Comic, I don't know if I have any working conditions, but I think it would be appropriate for you to provide it for me, since I can't hear myself. I'll remind you that it's Article 32. The law defines what a tachograph cartridge is. I'll also remind you of the Regulation on how police officers handle direct traffic control operations on the roads. Thus, Article 17 says: "In the course of performing the work referred to in Article 15. The Regulation, a police officer may request persons who are trafficked on the road to show an insight into the driver’s license, ID card or other ID card, a tachograph cartridge, assurance of the correctness of the vehicle, or confirmation of the correctness of the vehicle’s gas-powered vehicle, to verify its data through the records and to take action and measures according to drivers.” What bothers me is why the amendment is not accepted. The government's explanation says that the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the syntagma "provided by the tachograph layer (what I asked for in the amendment) is too high and imprecise since this information can only be proved by the tachograph cartridge when it comes to analogue tachographs, while digital tachographs determine this information by getting a look at the memory card. Now I ask you, the representatives of the Ministry who defend this law – where in law there is a selection on analogue and digital tachograph? What is the difference between analogue and digital tachograph, and how is it controlled? Here, I read article 322. The law, which states that tachograph control is mandatory, but does not write the division of tachographs into analogue and digital. If we have received a report from the government that it's incorrect that we're looking for an analysis of the tachograph pad, and there's no precise written in the law how to define the tachograph input on analogue and digital, then we're clearly moving under the existing law. Since our amendment has not been accepted, and it is not in the existing law, it means that something that exists is not accepted, not what exists. So I ask you, gentlemen of the Ministry, if you had any understanding of my discussion, to realize that there is no division of tachographs in the law of any kind, so that neither in the amendment can there be a division of tachographs into any kind, either analoguely or digitally, and that therefore this amendment should be accepted. Otherwise, I will be forced to use systems, here's a little joke, to strike hunger and thirst in the interior ministry building, so that my amendment can be adopted, maybe we can join the semester, so we can come up with some common solution to make the next law better.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43319	Three minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending the Traffic Safety Act so that in its first position, point 102, the word "week" is replaced by "seven". I believe that the term "seven" is more reasonable, more comprehensive and better defined by this subject, especially if we know that Sunday is just one of those seven days that make up a week, and here I am particularly surprised by the government's argument of not accepting this amendment. It is said here that the reason for not accepting is because in the text of the law in many places the term "weeks" is used, and then they would have to make major changes to that law. I was just in the explanation that I gave you and attached this amendment to help you accept this amendment and consider this, because in similar regulations, let's say from the field of education, which treat the term "weeks" and "sevens", the term "sevens" is used. So, the working calendar just uses the term "seven," and you're here to explain that in the Traffic Act, or the Ministry of Traffic doesn't use that term, but to use the term "weeks." I'd like to appeal to the government to accept this amendment, to bring the government's terminology into line by the ministries because every day the paper is full of headlines where it's said that this government works well, that there are no cracks, that everything is in the best order, the government is harmonious, and we see here that one ministry uses one term, and another ministry uses another term.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43321	A 15-second mandated representative has been used. Anyone else want a word? National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment adding new members 1a and 1b to Serbia after Article 1. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43322	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representatives of the ministry, proposed amendments and by adding Articles 1a and 1b to the amendments refer to the existing Law on Road Safety. I would not like to comment on this argument because we discussed and discussed in principle, given the situation and the reasons of the minister, that the upcoming summer period should understand the essence and importance of the draft law amending the Law on traffic safety on the roads. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I explained that the proposed amendments to the Transport Safety Act on the roads did the same thing in order not to come into the winter period, so that it is necessary to change what has become unusable with the application of the Road Safety Act. Articles 17 and 18 of the Law on traffic security on the roads prescribed that fines were charged in an appropriate percentage to be distributed between the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of local self-government on whose territory a certain offence was committed. It is decidently stated that the corresponding part of the funds in the larger amount belongs to the budget of the Republic and is used as such to equip traffic police units. I must once again underline and remind myself that fines are a classic budget income and that they cannot be given to individual laws and acts, such as the amendment of the Law on Road Safety, these funds to certain organisations available. Article 92 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed to show revenue and expenditure in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the Law on the Budget System, in Article 19, that fines are public revenue belonging to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The budgetary system law does not provide for any possibility of redistributing this type of money, so that money cannot be channelled for certain purposes provided for by specific legal proposals, such as in this case the equipment of the traffic police from the part of the revenue from the fines, as the funds for such purposes are determined by the said Budget Act. This solution, where the funds for police work depend on the number and weight of applications filed and resolved by the same traffic police, is not known in the parallel right of any European country, nor in the principles that apply to the EU, and we know that Serbia and we all strive to join the same. The automatic provisions of the amendment of the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads by traffic police are in conflict of interest, and these disputed provisions of the law could challenge the impartiality of the traffic police in law enforcement, and would also undermine its reputation, both with citizens and with judicial authorities, which should respond to the applications submitted. What would happen, for example, if, in the long areas of fines, for crimes in the area against life and to be awarded to the criminal police, for violations in the field of labour inspection, for violations in the area of environmental protection to the Ministry of Environmental Protection? Normally, in any case, that amount would belong to both the proportions and the local self-governments whose territory is a violation from these areas and arises. This law automatically places traffic police in a more equal position than other authorities of the other state administration. At the same time, the future of the deployment and the purpose of these funds provided for by the collection of these offences is not defined by this law and the allocation of these funds is completely unknown, because financing the improvement of traffic safety is indeed a very broad and undefined concept. The law also does not determine how to plan and control the spending of funds, so that, possibly, money from the collection of violations can be lost. What would happen, for example, in a situation where transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget have been halved since last year in relation to local self-government? It occurs to some president of the municipality that, given such a possibility, in co-operation with local police, it requires that the full budget of local self-government will cause violations to be filed in greater numbers and for all things possible. If this were in practice and indeed, then in an unequal situation would be municipalities that are in rural areas outside traffic corridors. That is why we have proposed that Article 18 be deleted for these reasons and that Article 17 be completed with the submissions for amendment of Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43323	Four minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a letter from Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43324	Mrs. Comic, I've already reported on the previous amendment, you probably haven't noticed. I didn't hear you say Mr. Peter Petrovic's amendment was accepted, which was accepted, which defines the week closer, so I just wanted to ask whether you missed it or not. That's why I'm just picking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43325	Thank you. The previous amendment, which was submitted to article 1 by MP Petar Petrovic, was accepted, but it remains in discussion because there is no report from the Legislative Committee and cannot become an integral part of the bill's proposal. As soon as he's under search, someone who wants to have the right to take a word for it. In voting day, we will plead. Does anyone else want a word by amendment establishing new members of 1a and 1b? MP Velimir Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43326	I'm glad that we got on the Transport and Connection Committee an extremely large number of amendments that were quite good and to improve a little law, because we knew when the law was passed that there would be certain problems, especially as regards fines, then prison sentences for some violations. I am pleased that one part of the amendment has been adopted and the law has been improved, but it would be good if another part of the amendment had been accepted, so that it would not be safe to put this back on the agenda later in the fall and adopt some new amendments. Therefore, we were certain that yet another part of the amendment, which was extremely significant, would be accepted to improve the law and to have the sure possibility of this law going on for a long time. I am pleased that this law was written in part and during my term of office, something has been slightly corrected, that it is quite a good law and that it has given effect to traffic safety. But there remains one fact that is extremely important, that some highways must be built in highways because it is impossible to maintain safe traffic where the traffic frequency is extremely high. We can't talk about traffic safety by any legal provision if we have a master's trip, for example at Lazarec's 27,000 cars a day, if we have 17,000 cars a day in Cells, which requires traffic to be safe, highway, and not highway. So you have to work on it and you have to put it in priority. Not to make highways there politically where required, but where the traffic frequency dictates. It is impossible and should speed up these works on bridges around Belgrade, on a bypass around Belgrade, it is a pity that it cares. It is impossible to say that there will be safe traffic on Gazela, if it is projected for 40,000 cars a day, and we already have 160,000 cars a day. Regardless of any law, any penalties can't be so affected that traffic improves and that deaths, car accidents as little as possible if it's technically impossible for traffic to take place. I therefore appeal to the police department and the infrastructure to speed up the construction of these roads where it is necessary to build a highway in order to significantly improve the quality of traffic and thus to improve safety. Therefore, I was in favour of adopting another part of the amendments that were extremely good from the political parties that were giving, however, some practice that the amendments of the opposition were not adopted is not good because there were many good amendments. Now we heard an amendment that was pretty good and needed support. We cannot, in order to have safe traffic, share amendments in position and opposition. A good amendment, which can improve security and make traffic safer, must be adopted, no matter who suggests it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43327	Four minutes of time has been spent by the president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment adding a new article after article 1. 1a, 1b and 1v The Government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43328	Thank you, Vice President, a, b, v – on Cyrillic. In any case, the government did not accept these amendments for formal reasons, the government said, because they are changing members that the government did not want to change with these amendments. Number one, the government didn't want to change, that's a mistake. We MPs want to take advantage of the opportunity when the law changes to change and those members who need to change. I don't really see what formal reasons mean. It's about life, death, injuries, damage. What formal reasons? Unfortunately, the Legislative Committee is not yet completed, if our amendments are legally possible, the Government cannot, calling for formal reasons, to refuse to change anything that needs to be changed. What do we propose to these amendments to change? The safety of children. Now it says that children over three years of age can be tied with a belt and up to three years in that elevated seat. However, it is insecure by European standards that children under 150 centimeters are bound by an adult belt. They go over their necks, across their faces, they can choke, they can be major injuries. That's why we suggest that instead of three years it's been writing for six years. About six years old, children reach 150. What's so controversial about that? Some child will survive or suffer severe injuries. Then, the current law says that up to three years of age, children can drive in the front seat, in a special basket that is placed on the front seat and is reversed. However, some children, at the age of two, are seated, have some type of zero categorization there, and it is foreseen for children up to 13 kilos. He's got kids who get that weight by the age of two. That's why we suggest that, as the manufacturers of these seats say, children ride up to 13 kg, no matter how old they are. These changes are subject to EU Directive 2003-20/3 and I simply do not understand why it is not accepted for formal reasons, when this is in the interest of traffic security. No politics, nothing is taken from the police, no authority. If you say it's for formal reasons, there's no minister to ask him, so if you agree with what you expect from us, that in September, when a regular session begins, we propose amendments to this law, you will adopt, but I have no one to ask. After all, with this amendment, this article, we propose to include riding a motorcycle on the back wheel in a violent ride. It's not regulated by the law so far. From the moment we proposed an amendment until today, until this morning, there was a death case. In Novi Sad yesterday, a savage rode a motorcycle at the back wheel and killed a child. Now you're saying it's not accepted for formal reasons. So, since you didn't want that member to change, let people die, because someone's riding a motorcycle in the back seat. I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43329	One minute and 45 seconds of authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a traffic safety law, and so that Article 2 is deleted. I have to say, I didn't put up with this amendment just like that, let's make it an amendment for the amendments, and let the member delete himself, but for one essential reason. Namely, this member of the 2nd Amendment and the addition of the law extends the circle, the scope of the vehicle for which the speed limiter is introduced. On the other hand, the legislator predicted one very important thing. Here is also a request to delete the provision of a member of the law which confirms, i.e. which obliges that the speed limiter to be used. So it turns out that the vehicle must have a speed limit, but the law removes the obligation for that speed limiter to be used. As a result, this member of the law is contradictory, and for this reason I have submitted to his erasure. The government has here, in an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, stated that the speed limit is defined by the European Directive and that in this and this particular case, it must be respected. Of course, I didn't ask to delete a member for the removal of the speed limiter, the speed limiter and how it should exist, but I think you've overlooked here, look, and I appeal here to the government's present representatives to think carefully about accepting this amendment and to introduce an obligation by amendment to use the limiter, when it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43331	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment to Article 2, which is added after Article 2. A new member of the 2a, by consulting with the MP, saw that there were errors in the report. I'm sorry, it wasn't done on purpose. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43332	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, I explain the amendment where Article 2 is held. The bill changes so that Article 45(2) reads: "In freight vehicles over 1,200 kilograms and buses over 1,000 kilograms of mass must be installed a device to limit the speed of movement starting from 1 January 2012. The following shall be added to paragraphs 3, 4 and 5: Speed limitation devices shall be set at the following maximum speeds: 90 kilometers per hour for freight vehicles over 1,200 kilograms, 100 kilometers per hour for buses weighing more than 1000 kilograms, at 80 km per hour for freight vehicles used for the transport of dangerous materials. Vehicles registered in the Republic of Serbia for the first time since 31 December 2010 cannot be registered unless they have a device to limit the speed of movement. Also, the provisions of Article 2 shall not apply to vehicles of the Serbian Army, fire-fighting vehicles and vehicles used to maintain public order and peace and protect security and the rescue of people and property, vehicles used for scientific research, road testing, vehicles which, according to their constructive properties, cannot achieve the prescribed maximum speed laid down in item 3, vehicles used for public transport and other municipal needs exclusively in populated areas and also vehicles registered before 1 January 2011 without a device and do not have technical options for subsequent installation. Also, Section 3 is deleted. We wanted it here, although the government did not change this member, and that does not mean that we cannot define a member who is not the subject of this amendment to the law, because Article 2. The bill must be amended because it does not comply with Directive 96/66 of 10 February 1992. It states that the speed limit device must have all the cargo vehicles weighing over 3,500 kilograms and all the buses. However, Article 1 of the Directive stipulates that this obligation applies only to buses weighing more than 10 tonnes and freight vehicles weighing more than 12 tonnes, i.e. vehicles of category M3 and N3, as defined by Directive 70/166. The amendment is proposed to amend the text of Article 2. The proposal complies with Directive 92/6. The deadlines and the procedure for compliance with the law have also been set, as otherwise tens of thousands of vehicles should be excluded from traffic after the law has entered into force within eight days of publication. The application of this provision to already registered vehicles would have a feedback, which is contrary to Article 197. The Constitution. Directive 92/6 in Article 3(2) provides for the possibility to further limit the speed of vehicles carrying dangerous substances, whereas Article 6 provides for exceptions, as covered by this amendment. I don't think it is necessary to specifically explain why the installation of expensive devices in urban transport vehicles and other utility vehicles, as well as their maintenance, would be unnecessary costs for municipalities and the state. If EU countries feel that they are not rich enough to install these devices on all vehicles, it is difficult for the Serbian state to see this as a legitimate cost. The proposal that devices must be installed in all buses and all cargo vehicles, in particular in a way prescribed by the disputed Article 2, is considered to be very problematic. The first possibility is that it is a complete ignorance of the law writer, who is unable to read and interpret European regulations, which we assure ourselves in every new bill that comes into the Assembly. However, we think it is quite obvious that it is another attempt to rob Serbian citizens. Writers of this bill planned to force several hundred thousand car owners to install the devices. Although the Directive does not apply to those categories of vehicles, it is all in agreement with privileged individuals, whose companies will be exclusively authorised to import these devices, install, maintain. Actres of this fraud planned to kidnap from the owners of the vehicle and citizens of Serbia and to establish another impose. The reasoning does not include an assessment of the costs that the citizens will have, although it is mandatory under the law. To prevent future victims from knowing what is being prepared, the proposal was written in secret and directed to the National Assembly on Friday night by emergency procedure. It is obvious from everything that the proposal was written with the intention to rob citizens of money and establish another imposition, not to improve traffic. The only question remains – what percentage of profits will be given to someone who wrote this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43333	Three minutes and 35 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? National MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43334	It's just incomprehensible that we're talking about things like this in principle. It's a little funny, but you're making laws because of the traffic in the summer period, that is, traffic in the summer period of the year. We are directing you specifically to the European Regulation, not only on the basis of, or a member of, the 1st said 90th member of European legislation. We give you paper with total translation, i.e. the translation of the European Regulation. There's no minister at the moment, and now there's no minister. We are not clear at all who writes answers to the amendments, or whether the Ministry is doing it, whether representatives of the Ministry do it, whether they are doing certain congregation services and what previous colleagues, Mr. Ilic and Mr. Ostojić said, it is impossible that you are really just so smart and that you do not accept anything else that is very important for the safety of all road traffic users, and that only those proposals and amendments to the Traffic Safety Act that you have made during this period, because of the increased traffic jam in the summer period of the year in traffic, remember to submit. Once again, we will be in a position to discuss European standards, European legislation, and that the member mentioned is not in compliance with European Regulation 92 on traffic safety. What else do we have to do to get you to the situation that it doesn't matter where the amendments come from, but that the amendments should literally be acceptable only in view of the safety of traffic participants and nothing else, not whether you submitted them or whether someone from the opposition, as counterpart Ostojic said, submitted them. It is truly incomprehensible that you who advocate European standards and introduce Serbia into the EU for years do not accept these standards, i.e. that European regulations do not want to comment entirely on how they write, but only on the individual acts to which European regulations apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43335	Two minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment, which was added to Article 2a after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43336	I'm glad you're back, Mr. Minister. The minister holding a picture of Milosevic, Tadic and Obama in the cabinet should be a little more inclined towards European values, as the newly-roasted Europeans say. You may feel uncomfortable about this European attack, but we still have to comply with this law. You refuse to accept amendments that allow for safer transport of children, you refuse to accept the amendment that sets motorcycles at the last point in a violent driving, so it is no wonder that in article 62 you refuse to accept the extension of privileges from police to healthcare professionals. For the sake of viewers, I will read Article 62: "The driver must not stop, or park a vehicle in a place where it would endanger the safety of other traffic participants or pose an obstacle to normal traffic and pedestrian movement." Item 2, I read the basic law: "The provisions of this stop-and-parking law shall not apply to police officers in the performance of their official duties, if the obligation to comply with the provisions on the prohibition of stopping or parking of a vehicle would hinder the successful performance of their official duties". We're not asking the police to take away that privilege so they can park wherever they want. We're just saying, add health care professionals. Health care professionals take people on dialysis, carry severe patients on the stretchers. Why don't they have that privilege in performing their official duties, too, but only the police? If you didn't accept it, then I get why you won't accept it. Why would only the police have the right to illegally park, park so that it interferes with traffic? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, MP Zoran Krasic has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zoran Krasic asked that Article 3 be deleted, with an explanation, as he stated, that neither existing sublaws nor government nor ministry nor officials should respect it. What is the fact is also evidence, our amendment to Article 1 of point 100, where we said that the legislation was implemented in the amendment and that the amendment was rejected, then how can we believe that any sublegal act could be respected in the future? First of all, it is a member relating to a traffic security review, which says the minister responsible for traffic operations can pass a regulation and conditions that must be met by persons who will carry out those procedures. Now, here on the other hand, we have amendments to the Committee on Security and Traffic, in which we have heard the chairman of the Committee say that some amendments have been adopted and on what basis. What came to my attention is the committee's explanation - these amendments are in a more precise and more adequate way domestic regulations are in line with EU rules. I am now asking you, who are defending this law, in which EU countries are not being respected? You don't accept an amendment here in which we implement an existing member of the sublaw in law. You say - can't enter the tachograph into the draft amendments and amendments to the law, although it does say in the decision of the regulation to be made under Article 341. The traffic safety law, according to which the interior minister adopts a Regulation on how police officers handle operations, controls and direct traffic regulation on roads, says - has the right to demand from persons who are trafficked by a tachograph stake. We are now repainting this and we say in the law it should be said that rest must be proved by a tachograph cartridge, and you say – we do not accept it. This is not the EU's current now. When the Committee submits something, it is the EU's liquid. Let's first discuss what is the EU's fluid and what is not. Are sublegal acts accepted or not accepted? Since you do not accept them, then counterpart Krasic is absolutely right when he says you should not bring other sublaws because you do not respect the existing ones. That is why he requested that Article 3 be deleted in which the conditions are defined, including the conditions that you must fulfil and the persons who will carry out those procedures brought by the minister, relating to the audit of traffic security. The audit of traffic security is something that requires a large number of employees, an area that will be a special department at the Ministry and a team or a group of people who will deal only with these responsibilities provided for in Article 3. in which it is said – traffic safety on the road network, road safety checks, regular road checks in exploitation, traffic safety monitoring, high-risk stock analysis, road safety analysis with deceased persons, traffic recording and other traffic volumes in progress. The conditions must be met by auditors, the way in which the auditor is conducted and the examinations shall be passed. Conditions that, from the point of view of traffic safety, must be met by travel facilities and other elements of the public road by the minister responsible for traffic operations. Now that someone's listening to this discussion of mine, they might think we're against being the security of traffic at the highest level. No, just the other way around. You will prescribe by sublegislative how the responsibility of the road safety auditor will be regulated, and when it is necessary to implement it, the decision may not be respected. Why am I setting an example of disrespect? Because an existing decision on how an official should exercise control when he stops the vehicle, how he can ask for a ID card and a tachograph, you say – the tachograph does not have to ask, it is in Article 322. Then what would he have to seek the safety of the road if he didn't have to seek a basic member of the law that had already been passed in the first version of an existing law that had been amended I don't know how many times? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't know how to illustrate or create a parallel to compare what is good for the citizens of Serbia, that security must exist and that amendments that act on security must be adopted. The chairman himself says that there are good amendments that have not been adopted because most people did not want to. What has most of the committee done with these amendments? She wrote an explanation that the existing draft laws with amendments are under way with the EU tradition. Isn't it the tradition of the EU that existing sublegal acts are respected? Since it is not here, do not call on the EU or adopt this amendment to make it easier for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43339	Five minutes and 22 seconds of MP time were used. The word is a folk letter from Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43340	I'll speak as authorized, so you know you can take that time away from me. I was planning to pick up a little later, but I'm pretty revolutionized by Mr. Avramovic's words that he seemed to have been on the Traffic Committee, so he knows that we as most of us didn't purposely want to accept the amendments to the opposition. First, I want to deny it, because I find myself offended, because that's not true. I'm a member of that board and I'm there all the time. Besides, it's not true, because we have an accepted amendment that the LDP has submitted. Secondly, the number of amendments you have submitted, as well as the people of the LDP, who have not resented us, still refers to some members of the law that are now not on the agenda. It can only be a reason and nothing else. You mentioned here a couple of times about the tachograph. I think it's something that's pleonasm, because it's understood that tachograph is something that every truck driver must give as evidence and what defines the way and management of that vehicle. Well, I'd just like to come back in general for this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Now, if I compare the things I said in the statement in principle, there's little I can say without repeating myself. I find it very important, it is now apropo Mr. Mic Rogovic, I don't want to say anything bad, nor to challenge a replica, but isn't it normal for you that if at one point it turns out that a member of the law is not sufficiently applicable on the road or the moment comes, you can't know in advance when a member of the law will be in a live traffic, when the empirical to prove that something isn't good. You can't predict things and you know it in advance. Yes, there are some things that can happen in the course of road design, so that later in the exploitation it turns out that something is not good, as Mr Velimir Ilic said, that certain traffic at capacity, and they were designed that the traffic that happens on them exceeds that capacity and that it is something that really needs to be done. That's why I don't think it's a bad thing that changes and additions of these and individual members of the law are being made at all, because it has been practically shown in practice, in its live use, that they haven't been good. So it's no good when we're making the law at the beginning and now it's no good even when we're correcting what wasn't right. It's just a illogicality I couldn't understand. It's just that there's something in this country called traffic policy. Traffic policy is something that has priority traffic security and comprehensive of the state, in this case it is the ministries of infrastructure, police, and the Ministry of Education, which all together should practically participate in the construction and definition of and traffic policy. Only the ministries and society as a whole must strive to practically promote the measures proposed by the government, in fact the competent ministries for the reason that one moment when bad situations occur, everyone asks who is responsible and why did this happen, did you have any goals, any programs, and what are your results? Otherwise, statistics have shown that, for example, one monetary unit that invests in traffic security almost ten times more returns from costs that would be to avoid the safety of traffic. The second thing, I don't think it's mentioned so far that we are a member of the CENTA and that the CENTA members actually have the goal of reducing the number of deaths by 2012, in fact, the total number of people killed in traffic by 50%. That's exactly what we're doing, and I'm guessing that's another reason that we've also stated that by 2012, we want 50% of the total number of accidents that are happening. As far as traffic safety audit is concerned, I know something about it, Mr Avramovic, so I would say that it is something that is not so represented in Europe, it is still only in turn because it is very expensive, difficult and complicated. We will have the opportunity, hopefully and I believe, to do traffic audits, because they are done both on existing and newly designed, on those that are only in exploitation and who will be. Why? This involves monitoring, analysis, measures, traffic measurement, even what kind of answers infrastructure itself and vehicles itself and vehicle mode and even frequency on that part of the road. That, I hope, is true, and I believe, when a full transport security agency is in place, because it will be that organ that will collect all that data based on which to run the analysis and define things in the future and define preventive measures in general to bring these things into order. So, I love that there's Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic for the reason we've just got the construction of Corridor 10, the following cars and the complete infrastructure that follows there. You are now also able to bring down critical traffic security shares at the beginning of projects on a minimum basis, and practically in this way, already at the beginning of these infrastructure projects, we reduce the possibility of happening, or these bad accidents that can happen on the road. So, I know we live in a time where we're addicted to both cars and cell phones and other modern devices, but we just can't let our concentration drop so much and be so burdened with other things that we're sitting behind a wheel in a state of alcohol, which happens to people. We must not let our concentration drop to this extent to drive violently and practically what we should all have as a task is to promote exactly that defensive ride, as far as the driver is concerned. As far as pedestrians are concerned, really children should get from school that educational program, which must exist, because sometimes, you have to admit, parents are not the right example for a child to behave in traffic. That's why there's an education that should be sent to the children. I think it's very good that now some of the funds are going to go to traffic upgrades, how follow-up signals and it's going to be good when one day we have cameras set up in different places, not only in Belgrade, but I'm talking about all of Serbia, because when you look at reality, you don't have a single activity anywhere that's so ghastly and that has so many contradictions that you have to combine and let go. You have professionals, you have amateurs. You have the wheel of a man who's been driving for 30 years, you have a child at the same moment at a walking crossing that is five or six years old where you have to through this one law to bring all their needs into line and that each of them at the beginning knows how to handle traffic. I therefore consider it very good, but also complicated to make a good safety law, as Minister Dacic himself has pointed out that it is practically a living organism, which only after its use has its own development, means it is experiencing its changes and that is what I expect in the future to happen, precisely because the purpose of this law is to prevent the number of car accidents, preserve human lives, and, of course, I have already repeated the apropo of a famous member who is able to pay 15 days in prison instead of 15 days. I just want to say once again to the citizens, they'll figure out who understands what they're going to say, the laws make us free. Those who obey the laws will have no problem with any punishment, nor will they care whether they go to prison or should pay the penalty. So I repeat once again that our parliamentary group in the voting day will support the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43341	Seven minutes and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. Time available to the parliamentary group 58 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43342	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, listening to this previous explanation, we all conclude that this law is necessary, that this law is so good that amendments and additions are not necessary. I must agree that some liquids are normal and that in one bill, if there is one member, it must be applied. Just because no rest control is applied by drivers who use vacations, through tachographs does not apply, we wrote the amendment that it is mandatory to control tachographs. I'll read what the government says, so there's no confusion in telling the truth. We obviously don't understand each other, and we think the same thing. He says, "The government does not accept this amendment for the reason it is a syntagma, which proves to be a tachograph cartridge, superfluous and imprecise, given that this information can only be proved by a tachograph cartridge when it comes to analogue tachographs, while digital tachographs determine this information by taking into account the memory card." Where is the memory card in the bill? It doesn't exist anywhere. There are only tachographs in Article 322. We've made an amendment based on that member. Since I agree with you that it is normal to use it, and it is abnormal to reject it as a use, because the government has rejected this amendment, and then we have a report from the former Minister of Infrastructure and the current chairman of the board, which says it is an amendment that is good, which is not accepted by the board, and then we have this parallel that cuts, what needs to be applied, and what is not, which is related to the sublaw. So, if we're going to apply a law that needs to work on security and a security auditor, then we have to apply the conditions for drivers. We have a 150km stake in Belgrade-Cacchak to travel for four hours. What are the conditions for every driver to travel 100 miles for four hours? Then, if his tire breaks, there's a full line behind him, whoever visits him has committed a misdemeanor, because there's no parking to shut down. So, we create traffic conditions, then we make an auditor control traffic conditions. We now have an auditor to control something that does not exist at 50% of Serbia's traffic shares. There is a disfellowshipping for parking and a highway safety net, and on the magistrate's road we don't, and then we get into a situation where we travel from Belgrade to Cačka for four hours, respecting traffic restrictions. What's the point? Conditions not made cannot be controlled. That's why you delete Article 3. The second thing, the Committee does not need to sit untransparently or transparently in order for other MPs to know what is happening on it. There are parliamentary groups that have representatives on all committees who know what the subject was and how the Committee sessions went. And no amendments have been accepted on the Committee itself, because they come from the sides they come from. Because it was a suggestion from the board president, I heard it this morning in this room. It's not my personal opinion, it's the opinion of the president of the board. If the board president's telling the truth, then so am I. Another very important thing, if the Committee is based on EU liquids and regulations relating to infrastructure, to security, to control, which then you do not accept these amendments, then you are not for EU liquids. We can audit the safety of the road in that situation when conditions are made and when we make the way. The security audit of traffic, traffic facilities, exclusions, overpasses, underpasses, the weight that will go beyond that can only be made when we do that. We haven't done it yet, and we have an audit. Besides, what's the agency doing in charge of security? What's the part? Is she alive? We had a budget auditor agency, so she didn't come back to life. We need to find a parallel in which we can reconcile wishes and possibilities, to fit conditions with drivers, and then punish drivers for any violation. This way we'll punish the driver for the offense he had to commit. I've set a simple example. Part of the road section reserved for the traffic of motor vehicles Belgrade – Cačak 150km travelling for four hours, respecting the restriction. God forbid you get a flat tire, you have to stand on the side of the road, everyone doing the bypass will commit a misdemeanor because they're treading a full line. So what do we do? This auditor will make an assessment that the safety of the road is compromised. And what's his conclusion? Pay the fine for what's a flat tire or drive to the first stop on the feline. Do not act irresponsiblely, if you are already calling on the EU, follow EU standards and punish them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43343	Four minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Mico Rogovic has a word. Time available 14 minutes and 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43344	Here, for the sake of understanding, or clarification of misunderstanding, respected colleague Milosevic, we either don't understand each other or we don't listen enough. I really don't want to repeat what I said in the principle debate about the submitted amendment and the supplementation on traffic safety, at least not all of what I said because it would really be too much to say exactly the same thing within three days. As a parliamentary group, we have presented the situation that a good road safety law is road traffic, but we have also asked that this time, when amending and supplementing the existing law, some other amendments should be applied so as not to eventually come into the situation that in some so-called so-called. In winter we are changing this same road safety law again. It is incomprehensible that at the moment what you have suggested is only right and we really have nothing against these amendments, but we are just asking for clarification of the same, the addition of new members who have indeed proved inadequate in applying European legislation to the existing law. From the reasons and everything else and the material that we have given you, it is said that the bill does not comply with the European legislation. What is it that is unpredictable in traffic? It is an infrastructure that is improving, it is modernising in terms of means, i.e. participants in traffic, vehicles, and everything else, respected counterpart Milosevic, has long been created, it has not occurred on the day neither the application of this law nor the submission of the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43345	One minute and 55 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43346	I will spend my time authorized as deputy president of the parliamentary group. I want to clarify one formal ambiguity, not just for this case, but for all cases of amendments to those members of the law that are not subject to amendments and additions to the motion. So, Mrs. Jasmina quite rightly said that we all went wide, but for the reasons that she has just stated: the complexity of a law that treats many participants and that, when mistakes are made, there is consequences, do not wrinkle paper when a member of the law is wrong or the collection in some extra table is not good. The mistakes of this law, the mistakes of its non-application cover the country. Human lives are the consequences of bad and law and his disrespect. Make it look dramatic, but I think better traffic signs along the way than speed limits, flowers left behind, or monuments standing in those places, as evidence that something is a black spot, so the problem of road infrastructure or lack of respect for speed limits is bad. This means that this matter, so important, deserves our attention that we are now talking about the Rules of Procedure, literally reading Article 147. The rules of procedure are still in force, which says, "A proposal to amend and supplement the bill, the amendment, is submitted to the president of the National Assembly in writing." This means not only to change what the promoter has provided, but also to supplement what we are using as an opportunity for the bill that was considered good when he gave it previously in the procedure, we have not been able to change either by refusing amendments or we have missed that possibility, but we are now using the business opportunity to add new members, to literally treat the Serbian language and the essence of the words they say – changes and additions to the bill. That's one explanation I'll explain to you with concrete results. Proposer, Minister Ivica Dacic, has said several times in public, normally, by praising his bill, each doing in his best interest, that the number of traffic accidents has dropped 20% since the law was applied. That's the way you talk some facts that are undeniable, but don't say everything that's causing a reduction in the number of car accidents. Would someone be in a position to tell us and confirm, for example, my information that traffic has fallen by 40% because gas station traffic, according to those who work there, and by the polls they've done, has fallen 35% due to low wages, because many people don't get paid, less fuel is bought, 35% has dropped fuel consumption? Is this information taken into account when it is said that 20% is a smaller number of car accidents? There's a budget that fuel consumption is 5% higher because it's driven by light for a certain number of vehicles per day. Did that law detail help reduce the number of accidents? We can't all attribute amendments to legal regulations and not allow them to be well-intentioned, and all the people sitting here are, because the largest number of us drivers, some of the more skilled some less skilled ones, who want to improve the bill in such a way that you can't challenge them with your own rules of procedure or the perfection of the law that we're talking about here and today. For all of us, it's a disaster news yesterday that two guys, driving from the direction of the Freedom Bridge to the center of town, at a speed of 150 km, driving at the last point, killed a 12-year-old boy who was crossing a crosswalk. Some who live there have been present and still cannot recover from that shock. That is why I will support, and you must consider when considering the amendment that treated similar matter that the LDP colleague defended, but which the SNS MPs also submitted to you. Don't be formalists, don't read Serbian the way you think it suits you because of the length of the debate, the fame of the promoter. Let's read the possibilities for submitting amendments, improving the law, which really has a special weight because it treats human life and that the only mistakes in this area, as well as in medicine, are seen with the naked eye and, not to repeat that morbid thing, are covered with the earth.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43347	Six minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 27, I am giving the following notice to the National Assembly in order to ensure the coordinated work of working bodies. The draft law amending and supplementing shall represent a number of members who, within the framework of the draft law, are sent to the Assembly and are exclusively to members who are being changed or to members whose basic text of the law is complemented may be submitted to the amendment. No other member who is not subject to the draft law of amendments and additions. Why are we talking about Article 27? Because such amendments are currently subject to discussion, my failure and my mistake, because the Rules of Procedure prescribes that the Legislative Committee has an obligation in considering amendments to amends which Members of Parliament submit to members of laws which are not in the text of the amendment and the supplement to reject. Since the Legislative Committee has failed to hold a session with a sufficient number of members to make decisions, I cannot decide on my own to make amendments, regardless of their submission beyond the rules of business, not to be the subject of debate, or later. Therefore, it is not a matter of any interpretation of the language, I repeat, the inability of the chairperson to fully apply a member who prescribes the obligations of the Legislative Committee to amend, which have been submitted because MPs have so resolved, out of ignorance or out of intent, that is not to be entered into, which cannot be the subject of the debate because they refer to members who are not in the text of the amendment and supplementation of the law or, as in this case, to the amendment and addition of the law. Sreto Peric has been reported, you will have the right to speak after him, to use either the time of the deputy president or the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Sreto Peric, the time is available for 53 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is one of the few laws, when I say the law, I mean the Traffic Safety Act, then amendments and additions to the law, which has no political component in it. I am absolutely sure that the legislators, like all the participants in the debate in principle, and even now when it comes to details, want to point out something which is an objective problem. I can't say that the billmaker wanted to collect some political points by proposing such a proposal, but I can safely suggest that some facts aren't illuminated enough. We all as individuals, and especially as representatives of citizens, must point to some situations that we personally had the opportunity to see in practice and no traffic without entities and objects. And the pedestrian uses a traffic station, so there's an object, and the vehicle is an object and the fact is that the vehicle itself is a dangerous thing. Sometimes when committing some crimes, it comes from the objective responsibility of participants in the process, which gives us the right not only to nominate what the Proposer has proposed but I expect them to involve themselves here, of course, in line with the business opportunities, and those who will vote in the voting day for this law, to point out some of the proposals' failures. No positive affirmation. One of the serious reasons for the accession of amendments and additions to this law was that there are not enough prisons for those who should be responsible for traffic violations to be punished. There's not enough room, so the state figured it would turn into fines. For what? By paying taxes on goods and services, every citizen has the right to ask the state where my money is spent? We want a more quality way to use these funds, and it's not primarily a lack of capacity in prisons here, so we're going to increase the fines now. Does it have any effect or no effect? And there is no positive affirmation of these legal regulations in the sense that for those participants in traffic who literally respect this law whenever possible, and I will show you that sometimes for a safe driver it is not possible, for those who whenever there are conditions for compliance with these legal regulations, so in the course of one year why did the Ministry not think about rewarding such ones? Then it would certainly be more of an effect than now, as we say, is less of a 20% of car accidents and everything that comes out of it. It's not just the tightened legal provisions that have led to it, it's also a series of other objective circumstances that have nothing to do with it. counterpart Jasmina Milosevic, it seems, has rightly shown herself to be a good member of the Transport and Connection Committee, but she did not intend to point out something that is an objective failure and says, who respects the law does not have to be afraid. Here, I literally respected the law and respected the limitations until the moment I fell a rock from a freighter's vehicle carrying waste material, and had not been protected by this material, it was not covered, although other traffic users indicated to me that traffic police control existed. In order to save both the vehicle and myself, I had to cross the vehicle on a broken line, but I couldn't at the time of the impediment to respect the speed limit and was only obliged to pay a speeding ticket. So, he had intent and as long as objectively it was possible he respected legal regulations, and at the moment when it was no longer possible I committed a violation. In these situations there will be very often others, not to respect, but for the reasons that everything is not done and there is no way to pass an ideally good law, it is quite clear and it is clear to everyone. But what we know from practice we must point out, although this time, Madam Chairman, may not be able to accept some of my suggestions, but I am not just sitting here for this day and not just for this law, but for this law in the next period of perspective. To finally propose to Mr Mrkonjic, when it comes to the registration of vehicles carrying out agricultural or economic activity, should be taken into account when registering that they have some benefits, which has not been the case so far. Vehicles used by beekeepers, vehicles for agricultural production must have some benefites, some benefits related to the registration itself, because in order to preserve that branch, which in direct connection with traffic, that branch of economic production or any other economic area, we must be active and responsible participants from the position of government, that simply you, who expect their country to meet them whenever possible, can count on that being objectively provided. What's going on with those criminal points? In order to know what the situation is, of course, not in our country, one of the traffic users, was a member of a more beautiful sex, she committed a violation. There's a hole in the driver's license if a pass is made, no penalty points are entered, and when a cop finds out whose daughter it is, he takes his driver's license again and writes, "This hole is not a hole." Let's make traffic signs that this law applies equally to everyone. I have to say that the police are fairly correct in implementing this law, but very often they are not able to comply with the conditions of the road, the conditions of the terrain and the legislator, or the Ministry of the Interior, I don't know who this bill of amendments and the additions of the Traffic Safety Act was all about, did not take into account what happened from the moment the law was passed, its application and until the time of the amendment and the addition of that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43349	Seven minutes and five seconds of MP time were used. National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43350	I use the time of authority and your attempt to disprove my answer doesn't make much sense to you, because when you say MPs don't have the right to submit an amendment to what is not the subject of the amendment and supplementation of the promoters, you're just confirming the fear of the authorities that laws are even spoken of. If you have a mechanism to refuse the proposed amendment, and to respond to the amendment, and to refuse both quality and good, and those who are members of the laws that are subject to amendment and supplement, I do not see that kind of rigidity for limiting and affecting what is called parliament in this legislative activity. However, we will consider under the new Rules of Procedure the possibility of someone interpreting in Serbian what the amendment and supplement proposal means and whether adding new members, or "a", "b", "c" and "d" members to an existing member, allows us or does not give us the right to improve some law. I have no intention of teaching anyone, but I can't stay here without you using your first qualification as a possibility of putting up with such a reaction, not knowing the MPs. It's an honor to you. I say we MPs have no evil intentions. On the contrary, the law is so important that, for our best purposes, we submit amendments, extensively interpreting the right for the amendment to be submitted for amendment and addition to the law. What I did not say yesterday, but you tasked me to say today about the discussion of the law on trade yesterday, whether it was the superficiality of the leadership of the Assembly or the Government, when, in the opinion of the amendments to the SNS parliamentary group, the Group of Forwards to Serbia, it was written that the amendment to Article 73 and 74 was rejected because they were not signed, and it is clear to all, and it is clear to all, that, as the Head of Parliament, you do not read the opinions of the Government that you are delivering and that such nonsense is not signed and that this is a very possible mistake in the government itself, but it is a fact that you, as the Head of Parliament, are not reading the opinions of the Government that you are correcting in time. Here, check it out, all I'm talking about is facts. I'm asking you, if we're going to discuss the Anti-Corruption Agency during the day, when will we be able to look at the government's opinion? Will we be able to work constructively, with knowledge or ignorance, with evil or good intentions, leave you to us, but give us a timely opportunity to get to know the laws and react to them in the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43351	Three minutes and 25 seconds of time have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. By re-applying Article 27, I provide all the necessary information. After information that the Legislative Committee did not hold a meeting where most of the members, the Rules of Procedure, were prescribed for decisions, I had the intention, which I consulted, that amendments that were not legally possible, by notifying the chairman, could not be discussed. No member of the Rules of Procedure shall prohibit the chairperson, either with a statement or with a description, from caring about which amendment, if the committee responsible has failed to carry out its business obligation, may or may not be subject to the debate. Considering that, without any guilt or responsibility, the reduced rights of MPs who have submitted amendments to such a kind would have been toned, I did not. If we listened carefully, I informed you it was about my responsibility. If we're talking about whether it's ignorance or intention, then I'm saying it because the subject matter of the amendment can be something in the law passed to the Assembly. If it is an amendment, then it is one member who has been submitted and you can submit an amendment to that one member who has been submitted in the draft law amending a law. If the proposal is an addition to a law, then you can submit an amendment to what is in the procedure in the Assembly, it is one member that has been added to a law. If the draft law is amending and supplementing, then you have at least two members in such a bill that you can submit amendments to. You cannot submit amendments to members of the law which are not subject to the draft law amending and supplementing the law. It is the right of the Messengers, and to interpret it; it is the right of the Messengers, and it is the right of the Messengers, and that he has purpose. As far as I'm concerned, telling you about my responsibility for the amendments currently in the procedure, I think it's the right of the MPs to, even if the amendment is not legally possible, be the subject of a search, or debate in particular. It remains a responsibility for an unsustainable meeting of the Legislative Committee, which has a business obligation to reject such amendments, so that they are not subject to discussion. The consultations on whether and how these amendments will be subject in the voting day will still take place and, behold, in advance, let me tell you clearly my position – I think they must be the subject of the vote, as much as that represents a legal dilemma, quite obvious as far as I'm concerned. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković has a word. Time at the disposal of authorised representatives is another five minutes and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43352	I really don't want this to grow into any controversy. With all due respect to you personally and as the current chairman, detached these two things, I would ask you that in a society where we are fighting for the strength of institutions, not a man, from the National Bank to the Assembly, you do not take this heavy burden on your own shoulders, in terms of responsibility for the way in which the amendments are discussed in this or any other case. Your amendment, when we discussed the Rules of Procedure, was that amendments were not at all the subject of discussion in the tide. It's the amendment of an MP who hasn't passed. Leave us with the right to interpret, conduct, and intentions, motives, attributes that are characterized by leaving for some esteric shows, interviews, etc. Let's go back here and discuss the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43353	The minutes and five seconds have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have accepted this amendment. Since the Legislative Committee has no position, the amendment has not become an integral part of the bill and is the subject of the debate. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43354	Thank you. I didn't answer to express my satisfaction that this, the one, the only, our amendment was accepted, but to proceed to this where my colleagues started. Okay, this amendment was accepted, but just what we accepted, that the government wasn't going to change, it was changing something else in that article. Now, fellow Milosevic, all of us, and the advances and radicals who have participated so far, do not dispute that this law is alive and that after six months it shows what solutions are good. Nobody slows it down. We don't attack the government what she said – now we would change what the government has found to bother her, that radar, which cannot be deleted, captures vehicles accompanied by Tadic's Cobra or Bija's vehicles, but in the distance? Look, they're official vehicles, they must be filing criminal charges. How can he stand it? If he can't handle it, he's breaking the law. Now he wants to have his hands off, the discretionary authority of the district units, among other things, it's an amendment to the law. All right, let's get this straight. But we saw something that needed to be fixed, which the government didn't see or didn't want to see. What's so controversial about that? After all, I'm not a lawyer, Mrs. Comic. The fact is that this Legislative Committee has not met. You may think our amendments are legally impossible, i.e. If they weren't legally possible, we could think they were. The congregation is sovereign. The highest legislative authority must have some kind of freedom to create laws. The government has proposed certain amendments to the law, MPs have proposed some other amendments to the law. There is no formal paper that our laws are legally impossible. So 250 opinions we can have on that. There's no such thing as a fact, if that fact doesn't exist, they're possible. That's why I'm proposing sanity with the government, Mr. Gristle. I don't know now that he's a formal lawmaker. Last time you defended, then Dacic came on shifts, but anyway, it's obviously in the family, in the SPS. Make a nice deal. Since our amendments are legally possible, because there is no Legislative Committee that says they are legally impossible, you have the freedom to propose accepting those amendments that you find appropriate, although formally, when you have proposed amendments to the law, taking into account only some of your partial and narrow interests, you have not looked at the width. It's a job for the MPs to look a little wider. We have proposed amendments and let us take advantage of that fact that the Legislative Committee did not have a quorum, so most of us have not declared our amendment legally impossible, that this fact is fortunate for someone who will eventually experience a car accident or therefore avoid a car accident. Make someone happy for the fact that there was no quorum on that Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43355	A minute and 30 seconds of authorized representative time have been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment adding a new Article 3a after Article 3a. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted the amendment. The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43356	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, i.e. My colleagues and I, in our best interest, and in order to improve this law, have submitted an amendment to which we have proposed after Article 3. Proposal to add a new Article 3a, so that after Article 191. The law adds Article 191a, which reads as follows: "It is mandatory to refer to a health check to determine the mental ability to drive a motor vehicle: 1) a driver who commits an infringement referred to in Article 330(1), point 4), 9), 10), 11) or 12); 2) a driver who is at least twice found to operate a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or intoxication over a period of less than one year; 3) a driver who has at least twice been denied driving a vehicle during a period of less than two years. The driver will be temporarily withdrawn from the driver’s driver’s licence until the inspection is carried out. The driver’s licence will be returned if the check-up indicates that the driver does not suffer from mental illness or residual mental development and that there is no behavioural disorder that makes him incapable of driving a motor vehicle, or motor vehicle of a given category. ''The Health Control Review to determine the mental health of drivers who deliberately commit the most serious traffic violations and drive under the influence of alcohol has proved to be a legitimate and effective means of protecting traffic safety and preventing the most serious accidents in many countries. Infringements for which the driver is proposed to be sent to the checkup are fully alcoholised driving, the maximum overruns of the permitted speeds, as well as repeated driving in an alcoholic state and severe violations. In all these cases it can be established to question the mental health of the driver and his medical ability to drive. If the driver manages a vehicle in a severe alcoholic state, with more than two alcohol spills, there is a high probability that the person who is an alcoholic or has another mental disorder, because a mentally healthy person will not allow himself to sit behind the wheel in that condition. Extreme excesses allowed are the most common cause of an accident with fatal consequences. Vehicles where they are located in the maximum speed overrun from Article 330. The laws have a kinetic energy that is three to 36 times higher than vehicles that drive at the speed allowed. The relative increase in kinetic energy also increases the road of stopping, the possibility of accidents and the consequences of accidents. High speed surpluses are not due to negligence, but are a deliberate and conscious threat both to their own and to other people's safety, so that a fundamental question of the mental health of such drivers is raised. Practice has shown that this type of driver continues to commit violations despite the criminal charges and penalties filed, even after previous accidents, so their only effective solution is to permanently remove them from traffic. Examples of tragic accidents caused by drivers who were not affected by the penalty were countless. I'm going to name one on this occasion. Ten years ago, there was an accident in Belgrade's Terrazian Tunnel where three people lost their lives, and more people were injured with lasting consequences. The crash caused a driver who was driving at a speed of 140km per hour, instead of 50, who had already been subject to 14 misdemeanors in a short period. If it had been removed from traffic in a timely manner, this accident would not have happened. However, according to available data, the driver continues to drive, and the trial is not completed even though it has been 10 years. The introduction of a psychiatric review of the most severe offenders and returnees has produced excellent results in many countries, so I propose the adoption of this amendment. The amendment also proposed temporary withdrawal of permits on the spot for such offenders.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43357	Two minutes and 30 seconds used by the MP's group. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43358	Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will repeat something I said as an authorised representative in the principle debate. During the adoption of this law, as is now the case when amending and supplementing this law, perhaps the most qualitative discussions and arguments in this assembly are heard. Whether the minister accepts this amendment or not will I leave it to him for assessment. The current article 191 allows to apply to a large extent what Mrs Budimirovic was talking about and made very, very good arguments in her discussion. I've been dealing with, in one way or another, road safety issues and I'm going to tell you something that's out of my immediate surroundings or neighborhood, and it's about a violent drive and my personal pawnage when we've passed a basic law to expand the circle of possibilities, that is, to lead what exists under a violent ride, not just under these two conditions. In Kragujevac, Queen Mary's Boulevard, it's something that's going to be interesting for the police to think that every night it's going to be on the clock, so from the big park to Erdoglija, the speed limit is 50 per hour. Every night, all night long, motorcycles drive at speeds not below 120, 150 or 200 an hour. He's driving to the back. The Kragujevac police are doing their job correctly and I think, probably, and according to reports, the security situation in Kragujevac is much higher and traffic police are doing their job correctly. It's just amazing that citizens and I, as MPs, are asking why the government doesn't do something about it. They can't expect anyone else to draw attention to such a problem. There is a main street nearby, a promenade, a park, full of children in the evening, lots of walkers, lots of puppies, enough one dog to take off and to have a tragedy that no one wants. It is true what counterpart Budimirovic said. I also had a chance to talk to the security lawyers in highly developed countries at professional seminars. When someone where there is a slow traffic zone or a traffic protection zone, and if the speed limit is 30 or 40 kilometers per hour, driving at a speed of 200 kilometers per hour, the question is whether he is mentally healthy, calculating, and necessarily leads to controlled psychiatric examinations. Then we get to the other one. If, in a controlled psychiatric examination, the competent doctor or commission confirms that he is mentally healthy, and later on, an unsatisfactory event, i.e. the one who has received confirmation that he is mentally stable, that he can participate in traffic, etc., then there will be a safe and responsible doctor. We must finally close that circle of responsibility for everything that's going on and nobody wants it to happen. In my conversation with psychiatrists, I asked what it is that people say that they drive 200 km/h or 250 km/h at a speed limit of 30 km/h, while asking a question, the fact is that they have no awareness of jeopardizing the safety of pedestrians, children and other traffic users, why they don't care about personal safety. You know what the answer is? The answer is that these are latent suicides, that they have mental disorders, that they certainly don't have a relationship to life like a mentally normal and stable person, and that they don't care at all about their lives, because of the fact that they usually live in broken families, in families where they grew up under a torture or didn't have parental love, etc. All of this is later manifested in some mature age, and they want to eventually, and if something bad happens to them, they themselves suffer, thus punishing parents for unprepared parental love and normal psychological and physical development. Let's say, and that's the tragedy of a society and that's not the problem that's going to solve this law, that's the problem of the whole society. In practice, we need to do everything we can to really respond, here is an existing article191. leaves the possibility that in a much larger number of cases, than it is now in practice, people who act this way are being followed and referred to extraordinary medical examinations. What would be interesting, which is that in a year or two, when we talk again about the Traffic Safety Act or follow up on its application analysis, let's see how many people like this remain temporarily or permanently without a driver's license. It's one of, believe me, the key conditions that, in addition to everything else that's been taken so far, will affect the reduction of the number of traffic accidents. If you look at these statistical indicators that are all the causes of car accidents, you'll see that maybe 98 or 99 percent is a human factor. It is true that it is necessary for traffic to meet certain conditions, vehicles of certain standards, technical correctness and everything else. But the human factor is convincingly dominant, and in a human factor, it is certain that people who have this attitude to traffic, who are not, above all, not allowed to get a traffic permit, and when they have already got it, are being brazen, violent, and don't care about their own or other lives. It is certain that such people deserve sanctions, that they must be referred to emergency medical examinations, that their license must be withdrawn and that they must be excluded from traffic. I'm asking you to count this discussion on me at the time of the authorized representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43359	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of the authorized representative's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, in addition to the rights of MPs and roles, competences and opportunities to submit an amendment, which is a procedure and in what way and in what conditions, I think that MPs have the right to receive a reply from whoever defends the laws or who is a representative of the Government on that agenda. Since we have a practice here to discuss between ourselves, and if we don't have the opinion of an authorised representative of the government, I think that the right should be a little bit more exorcised, so that this point and this law will gain weight, or the possibility, however you want, to gain weight, and to conflict the opinions that we and the Ministry have, so that they know who's right. This is how we have a version just to spend the time of the parliamentary group, to talk to empty citizens, and not to have any results in practice or in application of the law itself or any other sublegal acts. What is related to this amendment in Article 4 is the preamble relating to time limits. Therefore, I have proposed, on behalf of the SRS, the amendment and additions of Article 4 or Article 234(1), to be changed and it is said that when operating a freight vehicle or a set of vehicles the maximum mass of which is more than three and a half thousand kilograms or a bus driver shall not be operated for more than nine hours, or no more than two times a week for ten hours. What the Government has proposed is this – when it manages a freight vehicle or a set of vehicles whose maximum mass is more than three and a half thousand kilograms or by bus, the driver must not have a daily driving time for more than nine hours, or at least twice a week for ten hours. Here we are now coming to the question of the play of words, the essential meaning of every sentence, and the role of the committee that brought agreement whether or not this amendment should be accepted. Why do I say that? Because the argument states that the Government does not accept this amendment for the reason that the time of driving is defined as the time between two vacations and must not relate to the notion of calendar day. If the government says -- a day and we say -- 24 hours, no matter who they are, then the government is bound to a calendar day, not us. If we say it shouldn't stand a week, it should stand a week, so that's the point of the calendar day binding, which is the weekday from Monday to Monday or 24 hours, whether it's daily, whether it's 24 hours from 00.00 to 00.00 or from 12:00 to 12:00. So this is proof, but this is excellent evidence that essentially improves the accuracy of the law, which defines what can be done within 24 hours, unrelated to who they are, and we're just getting the opposite answer that we can't tie ourselves to a calendar day that we haven't even done. This only adds to the fact that someone has not even read our amendments in the way they were supposed to read or read speedily, given an answer that was essentially contrary to the bill. So, if we take into account and what reasonable deadlines are, how can we affect the amendment and the addition of a law, and we will discuss it according to the next amendment, because the answer to the next amendment is the right answer that we need for today's debate, then let us also have the right to an MP to get an answer as to why our amendment is not accepted when the explanation that our amendment corresponds to is given. It is the only essence of this debate, or we will go by that old practice that MPs are discussing some law, and that an authorised representative is advertised at the end when the MP is unable to replicate or give an answer whether the authorised representative is right or not. If you want to have a serious debate about this, we need to have a dialogue, we need to have the opposite opinions, and we need to have the result. This way we have no result, nothing, except -- the board has rejected the amendment, the government has rejected the amendment, without an explanation that is not at all related to the submission of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43361	Two minutes and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Nikola Savic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act by amending Article 244(1) of the basic law. Here, I'll read what I wrote in the amendment, to make it clearer. "The driver must use a new daily vacation within 24 hours of the end of the previous vacation, or part of the rest within 30 hours if the driver is part of a multi-member crew that counts more than two members." Now let me explain why I submitted this amendment. Drivers who are part of a multi-member crew numbering more than two members, I gave it here in the amendment, have much more opportunities to rest than it is when the driver is alone in the vehicle or when it comes to the two-member crew, and they should use their vacation when they consider it most necessary for their organism. They must also consider the need to rest other crew members. We have one situation where there's a driver in the vehicle, another situation when there's two drivers in the vehicle, a third situation when there's three drivers. When there are three drivers, then they have much greater opportunities to create a way to rest, because always present a colleague in a vehicle can jump in when it responds to any of them. The government has not accepted this amendment and I am once again surprised by the government's argument. I wonder, as my colleague Milan Avramovic said a little bit, if the government's representatives were even considering and watching these amendments. Let's see what the government says about not accepting the amendment. It says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that part of the holiday is unknown in the labour law, and it is in itself imprecise and therefore could not have legal consequences on drivers. Furthermore, according to international standards, the multi-member crew makes up at least two members. I wonder here, say, is lunch break part of the vacation? Is the break we're taking here during the 14 to 15-hour session part of our vacation? Is part of the vacation with those people, those workers who work twice? Does some law, which you are referring to on labour law, oblige them to spend all their time sleeping or sleeping while one of them is sitting or using it in the way that suits them most? Just one more thing about this amendment, to see how the government is not considering and taking seriously what the MPs are doing. Here, I have given in my amendment – if the driver is part of a multi-member crew that counts more than two members, and you say in your explanation – in addition, according to international standards, the multi-member crew makes up at least two members. Now tell me what is the difference between terms – at least two members and more than two members? It is logical that, in both cases, it is a multi-member crew, by wanting this amendment better to define that practically, if it is a multi-member crew of two members, it remains a solution that you foresee in the law, but when it comes to a crew of more than two members, which is most often a crew of three members, then to accept this solution that I have made in the amendment. Maybe people who don't do traffic don't have enough insight and don't have a checkup, maybe somebody now wonders where it is and who's a multi-member crew of two, come on with two and somehow, but more than two members. Do you know, on large, or long international lines, that it is mandatory to have crews of three members? For example, we have a situation that very often on our roads we meet buses from other countries, primarily from Bulgaria, for example from a Black Sea town in Bulgaria, seasonal workers go even to the farthest southern parts of Spain or Portugal to do seasonal jobs in the harvesting of Mandarins, oranges, etc. And on these lines is a mandatory crew of three members. Indeed, here I appeal once again to the present minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to consider this amendment, because I really believe that the amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43363	Four minutes have been used by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport and Communications Committee, submitted an amendment to Article 5. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment adding a new Article 5a after Article 5a. Does anyone want a word? MP Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43364	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, respected citizens, on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Before that, I would say that we understand that the ruling majority has the need to criticise our efforts to point out many of the bad things that have been incorporated into the laws that this assembly makes and do not want us to allow business opportunities, when certain members of the law that have almost been passed in this assembly are changing, on the grounds that many mistakes have been seen in practice, that we as an opposition point to some other members of this law which are not sufficiently or well defined and which have in practice proved to be a bad solution. After Article 5. The proposal shall be added to Article 5a by adding, in the basic text of the law after Article 284a, Article 284a, which reads as follows: ''The driver who is found in the conduct of the infringements referred to in Article 330(1), point 9), 10), 11) or 12) will temporarily withdraw the licence and submit the report to the competent police authority in whose territory the driver has residence. The driver in Item 1 will issue a confirmation that the driver can operate only on the route from the scene of the offence to the place of residence, in a time that cannot be less than eight hours or more than 24 hours. The permit will be returned after the infringement has been completed, and the period of temporary withdrawal of the licence will be included at the time of the protection measure. ''This amendment proposes temporary withdrawal of the licence on the spot to drivers found in extreme overruns of the permitted speed. Extreme excesses allow speeds are the most common cause of fatal accident. Vehicles where they are located in the highest speed exceeding the speed specified in Article 330 of the Law shall have a kinetic energy which is three to 36 times higher than vehicles which drive at the speed allowed. The relative increase in kinetic energy also increases the road of stopping, the possibility of accidents and the consequences of accidents. Large overspeeds are not due to carelessness but are a deliberate and conscious threat to their own and others' safety. Practice has shown that this type of driver continues to commit violations despite the criminal charges and penalties filed, even after previous accidents, so the withdrawal of the license on the scene is justified and can effectively affect traffic safety. Facing the possibility that their license may be taken away on the spot and the inability to continue the journey is a serious reason for drivers to refrain from dangerous driving. At the same time, the temporary withdrawal of the permit until the end of the infringement procedure prevents the avoidance of the trial by not making calls, changing the address and other ways in which such infringements are very prone. For example, you can see, especially on Belgrade streets, frequent cases of fathers' sons having frequent races affecting accidents with very tragic consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43365	Two minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a direct example of how we don't have the opportunity to change something proposed as an amendment to some bill. I will now try to explain to you how the hands of the MP are bound to change what is bad for the better. My colleague Nemanja Saric has submitted an amendment relating to Article 6(1) and his amendment has mainly focused on the deadline defined by this article: the departure of vehicles less than three minutes. He says this: 'If a police officer or a competent inspection authority in traffic control through video surveillance or a photo record finds that the vehicle is parked or stopped against the provisions of this law, it will make a solution in electronic form to order the removal of the vehicle within a time limit that cannot be shorter than five minutes. The decision in electronic form requiring the removal of the vehicle shall be delivered by electronic means by means of an electronic means of removing the vehicle and setting up a notice of a solution made in electronic form at a visible location of the vehicle, which shall inform the driver that the vehicle will be removed on the basis of that solution. After a notice has been made at the vehicle’s visible location, it shall not be taken away within a period shorter than five minutes. ''That was suggested by my colleague Nemanja Sarovic. What does the law say? He says like this: 'If a police officer or a competent inspection authority in traffic control through video surveillance or a photo recording finds that the vehicle is parked or stopped against the provisions of this law, it will make a solution in electronic form to order the removal of the vehicle within a time limit that cannot be shorter than three minutes. '"I ask the Ministry's representatives, if in three minutes you turn on all four blinkers and manage to get something out of the car, get in the house and get out, you have a vehicle left in August and you can move on. If in three minutes and two seconds you don't get there, you get a ticket, a parking service takes you a vehicle, which costs about eight or nine thousand dinars, and you pay the fine, you get a penalty, and you get a budget kick. What is the essence of this amendment? The point is to make the conditions. There's not enough parking space. That parking lot and garages that have pepper cost. There is no way to book traffic in the city of Belgrade because it costs a lot, and you have nowhere to park. Now it's your fault that you're living in the city center and then you're the one who's going to get one of these tickets, neither guilty nor due, because the parking service took him a vehicle because the official face of the MUP was responding within three minutes from the moment you parked. If we take the information that the same jurisdiction has the municipal police, which will be in office very soon, if the current jurisdiction has a municipal inspector of every local self-government or municipality unit in Belgrade, if the same jurisdiction has the official face of the MUP that works in the parking service, where do people park and what time-limit? Where do you get a chance to go home, get your wallet and come back? I'll give you my personal example. I am the victim of such laws and legalization of the behavior of parking services, whose officials live more than richly, because these charges are both too high and expensive. The basic budgeting and modus of the Belgrade City Assembly is the Parking Service. Now you're giving them the legitimacy of these laws so that for more than three minutes you can't stop anywhere. Now tell me, if any official face is ready to wait three minutes after the stopwatch that only he has, why would he be willing to wait a minute? The moment he sees a misdemeanor, he'll write a report and call the parking service to take the vehicle away. That's what happens when you stand in a place reserved for another person, who's paid pretty well, and that's what happens when you do the wrong parking or you have a parking ban, and you're parked because you don't have anywhere to go. You can't go into the C market, you can't go into the bank, you can't enter the mail, you can't park properly, because there's nowhere to stop, there's not enough garages and there's an expensive number. What is essentially proposed by this law? Five minutes isn't enough. I was taken away by a vehicle with all the lights on and the engine. By the time I found the vehicle, well, I had a problem after I filled the battery and started it from the parking lot where the parking service took the car without talking about where he took it, because the existing parking lot that was in charge of that territory was packed. Now you figure out how much money parking and police are taking together from the citizens of Belgrade because they have nowhere to park, and you haven't made them terms? I set a personal example, not because I respected the legal code, paid the fine, and took over the vehicle, but because it's everyday. And here we have a problem, in front of the National Assembly, when we don't have room to park, we have to go to the garage, which is full. So what do we do? So, we don't have the conditions for what you're predicting - legalizing the robbery of citizens through a parking service, so that within three minutes an official can take a vehicle or write a fine that is eight-nine thousand dinars. The points of the driver and not to talk. So if the point is that we don't use motor vehicles at all, that should be said openly. If the point is that we're robbing the people, filling the budget for those who run the parking service, then that's what we should say openly. If the point is to change the epochal European fluid in two minutes, because instead of three, we're going to wait five or five and 15, then why is this amendment rejected, the question is asked? I'll read to you, Mrs. Comic, why this amendment was rejected and how our hands are tied that we react. It is said this, since this amendment applies to Article 296(3) and the proposal is amended and paragraph 3 is complemented by Article 1(1) and (2), it is stated in the explanation that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why, in the event of the adoption of the same provision, Article 2(2) and (3) of Article 296. They found the law in college. St. 1st and 2nd are not a proposal to amend and supplement. Our amendment coincides with something that is not an amendment to the proposal, and we automatically get the answer that no amendment has been accepted. Now let me ask you -- how can we change this article, if it's going down with something that's not on the agenda, and we can't submit an amendment to something that's not on the agenda? How do we change this member, not as a parliamentary group, but as a folk MP, if we can't write something that's not on the agenda, and when we write about what it is, it says it's against what's not on the agenda? Who's going to change this now and in what way? Furthermore, it is said: "The time limit for removing the vehicle provided for in item 2 (not on the agenda) cannot be shorter than three minutes, while in the event of the adoption of the proposed amendment, the deadline for the same action would be defined for a period of five minutes, which is unacceptable. "Which of the representatives of the Ministry or of the Government will explain to me why it is unacceptable that instead of three minutes it stands five? What is the role of Parking Services and Police to change and secure traffic security in any street in which the state and city did not provide parking space? So this looks like just a collection of money, this doesn't even look like a reasonable deadline for five minutes, but we tried to change it, and this looks like only one thing, and that's filling the budget. When you don't know how to charge your budget, then put your hand in every citizen's wallet or every driver or every one that delivers goods in a store that has no place to stop. If he doesn't unload the goods within three minutes, he'll get a fine and a penalty. That is the basic problem of this law, the basic problem of individuals who did not want to read these amendments and the basic problem of those who did not want to meet the driver, but the financial condition of their own ministry. That's why I think you have time to accept this amendment and agree with me that this argument is more than ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43367	Eight minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The word of the Messenger of the people is Nikola Savic, and the messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43368	Here is something to say about this amendment by my colleague Nemanje Sarovic, although counterpart Milan Avramovic has excellently elaborated it in front of the government representatives and the MPs. So, the essence of the amendment submitted by Nemanja Sarovic is that it is noted that the basic objective in the law is not to ensure smooth traffic management, but rather to collect as many penalties as possible. Although there are amendments and additions to this law, where only a few members are fundamentally changed, those other members, the position 1 is being moved to position 2. etc., these are already changes of technical nature, the SRS has submitted a number of amendments with one single idea – to correct this law as far as possible and if possible. Unfortunately, we have seen here that the government has not taken that into account, has not accepted any amendments to the SRS, although all the arguments that have gone along with the amendments have been made, so I think the chance to fix this law as much as possible has been missed. That's why I believe that at the most recent time, changes and additions of this law will be made due to this government's relationship to amendments submitted by the MPs, and as far as I've heard and I have some knowledge that something like this has already been announced, someone here has mentioned maybe since September, I don't know if it will be since September, but it's likely that by the new year they'll have to change and supplement this law again. We saw, and colleague Sreto Peric said it nicely, this is one of the few laws that does not have a political component in it, so any amendment submitted by any MP should have been considered correctly. As has already been said here, it seems that the essence of these amendments and the addition of the law is simply to increase penalties, introduce new impositions, increase old ones, because it is obvious that the budget is not being filled in the intended way. Once again, the easiest thing to do is hit the driver's pocket, because the driver has nowhere to go when a militiaman stops him on the road, he has to pay his due. Of course, if he doesn't have it on him, he'll get to his home address and there's no way to avoid it anymore. In addition to this fact, the fact that you calculated precisely in the light of this law that in the first five months of 2010, only one item in this law, Serbia's budget lost the amount of 432,120.000 dinars of unpaid fines currently provided for in this law. I don't know who was so precise, because we know that this government is not so capable that it analyzes and predicts the situation in detail, because if it were, it would certainly do something to start the production process and make Serbia's unemployment smaller. Again, I have to say, when you look at this, the range of penalties is foreseen for some things from 100,000 to 120,000, for some 100,000 to 150,000, and when you analyze this statistics, you probably did this statistics based on the number of violations that were committed for the first five months, I don't doubt it, but when it is analysed, then you can conclude one thing that needs to be worried, which is that this amount came from the maximum penalties that the law provides. Does someone knowingly suggest to the judges that they must impose maximum penalties? However, you can say as much punishment as you want, it is known that the desired effects, not only in this traffic law but in all areas, can never be achieved only by penalties and criminal policies, but in combination with that, some other means must go. That is why I am not surprised that, on the basis of the fines that you are prescribing this law, a large number of Serbian citizens prefer to maintain a prison sentence rather than pay so many fines. Of course, no one is happy to go to jail, but it's simply impossible to pay the fine, and the only thing he has left is to serve his sentence, because it might be better for someone to lie down for 15, 20, 30 or 45 days in prison than to pay an amount of 150,000 dinars. Who is this average citizen of Serbia who today can impose a fine of 150,000 dinars? He'll just go to jail. This is not about those rare, exceptional cases that fall under that term of violent driving, it's about ordinary citizens of Serbia. No matter what law this is about, which you brought in a year ago, whose application began half a year ago, is still a dead letter on paper, until practically certain sublegal acts are passed as accompanying and composing parts of this law. I'm going to take this opportunity, when I've already taken my word for it, to say something about these sublaws, that is, the rules that need to be followed by this law. According to some knowledge, there are about 40 of these rules and so when they are all passed, then the essence and meaning of the law will be complete and the law will give its full meaning. I have to admit that the competent ministry is working on some of these regulations, it seems to me that about ten days ago some of them were brought and published in the Official Messenger, but that's only one small number of them because, as I said, there are about 40 of them here. I'm going to say something about the rules and those rules or, more specifically, about the draft rules relating primarily to driving training and driving training. We all know that driver training is one of the first steps for active traffic participation. Here, I'll just mention some rules from that area. For example, a rule on conditions that must be met by a company, i.e. a branch of a company or a secondary vocational school that conducts the training of a candidate for a driver, then a Regulation on the theoretical and practical training of candidates for drivers, and then a Regulation on the organisation, implementation, content and method of laying down a driving test, management and time-limits for keeping track of the driver’s test records, the conditions on which the test is to be completed, the Content Regulation, the way in which the driver’s records are kept and the time-limits are kept in the field of training of candidates for drivers. So on these rules, according to the knowledge that I have, I do, but again what I had the chance to see, and you had the opportunity to hear the opinion of a car school, and here in this sense it's done superficially, so the essence is similar to that of basic law. These regulations show certain mistrust in the driving training process itself, especially with regard to auto-schools, especially when it comes to carrying out and conducting the driving test itself. Furthermore, auto-schools are imposed on certain financial and personnel obligations, which are not in the most direct way related to their own performance and which represent a great imposition on them and is simply one of the things that perhaps many auto-schools will shut down. So I think that some things should be delayed for a while when making these regulations, such as the introduction of "B" vehicle tachographs, which are predicted. I don't think there are any real conditions to be implemented here with us yet, I think you should act as in the case of introducing an ABS brake system, so that the introduction of tachographs is delayed for a certain period of time. This team before, say, tachograph devices on vehicles "B" categories are not foreseen in any of the neighbouring countries or in any of the countries in our wider environment. It is not possible to install a tachograph device on a vehicle purchased on a lease, because if a tachograph device is installed on such a vehicle a guarantee is lost, and we know that the largest number of auto-schools of their vehicles as basic means are purchased on the lease. Speaking of these vehicles as basic means, you still don't know what conditions the driver's training vehicles must meet. First of all, I'm thinking about vehicles for training "C" and higher categories, whether it's gonna be a 3.5-tonne truck, 5-tonnes, 7-tonnes, or I don't know how many, and then as far as driving training vehicles are concerned, as the basic means of many auto-schools, people can't plan to get these vehicles, because they simply don't know the conditions that will be prescribed by these rules. That is why I urge government representatives to bring in at least these regulations as soon as possible so that the driving training process for auto-schools can take place uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43369	The mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been fully used, and the parliamentary group has 42 minutes and 40 seconds to go. MP Mirko Chikiriz has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43370	For the sake of the public, because of the correctness of the discussion which seems correct to me and which is now receiving the sounds of politics, I will say that the proposed change in attitude 3 has not been made to fill the budget, to punish drivers etc. One question is, but a separate question, independent of this law, what conditions in the city environments, first of all, are parking drivers, whether parking is enough, whether there are enough public garages built, etc., but all of this depends on something else. First of all, from the economic power of the country, did we have communism, did we wage wars that we didn't need, so we spent our money in advance, etc. This is about something else. If we look at an entire member, we'll see, first of all, that the driver cannot stop or park in places where it is explicitly forbidden. Stopping or parking in places where this is forbidden can lead to a situation where an ambulance cannot reach a person who, for example, had a heart attack, that a fire vehicle cannot reach the apartment building on the ground floor, in which a fire broke out, and in those five minutes not only could burn down that apartment, but it could burn down half the building. There are countless kinds of living conditions and situations that can lead to major and irreparable adverse consequences due to the lack of respect for the laws of the driver. Secondly, if you look at an entire member of the law, you'll see that first a police officer warns the driver to remove an improperly stopped or parked vehicle, then a solution is made. If the driver shows up during the process of removing the vehicle, then he gives up removing the vehicle, but all costs incurred by that time will go to the driver's burden, because he acted against the law. Therefore, I would ask all of my distinguished colleagues to hold a discussion, which indeed went in a very correct tone and, I think, in the common interest to improve traffic safety on the roads, not to introduce the sounds of politics, because these noises were to a lesser extent, and when we passed the law, from the qualification that this is police law, that it would not contribute to the reduction of the number of traffic accidents, etc. Of course, six months of application of this law has denied all of this and therefore I believe that this amendment should be rejected. Hv
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43371	Two minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, and then by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is something that we all agree on, and we are all on the side of improving the conditions that will create traffic security, that it may be at one envious level, at EU level, but all the countries that have raised this area to a very high level. There is no one objectively against it in this room, but the roads we believe should go to the level of traffic security in this sense and at that level are clearly different. I don't think there's been so many political sounds in this discussion today. We regret that this law does not defend the promoters, but you who belong to the congregation’s majority. And objectively, if it weren't for Mr. Mirko Chikiriz and Mrs. Milosevic, the question is, would there be any debate here today, dialogue, or controversy? We don't think anything's wrong if there's controversy because from the polemics and hopefully, there's going to be some quality. The government's relationship with the amendments is not such an impression. We believe there was room to be accepted here, but we heard from different sides that it wasn't the case when this law was, of course, not wanting to open a discussion with anyone here. Mrs. Milosevic just said something that I would rely on and look back on. She said that the amendments to the law were supposed to come out of an empire. Now, when the Empire is, that is, about the practice of applying this law, which we adopted a year ago, the amendments and additions to this law, we are convinced that they were implying and that much more was expected than what we have here today in front of us MPs. I will be free to say something that is the experience of the people I spoke to before or during the debate, that is, during this congregation. Changes and additions to this law have been inspired mainly about one thing, which is the fact that in Serbia, at the moment, transit tourism is currently ongoing and that a large number of tourists from transit, especially from Turkey, are passing through Serbia. According to some of our findings by the Serbian Radical Party, you will not blame me on my freedom to say, these changes and additions as if they were written in the Turkish Embassy, not in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will also tell you why, Mr. Chikiriz, and you, of course, and all fellow MPs, because we are all witnesses to what is happening on the roads today in Serbia. At least I'm a witness because every week I go 700km to the longest road in Serbia. Indeed, things are unpleasant, and these changes and discussions in principle mainly revolved over it, about punishment, about prison, who will be able to pay, who won't be able to pay and what will and in what direction it is going to happen. Our police have been going through a very unpleasant period for the past month and we believe in the next month. And I'm not saying that there are not among our officers those who are arrogant and who are not abused by this Law on the security of traffic and the amended one, which you will adopt, and even some other laws that regulate their work, but to a large extent have huge problems, and even become victims of such things. Unfortunately, some embassies respond in a very incorrect, unpleasant and unprincipled manner, and our services are arranged according to their wishes. We believe that this has led to some changes in this law, so that should be said, with respect for all other needs imposed through the application of the law. Then when you hear what the waist says when it comes to this law, this law in its application has experienced not complete but great fiasco. We've been listening here from Mr. Dacic to data and statistics suggesting a reduction in the number of victims, accidents, damages, etc. And it really is for respect, it's okay, but those positive steps in advance only happened by applying the law in one segment, in a segment of rigorous punishment and police action. The question arises as far as it comes with the application of the rest, and what it certainly implies, and it is necessary to implement it in the context of traffic safety. You have a story here, you get the impression that traffic security has come down to participation, work and functioning of the MUP, and it really isn't. Mrs. Milosevic mentioned earlier, I think, and education, I think you said something about child education, etc. How much did whoever wrote the basic version of this law, and now these changes, consider, for example, the opinion and attitude of professional organisations, say, the community of auto-schools. They are therefore dissatisfied, dissatisfied with the process of adopting the basic law and are now showing some dissatisfaction, and we cannot dispute their adequateness by uniting 600 auto-schools. Their views and proposals regarding driver training, which is essentially preventive action in the context of traffic safety, are not to the greatest extent taken into account. On the other hand, a few days ago on state television, you had the opportunity to listen to people who were representatives of the Institute of Traffic Security, who said openly, cannot remember the name of the gentleman who spoke on behalf of the Institute, openly said they had interrupted any co-operation with the government regarding the Traffic Safety Act. Why? Because their demands and attitudes regarding the view, attitude and opinion on the security of traffic and the application of this law, its implementation, and its minimum are not respected. What's this about? They complain that the rules that touch their profession have not been brought here for a year. What was the problem with the government doing that? It's objectively nothing, but then something happens in a month and we get into changes and additions to the law. On the other hand, we just spoke to the Traffic Safety Agency and it's said when it works. What was the issue with the Traffic Safety Agency operating so far? Who was the obstruction there? Who was in the way? Who's the problem? It's objectively no one. Mrs. Milosevic said one thing about predictability. Unpredictability in this area is a great luxury and we all know it well, and we agree, and we agree that it can't be fulfilled in 100%, but such a luxury that was objectively present in the making of this law I don't think we could afford it. We don't care about the EU or I don't know which country, this is something that needs to regulate the security of traffic in our country and some things we really shouldn't argue about, but we have to call them the right name, characterise them as they are and refer them to the right address, and these are the legislators of this law. All that is happening in this Assembly and discussing, it is obvious that the government is gone, and it essentially says how interested they were in these changes, how comprehensive they are when it comes to this law and how much these changes and additions will take effect in the period ahead of us. I'm convinced they're just changing and supplementing this law or, God forbid, writing, why not, some other law, a debate on the whole new law. I think it's all going dirty and that responsibility falls on the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43373	It's been used for eight minutes and 25 seconds. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chikiriz, for the sake of the public, I must read the whole article. "If a police officer or a competent inspection body in traffic control through video surveillance or photo recording determines that the vehicle is parked or stopped against the provisions of this law, it will make a solution in electronic form, which will order the removal of the vehicle within a period that cannot be less than three minutes", the whole text goes on. "A solution in electronic form requiring the removal of the vehicle shall be delivered by electronic means by means of a vehicle removal (so-called Parking Service) and which shall give notice of a solution made in electronic form to the visible location of the vehicle, which shall inform the driver that the vehicle will be removed on the basis of that solution", in translation – within three minutes. Since you mentioned the aspect of every normal citizen who would be disturbed when coming to the Emergency Center by a vehicle or if it were to happen, God forbid, a fire would happen in three and five minutes, I'm asking an open question – if it's a video surveillance and photo documentation, which means it's not an official person who sets an electronic form of punishment on the spot, but in some office where monitors or devices are sitting, whether someone's moving or not parked, then we can conclude that it's not about what you're talking about. Essentially, if you enter the Emergency Center, you have private security at the Emergency Center. If a fire occurs, it is logical that video surveillance cannot determine any vehicle that has been parked may be inappropriately in accordance with the law or perhaps you cannot write a punishment to the person in relation to the number of plates if the person is not present. How can you commit someone to own a vehicle that's wrongly parked, and stick a fine or give an e-mail address to a person who's in charge of removing a vehicle, which is a parking service, so we don't have to politicize this member. I listed the role of Parking Services, which only has the task of carrying vehicles along with the assistance of the MUP-A, then how do we define who's responsible for illegal parking. If we're talking about electronic punishment, electronic punishment and abuse of whether the e-mail will arrive within three minutes, to remove the vehicle at the same time, that means that the vehicle that removes the improperly parked vehicle must be on site at any moment, which is practically inexecutible. When you report a vehicle to interfere with your property, by the time the Parking Service arrives, it'll be at least half an hour, not three minutes. It's not about the hospital right now, or the fire, or I don't know what it's about. It's about the electronic charge. We have today's electronic charge situation to stand camera with a sensor above the yellow tape. Whoever goes through the yellow tape, the camera records the license plate number and sends a fine by the plate number. He doesn't send it to the driver. A driver can also be an authorized face and no. He could be a relative on the first line, the second line, never mind, mate, friend, it doesn't matter. Essentially, an electronic charge within three minutes cannot be achieved in practice, not even for five, as we have suggested, were properly parked or not, because it is an electronic charge. You say we have a problem with the hospital, you haven't read the whole article. This is about Article 196(3). That's why I said we can't discuss the attitudes of 1 and 2, to which you refer your story because it's not the subject of an amendment to this law. That's what I said because our hands are tied. We can't discuss the law in particular, how can we change this article if it isn't a proposal to amend and supplement? So, first of all, I'm not asking the question of the role of Parking Services, the possibility, the price of compensation, the electronic charge. Will it come true or not, will it go the way of judgment whether or not it is realized and how it will be implemented? That's why we're based on budgeting. The budgeting is tasked with making the wrong and improper parking parks pay him the fine, but by electronic means in three minutes, it's inconclusive. Then you'll have a situation where you have a camera every three meters, like on a Greek highway, so you can determine who's guilty or who to write a ticket to or if you have more employees at the Parking Service, for example, only in the city of Belgrade, than in any other company or public institution, which is practically inconclusive. I also need to remind you of the jurisdiction of the municipal inspector of every municipality, who is in charge of standing outside the embassy where the embassy seats are reserved. If you park, he will do his duty within three minutes, as long as he needs to write a record, a fine on the wiper and thus performs his official duty, but the vehicle does not remove. So he could write a ticket, but the vehicle couldn't remove it until the vehicle arrived to take it away. So what you're suggesting is that it's hair with what or what you're trying to do, at least with the practice that's in place. Let's say, "Parking Service," a public company of every municipality, has its own plan and programme. In Belgrade, the "Parking Service", a public company, says -- it is planned for next year to achieve revenue sources after carrying out improperly parked vehicles so many and so many millions of dinars. It's as if they know in advance how many improperly parked vehicles there will be. That's why I said that you're giving this member the legitimacy of the Parking Service to take away the citizens' money. It's an open item. This is all you speeded up because it's an electronic charge. So if you're going to put a camera everywhere, how much that camera costs, make so many garages, make so many parking spaces, and you won't have a problem with vehicles that are wrongly parked. We were almost in a situation where in Belgrade the famous mayor of Gilas went, freed the banks of the river, the green surface, from vehicles that parked there because of the people coming to the wedding on an abortion. Then the groom came out and said – please, I'm getting married today, if it's not a problem for that vehicle to stay and then the intervention unit, which was accompanied by the mayor, is gone because the mayor allowed it. Now we're asking the question of the application of this law. So, don't play with time and deadlines because that's not the law. In this law, Article 3 says -- the minister adopts a sublegal act, does not say within what time period and can bring it in five years, can adopt a road safety review rule in 10 years. There is no binding act of the time limit, and here, when the time limit is imposed, it is as small as possible, three minutes. Who's gonna be able to get something out of the house in three minutes and get it back? Who's crazy enough to park an illegal vehicle without having to? There are those who are privileged, whose owners have co-ordination with the city of Belgrade and the governing structure, the Parking Service must not come and take the guests' vehicles because they are vehicles of celebrities, because these vehicles are very expensive and because the Parking Service cannot enter. Here when a citizen reports that he can't drive his car through Kozjačka Street because there's a bar called Majdan, one of the owners of the officials and sponsors of DS, then Parking Service remains silent. On the other hand, wherever anyone parks for three minutes straight away, write him a plate number, points, and everything else, until he pays. Whether he can pay, whether he chooses to serve his sentence in prison or in cash, it remains a question of the possibility of anyone driving. But you also leave the possibility of paying more than a vehicle with a poor vehicle without anyone having an elite vehicle touching it. That's the difference, Mr. Chiquiriz. If you want realistically, without politics and political points, to solve these problems, then make a settlement of legal deadlines and regulation for all members of the law, and not a minister can bring something in 15, 25, 30 years, and not have to, there is no binding deadline, and here within three minutes you have to, otherwise there is a punishment and how big. Each congregation of the municipality for itself forms a public company "Parking Service". In Mladenov, they say, on the basis of the revenues planned for 2010, we will fill the budget so much and so much, the fine is 840 dinars in Mladenov. Then he says -- the city of Belgrade, based on the revenue that we are planning, is being punished by 1,800 dinars. Then where is the uniform system for both Novi Sad and Lazarec, both for Belgrade and for Cačak. There isn't. So, as to whom it suits, as to whom the budget is in a tight spot, that's how it lays down the rules. It should regulate this law, not regulate the beating in the pocket of the one who had to stand there for two minutes to insert or eject, with an explanation – if the fire caught in three minutes, five will burn everything alive. It's more than a funny story, and that's why you still have time to accept this amendment, because the electronic charge won't just come to life the way you imagined, first -- which has no conditions, second -- which doesn't have enough cameras, and third -- there's not even those who are going to look at 10,000 monitors every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43375	Nine minutes and 40 seconds of Parliament time has been used. The word is Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43376	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I don't know if we've read the same article and the same bill of amendment. Amendment 3 says a solution will be reached within a period that cannot be shorter than three minutes. So, up to three minutes there's tolerance, no matter what it's illegally parked, stopped, etc. Even if it appears in the process of removing the vehicle owner or user of the vehicle, it will give up the removal of the vehicle. Before that comes the police officer's warning not to stop there, of course, if there's a police officer, or to park. This doesn't have any touch points with those who drive jeeps, with a budget charge, with a punch in the citizens' pocket, etc. Go to Thessalonica, go to Athens, go to Prague, you will see that in the city center at night you cannot find a parking space in public parking or garages within, say, half an hour to an hour. These are the conditions of today's life in big cities. I was saying that the reasons why there isn't enough parking space don't concern this law, it's not about these provisions, and that's why I think this provision is under which a police officer warns first, so if the owner shows up, he's giving up on removing the vehicle, etc., very correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43377	One minute and 40 seconds of authorized representative's time. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43378	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. It's about the same article. Somehow, colleagues Avramovic and Chikiriz don't seem to understand each other for three to five minutes. Let's just say that what Kenan and I are proposing is kind of a compromise. It has to do, Mr. Chikiriz, with the Parking Service, Mr. Avramovic is right. What do we propose with this amendment? This member of the amendments to the law essentially regulates the carrying of improperly parked vehicles, not penalties. Every vehicle that's not properly parked should pay the fine, according to the law. The government rejects our amendment, and we propose that "only vehicles that threaten traffic safety and significantly disrupt traffic should be worn primarily". The government says, but article 62 says "a driver cannot stop", normally except for a police officer, "or parks a vehicle in a place where it would endanger the safety of other traffic participants or poses a disturbance to normal". It says so, because you suggest that vehicles that interfere with traffic are primarily worn is stupid because the law prohibits parking in places where vehicles interfere with traffic. That's not true. The law forbids parking in places where traffic is threatened, plus parking is prohibited. All those vehicles have to pay the fine. Are all those vehicles supposed to be taken away? Yeah, if there were thousands of spiders, we hope we don't get to that situation. We suggest the following, not to be on a police officer, because he gives a parking order to a parking service, he can't carry a parking service according to his means, but a cop says – this vehicle is illegally parked, carrying it, and we say – a policeman should say – this vehicle is improperly parked, fined by him, disrupts traffic and endangers safety, so he carries it. There are many more vehicles, these primarily refer to cities, Belgrade and other major cities that have a vehicle delivery service. A cop in the last village can charge a parking ticket, but there's no parking service. We say -- don't, gentlemen, be wearing vehicles that are improperly parked on Belgrade's wide sidewalk, where there is absolutely no parking on the sidewalk here by law, a vehicle has been parked. It's easier for a cop and a parking lot to take that vehicle than that jeep he was talking about. That's a fact. Is it justified from the point of view of traffic safety that the vehicle is previously carried, which is illegally parked, which should pay the penalty for it, but which does not interfere with traffic, but rather a vehicle outside a small street cafe and in downtown Belgrade, where traffic really interferes. Because this law gives such wide discretion to the police, last year I called this law police, so if it's a political qualification, let it be, but in principle it's a valuable qualification, because the law was written by the police. In other countries where police are also implementing and caring for the implementation of traffic safety laws, the law does not write police, but writes a profession, experts. The police certainly participate with their experience, and here it's the other way around. This is where the police write, invite experts, respect their opinion or disrespect, and we end up getting police law. Why? Because it was written by the police. When the police are writing, then it's certainly only the police that have the right to illegally park and no one else. That's what this is about. We suggest that this amendment be accepted. You still have time, as legally possible all amendments, the next member is related to this, em, which is what this amendment of ours is exactly on the law of amendments, because you here regulate conduct, not punishment. The punishment shall be governed by Article 62 and by him concerning a criminal provision. You must, because of Belgrade and large cities, especially because of Belgrade, to reduce this discretionary right for a police officer to decide by his will that the vehicle will take away, so it is certainly easier for him to give a warrant, so eventually parking services, some vehicle that is illegally parked, not jeopardising traffic. Here, in New Belgrade, I live, orders a spider where the sign is banned from parking, where it objectively does not endanger the safety of the traffic of a vehicle, there the charges, and in the center of the city of traffic. Because it's easier for them. All right, let me assure you it's not police law by reducing this member's discretionary right of police to enter Duke Stepe, so if there are 40 improperly parked vehicles to issue a warrant for 36th or 25th, not to start from the beginning. That's what this is about. First, those who threaten traffic or significantly interfere with traffic, and then those who remain illegally parked. This second one needs to be charged, but it doesn't have to be worn before these first ones do, and that's the essence of our change.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43379	Four minutes and 20 seconds, you've wasted your time as an authorised representative and the principles of the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Ostojić submitted an amendment adding a new Article 6a after Article 6. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43380	I'm going to pick up where I left off. So we're proposing that local self-government come up with an annual plan that has priorities, that is, principles and principles that control improperly parked vehicles in the city. Just to reduce the discretionary law of the police and parking service to choose who they're going to wear and where they're going to wear it from. In an explanation that the government rejects this amendment, it states that this law is the sole authority of the police to take care of traffic safety, which I read about like this – what has this local self-government to come up with plans. The parking service plans, so now the police have not taken the parking service under their control. They'll be wearing uniforms in a parking lot. No, we're just saying there has to be a plan. You police have a plan where you set up radar. It doesn't say the traffic police station commander, let's go where, take the radar and go, stop where you want and hunt the drivers, but there's a plan, even publish that plan in the means of public information to use, let's say, deter, or warn drivers where the radars are that day and that day on which roads. Which would not be done by local self-government, thereby reducing the discretion of the police. I know that, like a year ago, I'm talking about this for nothing, but I'm going to finish, since this is our last amendment, Mr. Novakovic, I'm sorry that Mrs. Komic and Mr. Micunovic, who was briefly, I'm sorry that they are not the representatives of the biggest party of your ruling party, I am speaking to you gentlemen from the ruling majority. The debate over this law shows how much you allow this parliament to be trampled by the government and it is not good for you from the ruling majority. I understand the loyalty of the government, you chose it, you're satisfied, you've brought some sort of a declaration of reconciliation between the two parties. The government's behaviour towards parliament will eventually come back to us all. The fact that Mrs. Comić interprets that we as MPs have only to submit amendments to the members of the law proposed by the government and nothing else is absolutely just one in a series of rocking, or degrading parliaments that have been going on for a year, through a campaign of what our salaries are, what are our diaries, how much are our champagne and creamy in the restaurant, etc. We are MPs, and each of us can pass the law, to endure, whether it will come to the agenda, it is decided differently, most of it. We can propose amendments and amendments to any law, and here someone is challenging us to propose amendments to a member of the law that is on the agenda. What's on the agenda? Changes and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. If we suggest changes and additions to some of the members of the government, the police, the promoter, whoever didn't mean it, we're challenged. We also have the right to propose what kind of restriction is that? Who can do more, I guess, less. What's the name of the agenda? Changes and additions to the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads. When I propose an amendment to treating motorcycles on the back wheel as violent behavior, they say - so we didn't mean to change it. What does that look like, please? Are we going to fix the law? Do you force us to submit bill proposals without adopting them? What does it mean, alterations and additions? What does the word "legal supplement" mean? There's something changing that exists, and the supplement, what is it? It is – something is added that does not exist. In accordance with the agenda, they and I have proposed amendments. Finally, it is not once that amendments have passed and amendments have been adopted that have been made to members of laws that have not been proposed to amend the law. The practice of business is not in line, so I appeal to you. I am sorry that there is no president of the DS political council to advocate his authority, not to allow such degradation of parliament and all of us, primarily of you, and that in the day of voting we vote on amendments, to make this law better, because this law really has nothing liberal, left-wing, or right-wing within itself, but the law that all those who voted for are sitting here and for all who have not passed the censorship and who have not gone to the vote is for all. Don't let Parliament go any further, let the government decide what we can talk about, because they'll call us citizens at the end -- the flow water heater of the government, and I don't know what water is, and what's stone. You'll certainly be a stone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43381	Four minutes of Parliament time. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group to the 21st National MP of the Progressive Group of Serbia. The word is Mr. Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one more piece of evidence, what my colleague Ostojić was saying and what the other fellow MPs were saying, counting on Mr Chikiriz, we are proposing amendments to the amendments you have provided for, and they relate to the chapter 21 of the criminal provisions and that chapter of the special jurisdiction of the criminal proceedings. You plan on Article 314a that the competent organisational unit of the ministry may give up the application to initiate the infringement procedure to the competent authority, if the offence has been committed because the participant in the traffic, making an offence, has acted in order to protect the safety, i.e. to protect and save lives, health or property. The SNS parliamentary group suggests that for the reason that Mr Ostojić is also Mr Ostojić, and for the reasons why the media, together with the amendment and addition proposal in article 10, were engaged in the preceding days, that the proposed Article 7, as well as that Article 10, which my colleague Otto Kishmarton will talk about, are deleted, for the reason that it is unequivocally seen here that the MUP, or its competent organisational units, are placed in a different position than other state authorities. Your explanation is that this is not an extreme necessity, as explained in Article 314a, and our argument is that the Law on Infringements in its Article 14 states that there is no breach if the action is prescribed as a violation is committed in extreme urgency and everything else that the Law on Infringements in Article 14 states eliminates the reasons for the proposal to add Article 314a after Article 314a. Probably this change in the proposed Article 314a does not apply to you colleagues, to our fellow MPs, because we cannot forget that the media wrote not so long ago that we MPs of this house were excluded from criminal provisions. For example, I cite my example that in order to exceed the speed of 10 km per hour, I received a payment for 5,000 fines, which is also the provisions of special jurisdiction in the infringement procedure, regulated in the current Bill Proposal from Articles 312 to 314. You are indeed giving these additions special powers, which were not in the mentioned Articles 312, 313 and 314, to special competences to the competent organisational units of the MUP, or to the traffic police. That's what he's saying and the situation where I was less than 12 hours ago as a participant here in front of the National Assembly, in traffic at a traffic light next to three traffic police officers, at a light from King Alexander's Boulevard towards Takaviska, passing a motorcycle without equipment, without a helmet, in a red light, and no one reacts, does not stop him. This is not just proof that in Kragujevac or Belgrade, as Mr. Chikiriz spoke about the situation in Kragujevac, such things are happening, we do not have a few situations in all cities, especially after midnight motorcyclists commit such violations, and the situation that in the interior and smaller places they run and race in front of the eyes of traffic police, with lights turned off, between vehicles mostly controlled by younger drivers. Whether this Article 7 is literally an individual assessment of the organisational unit, i.e. the traffic police, what should or should be eliminated from the offence or not, this practice will show, but all the reasons and reasons set out in the Law on Infringements and what is in other laws, which do not in any of their legal proposals call for those members who are already by some other laws, in this case the Law on Infringements, regulated except in this Amendment to the Law on traffic safety on roads. Therefore, from all these arguments and colleagues who have spoken before me and many arguments, it is necessary to delete Article 7. A bill on traffic safety on the roads.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43383	Three minutes of Parliament time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Zoran Ostojic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment adding a new Article 7a after Article 7. There's no answer for word. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43384	Dear fellow Members of the People, we have proposed that Article 10 be deleted in an amendment to the law, and that member is proposed to replace the prison sentence with a fine. We believe the proposed replacement of the fine will not contribute to traffic security, but may have opposite effects. In an explanation of the government why it does not accept our proposal says – according to the solution so far for very difficult illegal driving behaviors without an appropriate driver's license, driving under the fact that alcohol is more than two proms, overrun the speed of movement by more than 70 km per hour in the settlement and 80 km outside of the settlement, and secondly, it was intended exclusively for prison punishment. We're about to keep it that way in this law. Further to the government's explanation, I think that this is the most important and that the whole amendment of the law is passed precisely because of this Article 10, where further explanation of why the amendment is not accepted – given that a significant part of the money from the fines charged is intended to improve traffic safety, the positive effect of applying such a solution would be multiple. We see from this that the most important thing for the government is this financial effect, not security, so as much money is collected from the citizens of drivers and other traffic participants. It is clear from the very explanation that the reasons and concerns are not for security, but the intention to send as much money into the police register as possible, if, in Article 18 of this law, most of the fines charged go directly to the police. Significant participation in the most serious offenses is precisely owned by luxury and fast vehicles, whose payment of fines is no problem, no reason to stop endangering security. They pay a fine of 1,000 euros and drive further, further endangering security. For such offenders, prison punishment is already a reason to avoid rampage along the way. In his desire to take as much money from citizens as possible, police as a proposing of this law do not even care about social differences. For some offenders, 120,000 or 150,000 dinars are just a morning allowance, while for most citizens it is an economic disaster. Citizens with average salaries won't be able to pay such a fine, because most of them are already over-indebted without it, and I'm not talking about those who receive minimum wages or are out of a job. Police work can't be valued at how much punishment a police officer has charged, because it's not just about punishing citizens and charging budgets. The goal of the police should be, among other things, the security of the citizens. And the budget needs to be filled with workers in their factories and all the other employees. As you can't say for doctors, they're the best doctors, say, in kickinda, where there are the most patients in town. So their task is prevention. They'll be the best ones where there are no patients. That's right with the police. The success of the police is so much higher if there are the least traffic accidents in a city, the least accidents happen, etc. So the job of the police isn't to fill the budget. The police should be rewarded in those cities where the least accidents and the least traffic violations occur. The minister is not here, and he certainly won't accept this amendment. I believe that in the coming period, perhaps in the fall, another minister will consider this and accept many amendments that were very good and proposed by the opposition, and that will certainly significantly improve this law, of course, in favour of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43385	Two minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word was Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43386	This is a change that probably caused the most controversy in the public, because it gives room for different interpretations. One of the interpretations previously made in his discussion is that the desire to fill this amendment with the budget, not to punish those with higher incomes and those with lower incomes is to be in a more unequal position than those with higher incomes. But we live in the conditions in which we live and one of the really crucial reasons because we are going to vote for this amendment is that surely in the judicial proceedings, the law enforcement authority that is conducting the proceedings, under all circumstances, which is the obligation of every authority that imposes a certain penalty, will appreciate whether to impose a sentence of imprisonment or fine. Your discussion would be fully in place if this change would have prescribed a fine instead of a prison sentence. So there's no jail time, there's no pay, you do a serious offense – you can buy your freedom, you don't go to jail. It's not like that. It's prescribed alternatively. So, for those violations that didn't cause a car accident, which wasn't done in difficult circumstances, where there aren't any consequences, say, in a slow traffic zone, where at night after three hours, where there's no one, someone drives at a speed that's 50 or 60 km higher than allowed. I'm sure it's a violation, and it's certain he deserves to be punished. So a fine of 120,000 or 150,000 dinars is absolutely appropriate. Is there any consequence of this behavior? There isn't. Any injured faces, car accidents? There isn't. But there's been a misdemeanor. What in a situation where such illegal behavior has the effect of a car accident? It is certain, and it is the court's authority, that under all circumstances, if someone drives with alcohol in their blood over two proms, it is certain that such a violation deserves a prison sentence. Certainly not during the period of protection, if someone is deprived of a driver’s license, and despite being deprived of his driver’s license and infringing a motor vehicle, it is certain that such behaviour deserves a lesser sentence and is certain that it does not require a prison sentence. But, on the other hand, since we live in the conditions in which we live, because Serbia is a country where organised crime flourishes, because Serbia is a country where there are still a number of untouched mob and organised crime groups, it is certain, and these are all the reports of all the relevant commissions that visited our prisons, that we do not have enough space for even the most difficult perpetrators of criminal acts, we do not have the capacity in prisons. And that's certainly one of the reasons that's not for the state to justify it, but the conditions are the same that, in addition to not charging the fine, you'll send someone to prison after five, six or seven years, when the punishment loses absolutely every purpose, and plus you'll have to, conditionally speaking, to support that face, to guard it, to feed it, etc. The state has no use for that, and the punishment has lost its full meaning over the course of time. The Institute of Depreciation in Criminal Procedure was introduced in a misdemeanor procedure because of it, but it did not only survive in our legal system, but in all legal systems in the world, which, after a certain period of time, completely loses its meaning and therefore ceases the proceedings due to obsolescence. , so we from the list ZES have a lot of justification and understanding for the government's proposal and therefore we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43387	You've wasted your time as an authorised representative and another two minutes of the parliamentary group's time. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Zhivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43388	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10, to add after the word "day" the words "or the fine of 30,000 to 50,000 dinars". Also, in attitude 2 after the word "days", the words "money fines from 50,000 to 80,000 dinars" are added. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that on the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure, where the representatives of the Government were present, and as we see today, there is no politicisation, and the opposition and the position agree that there should be great security in traffic, that is, by certain drastic measures, all in the desire to punish our man whether jail time or in his pocket. That's actually the goal that needs to achieve a certain result. Your story, Mr. Chikiriz Mirko, is actually a story that tells you about the success of whether you will be brought up as well as those who have been caused by traffic violations or those who need to respect everything you need to respect, and certain regulations and legal procedures in traffic. I have submitted the amendment because in Section 1, you are a lawyer, a legal person, is not consistently stated how to respect. Here, I'll read it to you, so you'll see that in Section 1, even in Section 2, there's been a misdetermination and you haven't said or explained what you wanted to say in Section 1 and 2. Also, it means 15 days in prison or a fine of 100 to 120 thousand dinars and 14 penalty points, the driver who manages the vehicle without the driving licence of the category he manages, except where the driving licence has expired. I'm asking you, I didn't understand here, so I just filed the amendment, because the driver's driving a vehicle or who doesn't have a driver's license or who's currently forgotten his driver's license, so the driver's police stopped him, she took control, and she saw that he didn't have a license on him. The second position is, it also manages a tourist vehicle without a driver's license and special travel vehicle management permits, unless the driver's licence, or a special permit, expires. The tourist company will set up someone to drive a bus carrying tourists or passengers without having adequate equipment at any given time. When I say adequate equipment, I mean driver's license. It's in this first and second attitude unsaid. As for all these 17 views that you have covered with this article, the Serbian Radical Party, and I, as its member, agree that all those who would compromise traffic security or commit a traffic violation should be really rigorously punished. In the end, you can see that you are coming back into collage, which is: "If the driver in the execution of an offence under Article 1 of this article caused a car accident, he will be punished for at least 45 days or for a fine of 120 thousand to 150 thousand dinars and/or 16 penalty points". Now I'm asking you, if he didn't have a driver's license, do you punish him with 120,000 dinars and 14 penalty points, plus if he caused it or if he did get into this punishment if he caused it or if he was the perpetrator of a car accident like this? That is also said in Article 2. Also, a protection measure will be imposed against the management of a motor vehicle for at least eight months, and in the case of Articles 2 to 2 of this Article for a period of at least 10 months. So you didn't decidently describe here, or explain how you understood the attitude of article 1 and attitude 2 and later by joining one and the other. So this is where I'm looking for an adequate answer. Ladies and gentlemen, we're discussing what, God forbid, can happen, and it's a car accident. But in fact, we don't discuss what needs to be done before, so stop it from happening – car crash or car accident or those who have to cause it all. You are aware that car manufacturers in the last ten years have been trying to reduce vehicle weight while increasing speed. Now I ask you – can the infrastructure in Serbia today cover this or not? My colleagues spoke very Decidently about this bill, and they wanted this amendment to improve these names and the addition of the law, but in certain cases you did not follow, even on the Committee on Transport, the representatives of the Government did not accept any amendments submitted by the opposition. I believe that, adequately in this case, government representatives cannot follow, because we are always talking about something that is the cause, but we are not talking about the main cause, which is about the road infrastructure, which today is catastrophic in Serbia. The Minister of Infrastructure has come out. I was happy to see him today, but he came out, but I wanted to ask a few questions that are very important to traffic safety. Secondly, I also asked on the Traffic Committee how to prevent or try to prevent young drivers, those who have a license, I say with a small work experience and who are the most common cause, young people who carry speed, carry youth, they forget, and in their encounter they cause tragedy, which, unfortunately, ends tragically. It is therefore necessary to improve quality. This is where we got from the community car school, you probably all got it, but I have to tell you, at the time I took the driving test in the '70s, it was still pretty rigorous. Secondly, it seems to me that it wasn't then, perhaps to a lesser extent, corruption in those institutions. Today we can read in the paper that certain people who were in those driving exam institutions received bribes. It's not sad that he took the bribe, but the problem is that he let someone get to the license and that tomorrow they're producing a tragedy. It is unfortunately present today in Serbia. Also, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues were talking about a problem where for individuals of this fine of 100,000, 120,000 and 150 grand means nothing. A month ago, you had one big crash of two big bosses in Serbia, Peconia and Chumeta, where they stopped all the traffic so they could argue or grab each other by the throat, or throw out their private army, because today in Serbia, unfortunately, there is a private army present that many have. That's what we have to face, because individuals also have heavy weapons to be involved in fighting, due to internal disagreements, with individual bosses. These are the people who are with you together. They're your sponsors and you won't punish them because you need them. Chiquiris, you just smiled, but that's the problem of this democracy, when you were coming in October 5th, it was your one desire to stop all of them, and last night a good movie showed that after the five-octobaric revolution all of this was happening. It's continued, it's all the same only he doesn't have a chance, but it seems to me that the period that once was, it was a period of democracy, not the one that is today. Ladies and gentlemen, what is also very important is that we are talking about traffic safety especially in settlements, a populated area, where certain vehicles must move at a certain speed. But what about those speed limit devices? A lot of people take it off. What are they taking off for? Especially those companies or drivers who work in construction companies, who work in terms of impact, and to get to the destination as soon as possible, or to earn as much as possible, they do not respect the speed of movement and that is also one of the conditions that can cause a great tragedy. Also, in settlements there is no walking trail where citizens can move, especially when children return from school. We're doing something, but we haven't stopped that tragedy from happening in advance. That's all you're planning ahead of schedule, but what's supposed to be done, and that's all these walking approaches, all the security of the citizens moving along the walking path, they've got to enjoy the real security over everything else. But it doesn't seem to exist. It's not because you know very well that those owners of these construction firms enjoy your trust, you or they sponsor them, and that's why today they're not all equal to judges for violations, because usually dads and mom's sons, especially functioners' sons, they'll probably take out these 150,000 and 200,000 dinars easily. What do you think of those who do not, because the social map today in Serbia is very difficult? What do you think of the man, the peasant who's in a hurry to come back, and he's overrun some kind of mileage, so he's been to the market and he's sold the goods for small money and the cop stops him, takes everything he's earned? That's the difference that you don't look or you're not in this article, Mr. Chikiriz, explained how and in what way, can you punish a driver for a license he forgot as a traffic participant who doesn't have a driver's license? There you did not declare the type of offence, or punishment. What is also very important to me, and that is, ladies and gentlemen, you see that unfortunately there is no Minister of Infrastructure, I wanted to ask a few questions that are related to the repair of the Gazel Bridge, because in the Transport Committee, all relevant information, plans and calculations regarding the scope, conditions, total prices, dynamics and deadlines for the reconstruction of the Gazel Bridge and the accompanying works on the project are required by the Ministry of Infrastructure, no later than 15 February this year. Under number two, the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia" is obliged to deliver through the Ministry of Infrastructure by 15 February of this year to the Transport and Connection Committee and the competent institutions of the city of Belgrade the exact calculation and analysis of the cost of reconstruction due to previous delays in the beginning of work. Three, in order to coordinate preparations for the implementation and avoidance of problems in the functioning of goods and passenger traffic, is recommended to form a co-ordination body that will be entered by representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, JP "The Paths of Serbia" and the city of Belgrade. And four, the Committee asks the government of the Republic of Serbia to, using its rights as founder, examine the business of JP "The Ways of Serbia" and Mr. Drobnjak, establish a possible responsibility and order JP "The Paths of Serbia" to strengthen control of the state and functioning of the Gazel bridge and to regularly inform the public and competent institutions. I'm interested as an MP, and probably in the citizens, which is why the work on the Gazel Bridge was delayed? Six months from the beginning of this year, so let's say three months before the end of 2009, we listened and you informed the public about the problem of the Gazel Bridge. I'm interested in why in the course of the tourist season from the contractors, it's only now accepted to work the Gazela Bridge?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43389	15 minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The word came from Mr Nikola Savic first, then Mr Avramovic and Mr Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43390	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a short word to say about the amendment submitted by my distinguished colleague, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. This amendment refers to Article 330 of the basic text of the law, and this article has also drawn a lot of attention from both the public and the parliamentary groups themselves. Namely, this member is required to replace the prison sentence, which was provided for in the previous law, under certain conditions with a fine. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party has nothing against it in principle, but we retain our principled position that this power is the only thing that knows about punishments and that these penalties are always enormously high and inappropriate to the standard and conditions of Serbian citizens. Article 330 refers to some 17 items here, of which the largest number of these items does not fall and cannot be taken under the so-called “. ” violent driving. That's why we asked for the penalty to be reduced, but of course that doesn't apply to, say, point 4 of this article referring to a person who runs a vehicle with two or more alcohol spills in his blood. I have to admit, there are a lot of things here where people are simply forced to break regulations, and you predict a fine of 150,000 dinars. Let's say point 5) that says, "If you don't stop at the road crossing across the railway line." I come from Nis, unfortunately, Mr. Mrkonjic knows that, but I don't see him here. Nis is literally divided into two parts by the railway from Nis towards Dimitrovgrad and has been talking for years about a project to move that railroad. I live in that part of Nis where I'm forced to cross that railroad every day. There are a dozen of these crossings, and very often it happens that signalling, or ramps, defenders don't work and sometimes kilometre lines are created, and then people wait, wait, and then they start crossing the track. If this law were consistently applied and all those forced to do so, not by their own fault, would be punished by a fine of 150,000 dinars. Of course, some statistics say that somewhere around 1% to 2% of people who fall under the provisions of this law make those violations and that only 1% to 2% of these people are, on condition, returnees. But for this reason, whether because of those 1% or 2% of people, these kinds of dragon sentences should be imposed on some who really don't or only once in their lives have committed such a violation. For example, a child is born and he hastens to see his wife, to see a child, or, far away, someone is gravely ill, commits some offense, and you punish him immediately. And in the principle debate, I said that those who drive violently, and there were a lot of examples, going through the red light, driving motorcycles on one wheel, which don't stop, which are not subject to any regulation, are very few. Unfortunately, there are them in all the cities. The police need to run statistics on them and on every repeat violation or multiple repeated violation of this guy to permanently take away their driver's license, and there are people who may once in their lives commit a violation and perhaps one of these violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43391	Four minutes and 50 seconds of MP time were used. Mr Avramovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43392	I'm sorry, four minutes left?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43393	There are three minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43394	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an excellent example in which sanctions are charged by means of money and in which those who can't pay for it are privileged. This explanation says that traffic law enforcement allows judges to pass judgment anyway. We agreed that prison places should belong to those people who have done a pretty good part of the crimes or crimes. There are both in opposition and in position. I wouldn't speak for my party, because I know there isn't, but those who call themselves the opposition have the elements for a crime. Even for most of the prisons we have, they could build up just enough to make up that quota to keep the peace on the street, and everything else would go by itself. So, a traffic violation isn't covered by a dragon penalty, a fine, because it's a selective way of someone famous, probably a pronoun. I'm not familiar with it, and now I'm going to ask a question, what is it, what is this solution and what is it based on what is this amount of compensation determined? He says, "He manages the tram without a driver's license and a special tram management license, unless the driver's license or special permit expires." First, who in Serbia has the possibility to drive a tram besides City Traffic Company? Is that what you plan to privatize and create a private tram transport, which makes you doubt if that private privateer who organizes a private tram will give someone a tram to drive without a driver's license? I guess it makes sense that someone who doesn't have a license to drive a tram can't be admitted to the GSP. Here, that's one first logic. Another logic. Point 14) - does not stop a vehicle in front of a pedestrian transport on which at least one pedestrian is located, when it is prohibited by light traffic sign or by sign of an authorised official. What difference does it make if one is on foot or none or 101, it's forbidden, so it's forbidden to pass. So, if he's got a foot he can go red, it's no problem, and if he doesn't have a foot, then we'll see what the person who regulates traffic tells him? Then he says – do not stop at the crossing of the road across the railway if the road closure device is down or started to descend, or if light or sound signs are given which warn that this device will start to descend, i.e. to cross the railway line, in cases where a child under 12 is transported in the vehicle, or manages a bus carried by passengers, or another vehicle carried by public transport of passengers. What difference does it make how old a child is in a vehicle when crossing the track on which the ramp is lowered? I'm asking you how he's going to react to an 85% rail where there's no ramp, no light or sound signal? How are we going to regulate that, or how are we going to sanction it, with an explanation that it's a difficult traffic operation? "A child under the age of 12." Are you saying you care better about our children than we do, so we're going to come into a situation where we risk our children's lives crossing the line that wasn't marked by paying a fine of 150,000 dinars? "As a participant of a car accident in which a person suffered physical injury, i.e. died, or major material damage occurred, did not stop the vehicle, or did not inform the police and remain at the scene of the incident until the police arrived and the end of the insight. "Tell me, who's going to check it out and how? I've seen a car crash, a complete traffic stop to honor this member of the law, no one can pass until the insight is complete. Where's that gonna go? When was that in practice? I will be subject to legal responsibility and pay a fine of 150,000 dinars for not reporting to the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43395	The time for your parliamentary group is up. Thank you. The word is Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43396	I think it's time to slowly bring this quality discussion to an end. Mr. Zivanovic, whom I highly respect, has asked a direct question from Section 1 or 2. – is there a safeguard measure going on, is there a mandatory prison sentence going on, etc? Again, it is prescribed for perpetrators of a prison sentence or fine that will be determined by the court, depending on the circumstances of the case. In cases where a car accident occurred, a prison sentence, so far unconditional, can be replaced by a fine, but in any case, when an offence is committed, the protective measure of seizing a ten-month driver's license is mandatory, and in cases where there is no car accident, a driver's license is withdrawn for eight months. Now, what could be traffic accidents? A entrant of a car accident can do himself material damage without being physically injured or harming a person. If there are injuries to a person, then it's already a criminal responsibility, it's not criminal and it's subject to a criminal code. For this reason, the authority of the judge for the offences, since this matter is about violations, that, depending on the circumstances of the case, whether the perpetrator has previously committed offences, it is determined by a copy of his criminal record and criminal record, what the adverse consequences have taken place, how much material damage, in which circumstances the offence has been committed, is it the same if he drives at 50 km per hour during the working day when the students are in school, on the sidewalk, etc., or after midnight, etc. All these are the powers of the Court of Justice for violations, and that is why I said that now, of course, as with all the laws applicable in practice, those applying the law will be held accountable. Here tomorrow, with full rights, we will be able to call judges who are not jailed for serious crimes, but fines.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43397	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Transport and Relations, submitted an amendment to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We have completed a search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? The word is Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43398	First, I have to apologize for coming out of here on two occasions. It was never a practice for me, but since Mr Avramovic was talking about road crossings, there was the first man of European railways, and there was talk about it, just about those road crossings. Please accept my apology. But, regardless, all of this I've been following so far has once again confirmed my knowledge that this high house is absolutely competent, even more competent than I am for traffic safety issues. I thank all the MPs who discussed it, especially the three ladies, Mrs. Jorgenka, Mrs. Jelen and Mrs. Milosevic, but not because they are ladies, but because they have taught me something by the quality of their discussions. Also, I thank Mr Avramovic, Chikiriz, Savić, Perić, Mr Ostojić, for everything they said and absolutely agree with it, and I am one of the people who does so in practice, that it does not have to be a form of primary if we have the essence on the other side. Of all the amendments you've made here personally as a man, I would accept everything. They're all about this, and it's good that we talked about it. But there's always one, but there's another 52 subdocuments legal, of which 25 at the Ministry of Infrastructure and 26 at the MUP, which we're now bringing. For example, so far they have been brought to the Ministry of Infrastructure - the Signalling Regulation has been adopted, the tachography Regulation has been adopted and the vehicle Regulation is going to the government next week and will be adopted next week. So every week we're going to have one of those documents that's following the documents for what we talked about. So, the 23 amendments submitted by the parliamentary groups and the Transport Committee were considered, except for these seven which did not refer to the matter on the agenda, 16, and of those 16 were adopted six. I must thank all MPs once again for participating in the discussion and I promise that by the end of the year we will have another debate on the topic of the new traffic safety law, that most of your remarks will be installed. I especially speak to Mrs. Jorgenka, you're right, we often point out, Mr. Simic returns, the role of police and the MUP. I have to say, at night, I've been stopped twice, how hard people are trying, to praise them, from Slavia to Cubura, and I have to say that only that element that we've reduced the number of accidents the dead have not been reached by law alone. Of course, there are a whole series of other elements that have a significant impact on that. I will say one more very important thing, given that truckers too, Mr. Jovanovic, this job is doing brilliantly in my portfolio, every week at least once I talk to them, they claim that, which is very important to me, and for you as MPs, economic growth has begun, of course, not to say what certain ministers say that we have come out of the crisis, but through this, there is still an increase and traffic on the roads and, of course, it affects traffic safety. The application of the law, which is why I point out the role of the MUP, I must once again praise them, is very important, not only what we have written, but also to apply it, and so far, according to what we know, there has been no selective law enforcement, at least not in some global quantities. The law was applied as much as it could at that moment and it was a very important element. I thank all the MPs once again. I'm sorry I had to come out twice and stay away from this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43399	We thank you, too. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. On the basis of article 85, I am setting a break in today's work and we will continue at 3:30 p.m., by discussing amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I welcome you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43400	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with apologies for the eight minutes of delay from the scheduled start at 3:30 p.m., we continue our work. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Agency for the Fight against Corruption (Statistics) You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments: Tomislav Nikolic, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Bozidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Saša Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Borislav Posević, Milet Poscurica, Gojko Radić, Mićo Rogović, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Milica Vojić, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Nikola Lazić, Miroslavaljević, Mirić, Mirić Mira Mirić, Mirić Mirić, Mirja Mirić, Mirja Mirić, Mirica Mirić, Mirić You've received the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before we move on to a review of the draft law in particular, I remind you that MPs Dragan Markovic Palma, Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic have withdrawn the amendments they have submitted together to members 11 and 29 and MP Dragan Šormaz, who submitted the amendment to Article 29. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 1. The government didn't accept the amendment. Before I give a word to MP Sasa Maksimovic, just to remind MPs that representatives have been authorised to search in particulars of the fourth item of the agenda, MP Vesna Pesic - MP group LDP, MP Dejan Radenkovic - MP group SPS-JS, MP Milica Radovic - MP of the DSS – Vojislav Kostunica, MP Sasa Milenić - MP group G17 plus, MP Aleksandar Martinovic - MP of the SRS Group. Technical notice on the duration of the direct television broadcast of the debate in the details that is under way, today at a direct transmission of up to 18.00 hours. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm sorry we don't have the government's opinion ahead of us. I don't know, Madam Chairman, where did you get your opinion, we don't have it as MPs. I don't know what arguments I'm supposed to use in front of Madam Minister since I don't know what the government's rationale for refusing amendments is, but I'm going to try very well this way, I hope the amendment will be accepted. We suggested that you be in Article 1. The bill is added by new positions 2 and 3 which read as follows: "The provisions of this law do not apply to members of the managing body of public undertakings and institutions whose founder is municipalities or cities, if they do not receive compensation for the performance of functions, except for provisions on conflict of interest, gifts and illicit influence on officials. The provisions of this Act on the prohibition of the performance of other work or activity, the transfer of management rights and the prohibition of employment or of business co-operation at the end of the function shall apply to officials performing a function requiring the establishment of a working relationship and for which it is specified by a special regulation." We have proposed this amendment to add paragraphs 2 and 3 to Article 1 of the Law. The new position 2 provides that members of the managing body of public undertakings and institutions whose founder is a city or municipality shall only be subject to provisions on conflict of interest, gifts and illicit influence on officials without the other provisions of the law being applied, provided that they do not receive compensation for the exercise of functions. This category of functionors is already excluded from the obligation to report assets and that is, by Article 45(1). The law. In view of the insignificant powers of these officials and the fact that they do not receive compensation for the performance of their functions, there is no reason to apply other provisions of the law other than those proposed. Also, it should be borne in mind that the functioner of this category has tens of thousands, of which only members of primary school boards have nearly 20,000. It is evident that the application of many provisions of the law goes beyond, of course, the Agency itself. It is possible to establish from the very provisions of the law that there is no need or possibility for their application in relation to this category of functionors, but the reasons for legal certainty require it to be prescribed in a clear way. The new position 3 provides that the provisions prohibiting the exercise of activity, the transfer of management rights and the prohibition of employment shall apply only to officials who have established a working relationship because their application to other officials is not justified. Article 30(1) also states that, but also other provisions, only the general name – functioner, which indicates that these provisions should apply to all other officials, although in principle they are not possible. In order to remove these ambiguities and in order to ensure legal certainty in the application of the law, it is necessary for this issue to be regulated in a clear manner by the proposed provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43402	A minute and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43403	Dear Madam Minister, the Honorable Presidency, I wanted to say first something about what the issue of this law is and the amendments and the additions, but I would also point to some specific, which I believe may be the irregularities that the minister might have in mind and in the revision consider, if he considers it necessary. First, when we passed this law, we discussed it as a system law, as a law that we had long expected, that it was superficially engaged in corruption, because even then it was said that it was more than one extension of the former Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, rather than it was really a timer of the overall problem of corruption in Serbia, nor was it timed by the main sources of corruption, but rather, it mostly comes down to conflict of interest. Where it extends certain responsibilities, let's say the control of the financing of political parties, we've yet to point out that there's actually no methodological instructions on how the Agency does this job at all. As we can see, she hasn't rolled her sleeves to do it yet. Since the work has just begun, we can, of course, allow these methods to perfect in the future. Then we assessed the law as insufficiently thorough so that it could be the main foundation in the fight against corruption. Now with these changes we've received, we've seen that these changes that have come have been followed by some kind of affair, so to speak. What do I consider to be affairs? First, you had a Constitutional Court which suspended that famous article 82, that officials, after the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2010, who are in dual functions, must define themselves as one function by 1 April. This has already been put in place and has not been applied to the Constitutional Court proposal. You've given certain opinions that are in conflict of interest and who isn't. You've taken over the role of the Agency. In the end, you had consultations with the Anti-Corruption Agency and you delivered one version of this bill, and then at their insistence, you simply did, then you shared this version with them, and this previous one you withdrew. I'm just saying, there's been a lot of bumps about what we've now received as amendments and additions to the law. I would like to say one more thing, that in the meantime since we passed this law, that every special, dedicated institution dealing with corruption is never alone able to cope with this phenomenon, but it must also have the environment of another institutional and all these institutions have to function in order for one such institution to give its full capacity. Since the time we passed that law, that environment has institutionally gone down, so to speak. Look, if you're reading any literature, it's usually about fighting corruption, especially in a society where you have nothing to touch and there's no corruption, because there was talk about the party state here. Without investigative journalism, there is no fight against corruption. Look at the situation of investigative journalism here, let's say Brankica Stankovic is now under police protection. He can't deal with it anymore, because he couldn't get social support to deal with it, and without that practice and such journalism, one institution or another that would deal with a specific fight against corruption doesn't have much meaning. Besides, I have to point out the law we passed, I mean in 2005 or 2006, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, I think it was July. It's the Civil Service Act of the State Administration. We had high hopes that Serbia would get through this law a neutral administration, a professionalised and stabilised administration. We saw that we were changing it from December to December and, as we would say, that law was completely broken, because it was filled exclusively with a party, a chronicist system of friends and party circle comrades, so we failed to get the relevant administration, which would be the basis, too, when it comes to this law. Then let me not say that the state institution itself had huge problems, without which it could not be talked about this problem, which controls all the spending of funds going out of the budget, primarily from citizens' incomes, so there were a lot of problems, and even that institution about protecting competition, and it didn't show up, and it had difficulties. In other words, all these regulatory institutions have indeed not proved to be effective, so as the crown of everything, we have one very profound reform of the judiciary. I'm sorry, I don't mean to open that subject, but there are very significant objections. So, if the judiciary doesn't work for us, the whole environment of such a specific institution, then in the meantime, it reduced its impact and importance, because these institutions, in the meantime, have collapsed pretty much, what we call independent regulatory institutions, and even the National Bank, which we've been talking about here very recently. If that's the situation, then we can see that this collapse, and that's why I've asked for your attention, that this collapse of institutions of this type, systemically, which should be independent, and that they should be caught in the problem, first of all with the rule of law, because corruption is the other side of the lack of rule of law, we see that this law is practically passed, these changes and complements, because of the enormous pressures that the officials have made to retain a greater number of functions and that's the essence of these changes that you've proposed to us here. You see, there's been a lot of debate here about conflict of interest and the possibility of a larger number of functions being performed. I'd like to separate these two issues, because the accumulation of public functions has a completely different meaning than the conflict of interest, because some functions that are public functions, the Agency doesn't have to establish a conflict of interest, let's say, between some company director, a public enterprise, for example. and be with this messenger in the People's Assembly. It's two public functions. Maybe you couldn't perform some kind of direct conflict of interest. Also, what was problematic, which was called to the Constitution, that the mayors were executive authorities, and then as a reason for creating spaces between the executive government, legislative and judicial authorities, that they cannot then have someone who is and in the executive government having a function in the legislative power at the same time, and these mayors, we can only talk informally about it, that they can, by getting close to the centre of government, bring funds into their municipality in an informal way, because they are very close, so that the roads, as we know, are paved in local elections, or that other services are also making them popular and that they are being prepared through this transfer of funds from the centre of certain elected feudals in certain parts of Serbia, that they are being poured into funds and that they are justified in those parts of Serbia, to prepare for elections. If we look at it in principle, it doesn't have to be any conflict of interest, because we don't represent municipalities here, or any cities, but it's not our electoral system, so in principle there couldn't be a conflict of interest, regardless of the legal ban, the constitutional ban, if it was interpreted that it couldn't be combined. When it comes to the accumulation of functions, it seems to me that here it was not understood what it was about and why they changed the law so that they could remain accumulated functions. The problem is that you cannot build up functions and the law began correctly, that one person can have one function, and only exceptionally can have two functions, and that the Agency will allow that other function or in those cases where the law allows the functioner to have two functions. Of course, it was also left very broadly, when all that was allowed, because you were alone in that situation, when you did not break the law, when you were able to be a member of the RIK, you did not violate the law, but of course that such a thing would not be allowed for the minister of justice or for the judge to go to court in some other state bodies. Then you did the right thing to bring it back. And there could have been many more restrictions, because our ministers have too much discretionary powers, say, to share money wherever they arrive. There goes Dinkic, for example, on Palic and says – I will give 150 million here. This one goes there, he says. I'll give it here this much. In other words, opportunities to participate in other acquired institutions, then participate in the allocation, let's say, of the development fund. These are all the double functions that are legally enabled, but give them a large amount of power. What I'm saying is that in the theory of banning the accumulation and cumulation of functions practically prevents the accumulation of social power. Ask those who want to hold on to those two functions whether they are disturbed by what they are getting money, say, Bajatovic probably doesn't get it. Do they have a problem with what they get, say, Bajatovic doesn't get as a man who has a large salary, in two places, in two oil companies? He doesn't care about any salary in the National Assembly. He probably doesn't get any compensation here, but he wants to have more functions, because he wants to have more power. When you have more power, you have more influence and therefore these laws defend the accumulation of functions. Of course, since they won't give up their powers, they want to keep those functions and then the changes you've brought in, you've practically made them able to continue to accumulate the amount of power that, in fact, in democratic societies, are not allowed. That's the main problem here that wasn't clear enough. Now I'm going to give examples. For example, you have people who are very high-ranking, who no one lives mentions, but mentions the duchy case, those who are in the municipality or, say, MPs in the Vojvodina Parliament, that it might be some kind of conflict of interest, or that it's a accumulation of functions. What are we going to do with people, high-ranking officials, where the Agency, or anyone else, hasn't reacted or reacted? Take, say, Minister Ljajic. He has an office across from Sava, in an old building, in a federal council building or a palace of Serbia building, where he has an office. He is the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal or has resigned in the meantime, but is head of the co-ordination body for southern Serbia. Now I'm going to say, that you explain to me – if you look at him, maybe he's given up, but I'll take an example where he's certainly not given up, maybe in the meantime he's given up all these functions, I don't know, that's what Gordana Comic now says, I can believe or not, we can check something like that, but is it somewhere when you look at the powers of the President of the Republic, are double functions when he's, for example, president of the National Security Council, when he's, say, president of the Infrastructure Council? Are those functions or aren't they? Is that a cumulation of a larger number of functions or not? In other words, I've taken these examples, and I'll take these others where they don't give up these others, because the cumulation of these functions allows them greater social influence and greater social power. Otherwise, why would they want to sit in the congregation? Why don't we go back to our community? What's the problem? Money? No, I don't. It's the law that needs to stop it. What did you do? You are in this article 82, it seems to me that this is the last member, when you look at it, you see exactly what happened here, practically disabling that member's basic idea that one person has one function, because after that you have allowed all the officials to report that they have these two functions and that now the Agency allows, allows them or does not allow them, perhaps by law they will ban someone, but you have practically allowed them all, even these others to commit. For example, you now have a date here that those who are fresh, new, double functions after entering the fact of the law, meaning from January 1st, these officials who were due to report their double functions by April 1st are primarily referring to the duchy MPs and those who are mayors in municipalities and other cases. When looking at this, why did they not respect this date for one function until 1 April, and now you give them the opportunity to be obliged by 1 September at the latest, why not within seven days, why not immediately, inform the agencies that perform all functions, jobs or activities. I guess you know which one, they reported it. Why do they report it again now, I don't get it, and you can't see why you're delaying until September? To spend their vacations? Why is such a big deadline when that deadline has already been broken since April 1st and they have not, some have defined themselves, but many have not defined whether they will take one or the other function but have ignored it. The Constitutional Court put this ad act, not to apply it, and you suggested it be September 10th. What is this reason to extend to September 10th and re-apply the same functions they reported so they had to get a function, because they had to apply and give the Agency the list we had previously filled out? It then decides whether they are in conflict of interest or not in conflict of interest. The problem is, they can't have two functions. That's my point of what I'm explaining to you. Only extremely, and that's not in which cases it's extraordinary, it can happen, but this way you give the Agency again that without any way to determine when, or explain when they can perform more functions, there's no explanation when and under what conditions they can do it, so that you're again saved, that they can continue to perform more functions. It is not known why this is possible even though the law has been thin since the beginning, but you have now stopped it because it has been pressured to want to perform a large number of functions and that it wants to retain the amount of power that they have gained so far with their careers. I think that's why you've brought these changes and why you've done this, so you're also this institution, whatever it was, whether the law was quite good or less, you've made it very loose and you've allowed this whole idea of deaccumulating functions and banning more functions practically by this. I don't know what motive, apart from political pressure, has motivated you to do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43404	Time was used for authorised representatives of the parliamentary group and minutes and 30 seconds of time for the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43405	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, this amendment, although it may, by substance, be an amendment that could be discussed and possibly consider the possibility of acceptance, we have one fundamental obstacle, therefore, it is impossible by amendment to intervene on members of the law which are not covered by amendments to the law. So this is really a fundamental problem, and it was common for the Legislative Committee to reject such amendments, because they go against that part of the law that does not cover these amendments. Otherwise, I absolutely disagree with those who think the law is loose, that the law is even more relaxed with these changes and that in this way we are actually making an effort that the state and society are making to fight corruption completely weak. On the contrary, my deep belief that this law is too rigid, therefore, that this law is too strict, that it is stricter than what democratic European standards are. So, the fight against corruption is the intention of society to cope with the phenomena that occur and when someone performs a public function, abuseing that public function, achieves unfounded him or enables someone else to gain some benefit, it does not always have to be an asset benefit, and thus harms citizens in whose name it should perform those functions. Society struggles, among other things, by defining the specific laws of what is a situation it does not accept to prevent a position in which corruption can occur. One way is to create also an independent state body, which will be independent of the government and thus have full independence that by implementing the law more seriously fights this really serious social disease. Of course, the means of society in that fight are laws and penalties. It is, therefore, that many of these acts in which a public function holder is found to be a criminal offence and that he suffers consequences under the law by which such crimes are punishable. The fact is, too, that we have passed another law that is extremely important, which is the law on confiscation of property acquired by crime. We already have a concrete example that the former director of the "Belgrade Power Plants" was taken from property acquired by abuse, in fact in performing the functions he performed and thus acquired wealth. So this is not the only way society is fighting and what I have to say is that Serbia has so far shown that it is ready to build a system and institutions from legal solutions that will create conditions for society to fight corruption. We come to what this law actually is and what the Agency is? The Agency is, therefore, engaged, under the law that we define, in cases in which society says: in order to ensure possible corruption I will create some instruments that will make it impossible for public function holders to come into a situation at all to enter into a corrupt relationship, and then the means in that fight, among other things, is the position of officials called conflict of interest. So when a functioner can be found in conflict of interest, this law is defined. The conflict of interest is a conflict between public and private interests, so when someone performs a public function creates an opportunity for himself or someone else to pursue some kind of interest. The position of conflict of interest can be very specific and different and it really does not always refer to the acquisition of wealth. I'll give you one example. In England, there was a broad debate about whether a minister who should pass a drug law was supposed to be free on the market or not, in conflict of interest because of the fact that his child is a drug addict. So, will he, because of the fact that he has a personal situation in which he will not be objective, participate in the adoption of laws that can be biased on one side or on the other. What we're interested in here when it comes to corruption is whether the public function holder or the official, as it is called here, is in a position where, by performing one public function and performing another public function, they will find themselves in a conflict of public and private interest, not public and public interest. I think it is very important to understand that if we are talking about two public interests, doing functions for two public interests, then we cannot talk about a conflict of interest. Now we come to another instrument that society can apply to enable itself to fight corruption, which is to separate functions. This law defines incompatible functions. So what can't be done at the same time as two functions, so that it doesn't come, as pointed out here, to the concentration of a government that, of course, can have an abuse and can at the same time disable the function of an organ that will control the organ that is subordinated to it? I don't agree with the fact that these amendments to the law in any way to the Agency, which we have formed to carry out the work of implementing this law, have taken any means in that fight or any tool given to it. On the contrary, I think that this law a little specific about some of the situations in which it turned out that because the law was not precise enough and clear enough, there was a problem in its application, that even in some things we gave the Agency more jurisdiction and in some ways strengthened the Agency's position. Is the biggest problem with this law defining a space where someone can perform more than one function? In my deep belief, if the performance of these two functions does not belong to that non-compatible body of functions, where a strict division of power must follow, I don't think our problem is essential to whether someone is performing another public function or two other public functions. What I'm going to agree to, that was the last time it was mentioned, is where possible corruption space is. Our public enterprises, in the position in which they are now, are indeed a place where something can happen that is at the expense of the citizens, or something that can harm the citizens. It is a special question now, a question that needs to be opened and system solutions to be sought. This law also defines the incompatibility of the functions of management of public enterprises and of some other functions. It may not be defined enough, but as long as the state is the owner of the company and has an obligation to send its representatives into it to manage these enterprises, so far we can talk about a space where there may not be enough control and could be abuse. I think this law, from the point of view of the current position of public enterprises, has defined it well enough, but it is true that the position of public enterprises needs to be resolved systemically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43406	Nine minutes and 30 seconds, the time of the president of the parliamentary group has been used. The word has a People's MP, Jorvanka Tabaković, so MP Zoran Ostojic, and then Parliamentarian Vesna Pesic and MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43407	I am particularly pleased that we have opened the fundamental question, whether and what this law regulates, and from this fundamental issue, this has also come formally, that we need to intervene on those members of the law that are not subject to amendments. What's the point? As you can see, there's talk in public about the Anti-Corruption Agency actually downgraded its functions. Just from what you just said, we can conclude, rightly, that it's just a small part of where corruption appears as an evil that we must fight with laws like this. So, we have given so much importance to a small segment, which is called the possibility of abuse of public interest for private purposes, to cumulation of functions, that all the newspapers have buzzed only about whether what the Constitution defines as a non-compatibility function can somehow now pass through the law as continues to perform these incompatible functions, and because the law allegedly came into force after accepting that one and the other functions that are, in fact, incompatible. Let's agree first, and you must agree with me, that what the Constitution says as an incompatibility of the executive, legislative and judicial authorities cannot at all be subject to treatment by lower sublaws. We cannot by forgiving God by offering sacrifice the right to do what is illegal. It's not too much to say, by offering sacrifice to please God. We give the Director of the Agency such a high position and such great authority not to the Agency's board, but rather to decide whether anyone is in conflict of interest in cumulation of two functions that are otherwise incompatible. How? By giving a different criterion of having a salary higher than the others, that in such a way it does not form the salary of a deputy, that he chooses his deputy director, where we actually accept that this is the kind of law we do what the theory calls corruption of interest and power. So, of the three forms of corruption treated by the theory, the first is corruption of reputation and custom. That's what we're all used to, the donation when someone does you a favor, so it's just a shame not to return it. It starts with 200 grams of coffee and chocolate, until you and every major medical facility have a first store where you can buy candy and then whiskey, and then a store of some exclusive and very expensive gifts, where exactly what theory treats corruption with reputation and custom. But what we do with this law, when I say to me, I mean the state, when I say you do, and we object, I mean that you in law promote corruption of interest and power. This means that in this kind of corruption is a mutual interest, because whoever gives an opinion and opinions about whether someone is in conflict of interest with this particular bribery, which is called a power that one man cannot have at the same time, who is obliged to treat law violations, and then he brings attitudes and opinions about it, and then he signs whether someone is in conflict of interest, we actually allow each other to exchange funds, so, pay 20% higher than before, we'll talk about it specifically, and by trade, on the other hand, some rights and interests. I only have one dilemma – is what we're doing with this part of the law, we're theoretically under corruption one to one, or is it click corruption and one to the other? That's what those theorists who deal with this matter could do more precisely. What I am saying and what you will certainly give me for the right is the following – all the conventions at higher levels from that world, which has far removed from us, which has no Ottoman tradition that we inherited that there is no shame in rewarding for a service, this world of heredip cumulation functions least treats. What we don't treat with this law is really in one part of public enterprises, but less in public enterprises than it is in public agencies. Public enterprises in one part and publish employment competitions, and public agencies, let someone praise me that he could have a job in one of the public agencies, where he enjoys all possible and impossible protection and a very high salary. Even this agency, which we are talking about today, which is fighting corruption on February 19th, launched a contest, those who were registered to the competition, and did not inform them of the results of the competition, nor invited them to talk, and few candidates claimed that, when they applied to hand over documents, the jobs the competition had already written at the door where the Agency was working, which also included the names of those who were already working there. I am very patient, with the life experience of waiting for every good intention of the current government to show good results, but how can I believe in fighting corruption if we in one law treat the fight against corruption and at the same time some formal issues of the founding act of the agency, the salaries of directors, the status of employees and directors, and that we are actually based on only one small part that in this society is a problem as corruption at all. What is the biggest problem of such employment that is not treated anywhere and nothing, in which you can't deny the claim that state secretaries, past competitions, by the law of the prescribed procedures, are still in places where they shouldn't be appointed in such a way, you know what I'm talking about, we've talked about this law here many times. The question arises – when you hire someone, and we are all people, and if someone does not come to work with a competition and quality that proves, completed school, professionalism, for whom he will work: for the state, for the citizens who turn over the counter, for the applicant, for the application, etc., or will work for the person who has hired them, for the one who promotes them, for the one who evaluates them and stimulates their wages, and on whom does everything else depend? Please, people, let's talk in an understandable language. We don't follow the criteria of respecting the world, nor have we covered them with this law. On the contrary, this law promotes obedience, that you may depend upon God, whoever he is. It is known who in this home, in this congregation, promotes employees. You know who's giving you a promotion proposal. Will they try to please Minister Snezani Malovic or will they try to respond to those who address your ministry with a request to address a private problem. These are people who are well-assessed by whom their pay depends, their ambition, and the satisfaction of that ambition by putting them in a higher position. These are basic sources of corruption – ways of employment. Why are these ways of hiring in public agencies the most corrupt? That's the only thing a pregnant woman can go to when she's pregnant without losing her job. The private asks that question before getting a job at the bank – do you intend to start a family, etc? There are exceptions, though. At the Privatisation Agency, 13 pregnant women were out of work, although we all publicly and loudly advocated the birthrightness, but let's just say it's an exception. So, I want to talk about eliminating corruption from this society, but we also need to talk about the Public Procurement Act, which appears as what counterpart Pesic said for a little while – wherever you touch, it's soft. These are the first places and the fight against corruption with a public interest called abuse of rights and power. Because not all people have the same basis for having that kind of power, for example. material interest or money. You have people who show their corrupt interest by being corrupt by someone else, the power to decide the fates of other people. There are various types of pathology and science is investigating it, but we don't use the achievements of that science, disabling that kind of self-loathing, but rather, by encouraging it with the unmeasured powers that we give to certain people, not controlling them, even here, considering reports, not allowing one who only reports taxes, which we had in the tax administration, when he reports corruption not to get hurt. Where are the best SUP inspectors to report the biggest corruption? They've been replaced. Where did the people of the administration, UBPOK, who discovered, go through the papers, end up with a newspaper text from which someone makes a molar hat tomorrow or a housewife throws potatoes at them? Is it a fight against corruption where affairs open and close in newspapers, where newspapers judge and condemn, where there is no presummation of innocence? Please, the good will of all of us, we all agree to fight corruption. By passing the law, you haven't realized, which has set the criteria here for what we all see and for what we're all against, but we're not all just as eager to fight it. This law deals more with the founding rights and internal arrangements of the Agency, which did not justify their trust, because for as long as there is, even the property cards did not come out correctly on the site. Who has already assessed the complexity and responsibility of the Agency's director to assess the Agency's salary so highly and that we actually have a lot of problems with what the law is about incompatible functions, and what are functions for which consent can be given. Do you intend to help you fight corruption by delivering a report on the amendments, where it says that the government has not accepted any single amendment? You yourself know it best. You started one, the other, the third body, you didn't give them the conditions to work, many of them were discredited in public, and some are rightly told that out of dissatisfaction, they put their finger against others. But it can't be said that we all point fingers at those who have illegally enriched themselves by using public interest for private purposes, we have an evil intention or we have no knowledge or we don't want to help the authorities. Does the government know all the best? If he knows all the best, there's nothing else I can wish for you but for the elections where your high knowledge and the fight against corruption will be highly assessed by the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43408	14.05 minutes have been used by the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word has an emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43409	Here comes Mrs. Hope Kolundji, who said that the Agency has been strengthened with these changes and supplements. I just wanted to read, so it would be quite clear what I was talking about, Article 82, and read the current article 82, and then clearly see the difference I was talking about. Article 82 reads: "The functioner who performs several public functions on the day of the application of this law is obliged to declare within 90 days of the date of application of this law which public function will continue. A statement from Article 1 of this Article shall be delivered to the Agency by the official." That's quite clear. Instead of Article 82, I'll tell you how this article sounds in the amended edition. An official who has performed several public functions, i.e. with a public office, performed a second job or activity on 1 January 2010, and has not defined by 1 April 2010, which public function will continue to be performed, shall be obliged by 1 September 2010, not to define which function he will perform, but rather to inform the Agency which all functions, tasks or activities are performing, and then, as we can see, upon receipt of the notice, to determine whether these public functions are being performed or whether the performance of the work or activity is "hazards the impartial exercise". So it's clear what you've changed this law into. While Article 82 of the original law has made it clear that officials are not able to perform two functions, but that by 1 April they have to declare themselves, now by 10 September they report again functions, or declare which they are holding back, so they can keep everything, and then the Agency will see whether they are in agreement, are not, whether they are impartially doing or not. It's a huge change, Mrs. Kolundjia. It has nothing to do with each other. It's not that it's not true, I explained to you that you really misunderstood, you didn't purposely, I suppose, but if you read these two members, then you'll see what Mrs. Tabakovic said. Were you then able to convince them here to give up this strict criterion that there are no cumulation functions, but that they don't have to now, now until September 10, practically only notify what functions they have, and then the Agency, it's not known on what criteria, that it's all in place, instead of how it was at the beginning. In the same law, you say you're increasing wages, there's a deputy, you're choosing a deputy, and you don't specify what the conditions are for that deputy at all. You have no conditions for a deputy. You know, I can't deal with this right now, you have a lot of irregularities in the law itself. For example, you have a deputy director who you don't say are the conditions for someone to choose as vice director. You don't say - the same terms as the director or something, but there's no such thing, but that this one of the three can choose who she wants, and there's no conditions for a deputy director. Then you have 10%, 20% salary increase. You know what, you really do come to a man's senses that it was some kind of store and that's when you managed to come up with a proposal like this. I'm not just saying that because I know the lady who did, I trust her, I don't think that's how it was, but it's untasty how it turned out here. We can have doubt and express that suspicion, although I still personally trust that person who is the director that is not such a person, that she did not expose herself to what she could have been exposed to. But now you've really done it with Article 82, now you've erased that possibility that one functioner has one function, now you've expanded it and allowed a number of functions to be performed again, the Agency will decide whether or not it can. Secondly, it's not about disagreement, nor about impartiality, as it stands here, because someone who performs two functions, in many places you haven't decided which function requires full-time, full-time or permanent working relationship. Does an MP, for example, require full-time or not require full-time? That is, for example, not exactly in the law. But it's that you can't physically, that's how you disrupt public interest in the cumulation of functions, because you can't be worth the interest of citizens to perform so many functions. How can someone who's a director in three places do a lot of these jobs, be a functioner somewhere else, and do it in the interest of the citizens? It's not just about impartiality, it's about hurting citizens. Secondly, why should one member perform such a function? What's he, some kind of genius doing all these functions? When does he arrive, when he sleeps at night? So the word is the concentration of power that you've accepted under pressure, I can't give it up, I'm sorry that Hope can't understand this, but here, she's trying to sort of justify herself here.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43410	Five minutes and 20 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43411	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought we were talking about this article in 82. Later when he was on the agenda for the amendments, but well, it never mattered when they were going to talk about it. I responsibly argue that this bill does not favour the principle of retaining a number of functions or accumulate functions, and I think that through the entire text, if read carefully, it can be seen. I'll remind you that this text was done in agreement with the Anti-Corruption Agency. Each word written here has been agreed by the task force made up of representatives of the Justice Ministry and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Also, this text of the law was in front of the Committee of the Agency, which was positively expressed. The point is why the deadline was left until September 1st. I will remind you that in Article 1 of this proposal, you can see that, in addition to public enterprises and in general functions, companies that can be the founder of the Republic of Serbia are added. It was simply missed in the original text of the law, and now it's added to this bill, so those persons who are here have to report to the Agency. Will this law completely prevent corruption? Of course not. Will the Criminal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure completely prevent corruption? He won't. But I am deeply convinced that certain mechanisms will be made to enable a preventive role in preventing corruption, and then and if such phenomena occur, then of course they will also play their repressive role. Certain things, of course, are also a question of law enforcement, and therefore, in law itself, all that can be done with one function cannot be strictly prescribed. It was, of course, given as the Agency's jurisdiction. I'll give you an example that may seem banal, but simply caused problems in practical application, in the practice of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Can anyone be a councilman and a member of the school board? Is this a conflict of interest or a battery of functions? Such matters and such examples have been left to the Agency to determine which functions do not constitute conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43412	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43413	Not getting into all the shortcomings of the law essentially, where, in fact, someone who is the director of the Vranj Laundromat can't be on the board of directors of Studio B because it's incompatible with each other. Not entering the Agency which seems to me to be composed of professional anti-corruption fighters, and as successful as it shows the degree of corruption in Serbia, I am talking because they have been running through anti-corruption bodies for years, and most of them perform more functions. That aside, here we're talking about cumulation of public functions and conflict of interest, and it all got mixed up. Milosevic also decapitated Covic in about 93. That's when we first found out, Mrs. Kolundjia, about that deaccumulation. Maybe you were a member of that party back then. When there are many public functions one can perform for free, but influence and power, it is called the trade of influence in the west, it is a source of corruption. The conflict of interest is something quite different, not between two public functions, but public and private. You could have found a closer example than that British minister whose son is a junkie who proposes a drug law. Mr. Vlahovic, he is a member of the board of directors, if not the president, of a private bank, and here he decided to give guarantees for the loan that the bank is giving. Private and public, not two public ones, and can essentially be a conflict of interest, even bigger than Mr. Bajatovic, who performs two public functions. Mr. Bajatovic accumulates great power and can trade influence because he is headed by serious, wealthy companies, it is private here. In America, it's handled with the fourth voting button. There are many examples of such as Mr. Vlahovic and it is not considered immoral or unfair, but when such a law comes in which he, using the function chosen by the people of the vote, or should vote, the fourth push button, and on it writes – do not vote because it is in conflict of interest. Do not let God in America in some countries press for or against such a man, but must press – restrained and declare himself to be in conflict of interest and not to vote on it. If he votes, then there are criminal sanctions. I only answered for one thing. You reiterated something Mrs. Comic today about the Traffic Safety Act tried to present as her opinion, in fact as her opinion, you reiterated it. We MPs, you say, have no right to submit amendments to other members other than those that the Government wanted to change with changes and supplements. Absolutely, Mrs. Kolundjia. I'm glad you're here. I'll just repeat part of what I said. Please do everything you can to ensure that such a nakaradic interpretation of our rights never again in this congregation we hear. We were chosen by the people. Each of us has the right to propose the entire law. Each of us has the right to propose amendments and amendments to the law. The National Assembly is sovereign in law making. You can't limit us to that, if the government says you'd like to amend this law and only those members, and when it comes to the agenda to limit us that we have to stick to it. The government wants you, we want someone else. By voting, most will always decide what will change, but not to give an opportunity to vote on amendments that are not related to members of amendments to the law, that's what you said, Mrs. Kolundjia. Imagine the situation that, by amending and supplementing the law, we're attached to some member that the government wants to change, and they say great, we're going to accept that amendment. But because of the acceptance of the amendment, some other member of the government did not want to change. Then what are you going to say? Well, he can't, or you'll say he can. No, any member of the law we can change. There's no law on dog vaccination on the agenda, so let's propose an amendment to the fight against corruption. It's on the agenda to amend and supplement the Agency's law. In the morning, there was an amendment to the Traffic Safety Act. Everything can change. The supplement means you can add something to the law that doesn't exist. So we can amend the entire law on the agenda with amendments, and such amendments can't be legally impossible. They're legally possible. You're denying it. Look out, it's the government and parliament's relationship. How many times have you been angry because the media, which is under the control of your party, the ruling majority, have demoted and humiliated this parliament. Let me remind you recently when they reached out to Mr. Micunovic's informative group for some travel expenses, etc., you held an angry press conference. With this attitude towards the government, by kneeling attitude towards the government, you are essentially helping them to degrade parliament, and then you rebel when they drag you out for travel, champagne, cremation, and I don't know what. Don't repeat that sentence, we can't submit amendments to other members of the law except the government. You are indeed in subjection relations with us messengers. The government won't fail. You will refuse the amendments, but let's talk about them, give the MPs the opportunity to fix the law and beyond the framework that the government has established. It's our right. If we can propose laws, we can do that. I just can't believe you're repeating the formulations in this argument. This was the case with the Traffic Act – amendments are rejected for formal reasons because the government did not want to change. That's absolutely inadmissible. You are contributing to the degradation of this House. If it's some long-term goal of your coalition to introduce a presidential system, so that this is really a flow boiler, then fine. But I appeal to you to allow us to use our right given to us by the Constitution and by all other laws, and simply if you want to be that passing water, and to experience us from the opposition as a rock that reduces that water flow, I apologize, it is bad for you primarily, and also for the government, and then for the whole country.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43414	The time available to the LDP parliamentary group has been fully used. Right on the line, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43415	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there is this fundamental misunderstanding. So what we are discussing today and what we are submitting to the amendments is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, so it's not called the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. What is the subject of our debate is the law of change. Of course, every MP is the property and every parliamentary group to pass a new law, and to submit a proposal on amendments and members not covered by this draft law. This is called law and what we can react to with amendments is law. So those members of the law that exist in this proposal, that's what we can do. Unfortunately, that's because if it were different then we wouldn't actually have any rules, then we would have made a complete mess of this Parliament. No member of the Parliament shall be prevented from submitting a draft law amending and supplementing the laws of any law that exists and shall be covered by that law by any member of the law that he considers should be amended or amended. What we can really only submit amendments to is a bill that has so many members and only these members that exist here. It's not a courtship or a humiliating attitude towards the government. It is simply a rule that exists in all parliaments. So, in no parliament, when amendments to a law are on the agenda, it cannot react by amendment to members of the law that are not amended by the new draft law. It's a simple rule. (Zoran Ostojić: Only supplement. )
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43416	You have no right to a replica. You don't even have a right to a supplement. There's no such thing as a supplement. You can either get a replica or you can't get a replica. You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Ostojić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Ostojić gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1) because he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43417	Article 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, I'll let you know tomorrow. I'll give you examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43418	National MP, you must specify, MP, MP, you must state the content of the infringement of Article 104 and that I, as chairman, have committed an injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43419	Article 104. A violation of this House's dignity. Mrs. Kolundjia has brought out something that is not true, you have not responded. That's what happened. She says it never happened. What he said didn't happen was happening. I can't think of how many times we've changed the law, how many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43420	In order to endanger the dignity of the National Assembly, it is necessary for you to give an explanation in order to do so. The case you're talking about isn't reason enough. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? You don't want to. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that, first of all, we should get back to the beginning of this law, which is the etemological meaning of the word corruption. So "corruption" is the word of Latin origin and means corruption, meaning corruption. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, boast that you have passed several hundred laws, and I must remind you that more Roman lawyers and philosophers have said and there is one Latin sentiment on the subject, that "the most corrupt state in the world has the most laws", corruptists and re-public pluralae leges. This is what high school students learn in high school today, and you boast that you have passed a large number of laws, and we are now asking you, I'm sorry, what benefit the state of Serbia and its citizens have from these great laws. Never again laws in Serbia and never again corruption in that broad social sense of the word. The SRS cannot agree with what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said that this law is too strict. No, this law is too mild. This law exists in order to say, well, we have met another condition for joining the EU by having the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but essentially this law to no one in Serbia, and when I say no one in Serbia, I mean, of course, the powers of the ruling coalition, not only prevents them from performing more public functions, but also from using these public functions in the most drastic way possible. The best proof of that is your local election. There is no local choice, Mrs Malovic, which I can assure you, which was held in the Republic of Serbia, that we are not going further into the past, from 2008 until today, all of Serbia's extraordinary local elections, wherever they are held, are being held in completely irregular conditions. There's one phenomenon that this law doesn't even treat, which is the corruption of the electoral body. It is a phenomenon that parties to the ruling coalition, but also this newly formed European party, which boasts that Kosovo is not an obstacle to Serbia's entry into the EU, are being used by such means that absolutely no one in the EU is serving. If you give me an example of any EU member state where voters, to vote for the party they belong to, give money, artificial garbage, fishing sticks, Chinese mobile phones, where people cheat to vote for one political party by paved their way home or placed three days before the election. Or, Mrs. Malovic, you have an unprecedented example of the humiliation of people in Serbia where it's said -- yes, you'll get that 50 euros if you vote for this party or that party, but you have to go to the polling station with a mobile phone and take a picture of the ballot on your mobile phone. If I see you circled the number in front of the name of my political party, then you'll get that 50 euros. It's what you had in Vorbas, it's what you had in Ojacs, it's what you had in Bora, it's what you had in Negotin, it's what you had in Arangelovac. It's not just what the law says, it's whether there's a political will to enforce the law. And I'm sorry, who's gonna do it? The same ones who corrupt these people, who brutally abuse the fact that citizens in Serbia are having difficulty living, that there are many unemployed, that there are many social problems, and then those who are allegedly going to apply the Anti-Corruption Agency law on the day of the elections, or just before the elections, come to a community with trucks, with bangers, with money. You had Negota in the case, people were handing out New Market jeans and heating stoves, and that's why you won the election. And when the elections are over, there's not a single word about it, but -- I won 25%, I won 26%, etc. How did I win them? Does anyone in Serbia ask you that? No, I don't. So that's the basic problem the state of Serbia is facing. If you really intend to join the EU, it is not worth talking about a hundred times – we are for the European Union. Act a little bit like they do there. Tell me, in France, is it normal for a minister to share jeans in a municipality, like Toulouse, Nice, etc? Did you hear that happening somewhere? I didn't hear. Or that the German finance minister splits the stoves in Dresden, Bremen, Munich, etc.? I didn't hear. Maybe you heard? That's what happens in the state of Serbia. And it happens in such a naked way that it just cuts off with elemental morality. Mrs. Kolundjia completely overlooks one fact. By this law, Mrs. Kolundjia, you do not sanction, you stimulate people to engage in various types of corruption. Tell me, what is the penalty for those who, under the applicable Anti-Corruption Agency Act, have not declared themselves in their public office by 1 April 2010? Are there any sanctions for them? There isn't. Let's try to park in Belgrade where it's not allowed. You will pay a fine of 10,000 dinars. In the state of Serbia, the moral system is this: you can perform a hundred functions, you don't have to obey the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but don't accidentally park where you're not prescribed, you'll pay the fine immediately. Tell me, in such a system of moral values, who will deal with corruption? No one will. Under this variant of the law, after changes and additions, you extend the deadline from 1 April to 1 September. In the current law, by April 1st, the official was due to declare which function he is holding, and now until September 1st, he only needs to inform the Agency what functions he performs. That's ridiculous. What functions a public person performs, it is, Mrs. Kolundjia, a notor thing. Ms. Malovic knows what that means, notorious fact. It's a fact that doesn't prove itself, which is known to everyone. Everyone knows that today is July 21st, that the sun is shining, that it's not Sunday, etc. You're going to inform the Anti-Corruption Agency? I guess she knows that. Then what happens when you notify her? Then she estimates two things: whether there is a conflict between two public functions and whether there is a conflict of public functions and private interest. The law defines when there is a conflict of private interest and public function. This is what the law calls a conflict of interest and it is not disputed. What is controversial and what will in practice cause numerous abuses, is that the law has not defined in which situations conflict with two public functions. Because, in the amendments and additions to the Law, it says that the Agency estimates the situations in which there are conflicts of two public functions, but it doesn't say anything when there is a conflict, but the Agency will, from case to case, say, there is a conflict of two public functions, and there is no conflict here. As soon as you give the Agency the right to assess the conflict between two public functions or not, that means that there is no consistent application of the law, that means that in practice the law can be interpreted and applied from case to case. Instead of preventing corruption, the law will stimulate corruption. And then what happens when this special official by September 1st informs the Agency that he has two public functions? The Agency shall then assess whether the two public functions are in conflict, so if they are in conflict, it shall leave it 30 days to declare which public function is being retained, so if it is not declared, then the Agency shall carry out the procedure to determine that it cannot perform two functions. Do you know how long this will take? Until the next election. And this law will remain a dead letter in the paper. Now, in July 2010, if this is done as it's written, it's unlikely that anyone will be able to give up some of their public functions by the end of 2011, simply because they won't have time. This is going to take quite a while. Where are your guarantees that the principle will apply - one man, one function? That's what we pointed out in the principle debate. The foundation of modern democracy is the principle that one man can only have one voice, regardless of which nation, which religion, which is a race, which is half, how educated, how rich he is. Continuing, logically continuing, the philosophical continuation of this principle is the principle that one man can perform only one function except in rare exceptional situations. With us, what needs to be an exception becomes a rule. Under this amended law, there will be an exception that man can perform only one function, and the rule that he can perform two or more public functions. And then what He said will happen to us, as a rule, they chose madness. Then of the principle that one man can perform only one function will remain nothing. On the one hand, you provide a complete pathological cumulation of social and political power. You talked about possible abuses of public enterprises and not only that it is a possibility, it is a practice in Serbia. You know how to get votes today, by calling a public company director and saying – you will make so much and so much money for the elections, because we need so many and so many votes. In advance, an estimate of what the number of votes needed to win in a municipality is. We'll get one piece of the vote in a legal way, and most of it in an illegal way, by buying it, and everybody knows it. There are no MPs in the ruling coalition who do not know that they are doing it in Serbia, and it has already become a public secret. What the media is talking about, it's something else, but you who are going to vote for this bill, you know it's done. Maybe some of you took part in it. The question arises from which sources money comes from, from which sources the material values from which votes are purchased, better said people's souls today in Serbia. Do ministers give themselves 50 or 100 euros out of their pocket, separate their children from their mouths. Do limos buy these packages themselves, buy new market jeans and brownies or take money from state sources? It's taken from state sources. I doubt it's someone, so to speak, human beings doing all this for their own expense. There is no such thing in Serbia, at least I have not heard of any such minister, nor of any such MP, nor of any of the province's secretaries. Mrs Malovic, this law, among other things, amnesty, first of all, the province's MPs of the Democratic Party, G17 plus the Socialist Party of Serbia, who were obliged, since both the president and the province MPs are also to declare until April 1st what function they are holding. Of them 20 and something I don't know if there are two people who said here I give up one of my functions. You've even had examples where some powerful people in Vojvodina, let's say Goran Jesic, publicly praise what kind of law, what kind of anti-corruption agency, I'm going to be in the position that I've been elected by the citizens, I don't think of giving up any functions. Vojvodina, Mrs Malovic, is an additional problem because you have an institution in Vojvodina called the Investment Fund, the Capital Investment Fund in Novi Sad. Here you have such a situation that the presidents of the municipalities are members of the Management Board of the Capital Investment Fund. Of course, in principle, the shirt is closer than the coat, so rather a man will direct the funds into his community than another, even when there is no objective need for it. Not to mention how much money is being paid from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund to blow up the Democratic Party or the G17 plus to win the elections in some municipality. With my eyes I saw, talked, shook hands with a man, where we were, in Ojacs, when on Sunday, on the day of the election, the director of the Capital Investment Fund came from Novi Sad and boasted, behold, I came to help my own. Not to push their cars, not to visit voters, but to bring money. Mr. Novakovic says that's not true. Here, I'm saying it's true. Mrs. Malovic, these are all practical problems that exist today in Serbia. Are you going to solve them with this law? You won't. You may have a good will. I don't doubt your well-being, but you practice denial. I'm sorry Mrs. Hope Kolundji isn't here. She cited an example from English practice. I must give you an example from our practice, the political practice of the Kingdom of Serbia, when the opposition at the time could not hold back anything from the then Serbian Prime Minister, Nikola Pasic, in the way he runs his government, in the way he runs the state, or the then Kingdom of Serbia. But they caught up with one detail. Nikola Pasic had a troubled son, Radomir, Radu Pasic, and while the father was a national enthusiast, while fighting for the state of Serbia to be as strong and better as possible, son Radomir visited cafes in Skadarlia, he was also told to get drunk, and to gamble and that is the only thing the opposition then had to object to Nikola Pasic. Nobody's talking about it in Serbia today. Today it's a minor thing. Today is the elemental thing that official cars are used for private purposes. Today on election day you can see more official cars from Belgrade and Novi Sad than cars with registration marks and municipalities. The opposition in the Serbian parliament used to hold a debate with Nikola Pasic, if the wife of Nikola Pasic was allowed to drive in a state fijaker. And from there you have that famous anecdote, one MP to the opposition said – Mr. Pasic, your wife has no right to drive in a state fijar, and Baja is so wise, lucid, came out for a pay phone and said – you're right. Then a radical MP came out and said – you are wrong, Mr. Pasic's wife has the right to drive a state fiaker. He also said to him, "You are right. I mean, sometimes in Serbia, it was very much taken care of. Today you can spend millions of euros of people's money so nobody asks you why and why. Today, at a time of economic crisis, you can be so brutally misusing the state budget, the circuit budgets, the municipal budgets, the budgets of public enterprises, that it's a practice that I don't know if exists today in some of the most backward states, somewhere on distant meridians of Asia or Africa. These are the problems, Mrs. Malovic, which you will have to face. Or another example from a little closer to practice. You know that Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, current Serbian Prime Minister, came as the director of the Privatisation Agency from the post of CEO of the consulting house Ces Mekon. What happened after that? When he became the director of the Privatisation Agency, he concluded 14 consulting contracts with the company he worked in until then. The total value of the 455 million dinar contract. It's a time when the money was worth more than it's worth today. Is that man sanctioned? A debate was once held in the Serbian parliament whether the president's wife is allowed to drive a state-run fiyaker. Have you ever heard a debate here? Did Mirko Cvetkovic make a mistake? Did he break any legal or moral norms? No, that man was rewarded for becoming Minister of Finance after that, today he's Prime Minister. Then you from the ruling coalition are calling for practice from England, from who knows where. There's no need to go to England, it's a well-organized state, no doubt, but you had an example of former Serbia before Communism prevailed, where those principles also applied. Have you heard that someone once resented people like Nikola Pasic, like Milovan Milovanovic, like Stojan Proticade are immoral because they perform two, three or five functions. No, these people had no idea, although they had no Anti-Corruption Agency Act, to perform two or more functions. That's when it was known -- the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister and nothing else. He had to put his finger on his forehead before he put his wife in a drawer so the opposition wouldn't mind. Today you can be a minister, you can be a consultant, you can be an MP, you can be a director of a public firm, you can be a mayor, you can be a National MP, you can be a circuit MP, you can be a member of the Management Board of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, for all of you, your mother gave birth, you all know how to do great, you're very smart. And then the whole situation as a crown is being passed a law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is not sanctioned by people who are in an obvious way dealing with corruption in Serbia, but are given a broad amnesty. It doesn't matter that you didn't respect April 1st as a deadline. Gentlemen, you have a new deadline by September 1st, but not to declare which function you are holding, but only to inform the Notoric Things Agency of what functions you are doing. Now I ask you, Mrs Malovic, as a lawyer – what will happen to Serbian citizens who have not paid property tax, income tax, any other fiscal obligation to the state? Is there anyone in Serbia who will amnesty these citizens? No, you will send them tax collectors. Is it moral that one standard applies to an ordinary man, and other standards apply to public officials?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43422	15 minutes of authorised representative and 5 minutes and 50 seconds of parliamentary time have been used. National MPs Milica Radovic and Jovan Palalic were reported in the electronic system. Tell me which order, since I'm not sure? The People's MP, Jovan Palalic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43423	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly amazing what the reasons for the rejection of the amendment have come to us and how much of what we have received as an explanation for why the amendments refuse to comply with what is written in the Law. Explaining the rejection of this amendment, the amendment provides for exceptions for certain categories of officials from the application of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is contrary to the concept of the law. Each member of this proposed law provides for the exemption of individual categories of officials from the application of the law. We will begin with Article 11 - The Agency may, by means of a general act, establish other public functions that officials can perform without the consent of the Agency. Article 14: For certain categories of officials, i.e. for specific activities, the Director of the Agency may, by means of a general act, prescribe that no notification is necessary, etc. I really have to say that these formulations, I don't know who wrote this explanation, insult common sense when you look at the whole concept of the law. What we heard today, what we heard, and when it was a principle debate, today are again incredible explanations, I am sorry that Mrs. Kolundjia is not here, how this law is defended and what are all these arguments to defend this law in the National Assembly. We've heard an incredible thing, that there's no conflict of public and public interest, that it's simply not possible to determine, so these are general and inaccurate formulations. Gentlemen, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of what public functions individual officials cannot perform if they are on one. Is the public office a People's MP? Is the public function a circuit MP? Is the public office a committee member? Is the public office the executive power of the Republic of Serbia? Is the public office of the judiciary? If the Constitution says there is a conflict of interest and does not allow the accumulation of public and public functions, we here today listen to the justification of the fact that someone performs several functions and that it is not a conflict of interest, that it is not a accumulation of functions. It's just amazing what we're going to hear in this National Assembly and ignore constitutional norm, specifically Article 102. The Constitution. The basic problem of this law is its inaccuracy, and inaccuracy is solved by giving the Anti-Corruption Agency the opportunity to fill this inaccuracy with its interpretations. Then we get into one problem, and now I'm asking you -- what this interpretation is going to look like, and, above all, whether this kind of solution is the result of what happened in the preparations for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia's solution. Today, all of us, as members of the Legislative Assembly, have received the Constitutional Court's decision, which has effectively suspended the execution of all those solutions, where the Constitutional Court says the disputed legal interpretation of Article 82 is by the Agency. The Constitutional Court again says the Agency has reached a conclusion on granting consent which is also controversial. The Constitutional Court is talking about controversial interpretations and the real problem, and then this gives the Agency a broad right to interpret the law. I think the legislator has indeed made a huge problem, because it is now a matter of how and how the Agency will interpret these provisions and whether we will now have a series of disputes before the Constitutional Court over such an interpretation as this, and in the extreme line, whether such a large discretionary law given to the Agency is given the possibility of a large number of officials being placed in a position to perform several functions. This, unfortunately, is what I have to say, is a law that justifies the accumulation of functions. This is quite the opposite of what was said in October 2008, when there was an attitude here that would prevent any possible accumulation of functions. The only way to solve the problems that will only be created in practice, much bigger than they have been so far, is to very precisely define which functions cannot be compatible. You avoided it and went one step backwards, even in relation to the solution from the basic text. Just because you haven't figured it out, we'll find ourselves in trouble, and we'll find a major dispute by the citizens. The best solution is to get the law back to work and to be very precise – and those functions cannot be done together. There is no Anti-Corruption Agency that has any authority to interpret. A very narrow interpretation of this law requires. We will thus prevent the accumulation of functions and thus be able to say that this law is fully applied in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm so afraid that we're going into one period where in no way are we going to be able to justify everything that we've been saying here, which is that it's going towards discharging function and, above all, to prevent potential opportunities to come into a position to carry out and achieve corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43424	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that we are discussing today is, unfortunately, another one in a series of laws that the government has passed that are not applied. This is today one of the most important points of the agenda in this session of the Assembly, but at the same time this is one of the worst laws this Assembly has passed. He's full of confusing provisions, he's full of simple inaccuracies, misunderstandings. He is, unfortunately, qualified as a law that we can really say, deserves to return to the Proposer and be referred to a valid text again in front of us to take our stand on him. How much of the confusing provisions themselves in this law are contained, unclear, best confirmed by the fact that the amendments that we tabled on this bill and the absence of any possibility for the legislator to understand the essence of the amendment. I have to show my surprise that today, when we got the government's opinion, I'm very surprised that no amendment, and even the one that was technically, was accepted. Of course, we didn't expect any fundamental amendments to be accepted, but at least the one technically, there was a basis for that. How confused is the law I'll best show if I go through a few provisions of this law. Right at the beginning, it is Article 15, where it is said that the Director of the Agency gives an opinion and instructions for the implementation of this law. Is that normal? I guess it's the intensity of every lawmaker to be, in addition to being meaningful, and this is not, to be clear, to avoid a variety of interpretations that may sometimes be so difficult to bring the law into question, as is the case with this law. I can interpret this provision in two ways. In one way, that the proposer himself realized how confused this law was, that he had to provide for such a provision, and the other reason why I see it, and why it is envisaged, is to transfer responsibility to the Director of the Agency himself, and that he decides whether to, apologize for the expression, but a small profiteer, with a huge blackmailing potential, this law applies. This is a completely pointless provision, but unfortunately it's not the only one. Furthermore, if we go according to the very text of the law, we will encounter Article 28 immediately. It's a bill of law. And in the principle debate, I was saying that this is a key member, according to the DSS, which, contrary to the Constitution, is legalized by conflict of interest. The primary intention of this Article 28 is to enable the province's MPs to perform all other functions, except for the function provided for in the Constitution, other than the function of the MP. This only creates an illusion that something in Vojvodina is being solved. This only creates an illusion that they are not in conflict of interest. I propose the law by this provision clearly stands aside from the violation of the Constitution itself. I must say that this Article 28 states in paragraph 2 that the official elected to a public office directly from the citizens may, without the consent of the Agency, perform more public functions to which it is elected directly from the citizens, except in cases of incompatibility established by the Constitution. Again, since it was obviously not very clear, there are only four positions in the constitutional and legal system of Serbia in which citizens are elected, i.e. officials, directly from the citizens themselves. It is a committeeman, a circuit MP, a People's MP and a President of the Republic. The Constitution treats only one thing, it calls for a MP. The other functions do not touch, but allow the law itself to regulate this matter. The legislator, or legislator of the law, disowns these possibilities, contrary to the Constitution. Now we have a situation that this situation is not resolved. In fact, we have neither in this law nor in the Constitution itself the possibility of predicting what situations these are that a single official is under conflict of interest. I am a member of the Constitution, I think this is about Article 6, predicting that conflict of interest regulates both the Constitution and the law. What law regulates conflict of interest? It's not the one we bring today, because he's only referring to something that's already regulated by the Constitution itself. I must point out that in practice, we have a situation that no member of the province is a member of the Parliament. There is obviously a condition fully met, but there are facts that suggest that most of the province's MPs are in conflict of interest because they are in many functions in the executive government. I'm thinking primarily of the regional secretaries here, I'm thinking of the chairman of the boards of directors of various public enterprises, I mean, primarily, members of the boards of directors. What's going on with them? Does this law, which we are discussing today, speak of them? In my opinion, absolutely not, and I'd like to hear the opposite. Furthermore, we are going to the next position of Article 11, where Article 2 says that the functioner who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another function and apparently intends to perform more functions, is now asking the Agency to agree on such a thing, but at the moment that he has already stepped in. So we have a situation where he's already doing two functions and the law predicts that possibility. Was it not normal for him to agree whether he would enter into that function to seek before the very entry into office? In such a provision, it would then be true that the legislator has a clear desire and aim to prevent the accumulation of functions, namely to prevent a potential conflict of interest. That gave up, it no longer exists in the law as a possibility. Next, attitude 8. I must refer to the position of the 7th same member, where he says that the functionor who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function contrary to the provisions of this law, the later function ceases by force of the law. The next point is that this previous position is being elaborated. Is it even normal for him to elaborate when the attitude is completely clear? Here it is now deviating from the norm that the later function on which the official entered ceases under the law, it is already said that the body chosen by the official is making a decision on whether he is in conflict of interest. The question of the very legal nature of such a decision is raised. It can only be a declarative character and say that by the force of the law it stops, not a new decision being made, because then a completely previous attitude seems nothing. Of course, the very essence of this law is played out by giving the Director of the Agency, not the Agency itself, the sublegislative acts the opportunity to count all the public functions that the functionor performs without the consent of the Agency. Isn't it the very essence of the law that he foresees the possibility of a conflict of interest, of deaccumulating functions, and not of rewarding him yet because the Agency will deny him the right to perform a function? We are now coming up with that key member who has been said a lot today, which is a member of 82, who is proposing retroactive change. The member is changing, more specifically the one who was very clear and who predicted that by April 1st, officials, who are in an obvious conflict of interest, must opt for the function they will retain, or that they will give up. No one's done it, she's done a few functioners. Of course, what's scariest, no one's ever answered for it, no one's been sanctioned for anything like that. The second situation is now forecasted, the subsequent deadline of September 1st is set, but not that they give up the functions considered and that everyone knows are in conflict of interest, but that provides for a new deadline for the Agency itself, which the functions do not know. I will remind the minister of justice that each official is obliged to state what function he performs when reporting on his property. So the Agency already has the information on which functions the functioner is located. Why play the very essence of the law? What the proposer of this law wanted to achieve, it is clear to all of us, and we all know it, but let us not fool ourselves and that anyone, both by the ruling coalition and by the minister, is in any way defending any provision of this law, because it is completely undefense. Finally, to say that Article 82, whose retroactive change is required, does not comply with Article 197(2). The Constitution, which provides that certain provisions of the law may have a return fact only in the situation where there is a legitimate general interest and where it is established when the law itself is adopted. When the law was passed, there was no such reason, because it was clear, and each of us felt that it would be an obligation on April 1st when we would end up with a story of conflict of interest. Now this provision, which is provided here, and by prescribing that member, the authority of the Agency itself is significantly violated, not to say that it has completely disappeared. She wasn't able, and she didn't have the strength to implement this law in action, I'm primarily thinking about this provision, so this provision gives her another chance. It's artificially returned to authority. The Agency's authority, by not implementing this member, is practically lost. I will call on another member, who also deserves a comment, which is Article 56, where it is said that a civil servant can only file a report to the Agency if he is in good faith and if he rightly believes that there is corruption in the body in which he works. In this way, in fact, the persons working in the body are prevented from filing a criminal report, i.e. to initiate the procedure. Why am I saying this? Because it is perfectly clear that such a discriminatory attitude will have the fear of ever meeting the conditions to file criminal charges in good faith and that there is a legitimate belief that corruption itself exists. At the very least, who is the one who assesses whether these conditions have been met? I think this provision that, unfortunately, should not have stood in this law, as I have stated in other provisions of the law. This, as I said, is a very bad law that encourages corruption, which does not prevent it, and we have to remember that only tolerating conflict of interest represents, unfortunately, the foundation of corruption itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43426	13:30 minutes have been used for the authority of the representative. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic has the word, 55 seconds from the time of the authorised representative and the total time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43427	I've been reported since Mrs. Hope Kolundji's announcement, because I want to comment on her way, and I suppose the rest of the ruling majority, about the treatment of the legal acts that are being discussed here and the amendment interventions on them. So, this law will pass, but some of the following will come, and again, the question will be asked what MPs have the right to intervene when the government, as someone who, according to the records you have in the procedure, proposes 90% of those laws that you represent to the public, which we had the opportunity to consider here. Not one single proposal, apart from the ruling majority MPs, and in agreement with the government, has been discussed in this house. So the right of MPs to propose laws and other acts is undeniable on paper, in practice it is not applied and let someone say that I exaggerate when I say that a monarchy is temporarily formed here, in which 126 hands can do anything, and those who do not have that majority cannot even put a legal project on the agenda. This means that such a way is imposed on topics of conversation, not only by laws, but when you tell us that we can only react to those members of the law that the government has proposed to change, you also impose on us a topic of conversation. The limitation of topics for discussion exists in the press, in all other media, so is the Assembly that place to limit the number of topics to be discussed? What's the point of justice? By imposing the necessary rules, otherwise it would be chaos. I was quoting literally Mrs. Kolundji. I'm making the only possible conclusion out of it. Or that MPs are obstructing the submission of amendments to all possible members of the law that is changing or supplementing, instead of just the ones you're proposing, because at least they're not smart enough, so they just want to talk about everything. Or, another possible conclusion, that the laws absolutely do not work, and that when you submit a proposal to amend and supplement, we will talk about every member of the law that this law has, for example, between one and 239 members. You have to admit, in those extremes, it's not the point. Neither we are prepared for obstruction, nor are we unaware of the situation we are in, nor are the laws to this extent completely bad that we should intervene on every member of the law. It's really not right for a mockery to be thrown out like that and cartoonally paint our efforts to fix the laws that appear in this procedure. I must admit that this way of treating legal procedures is being questioned by the creation of a common capacity for changing this state, the administrative which has this assembly, the political one, and that is all of us here, and the intellectual potentials that this state has. What is it for you in the Rules of Procedure, then, that provision of public hearing, which is, in fact, a public debate, where prominent individuals are placed in a position to help make the law? Where is all the energy that exists in this country and that should lead to positive changes, if there is the only promoter of government here, and MPs can only intervene on the members of the law that the government wants and with the time limits that have been brought to perfection that in seconds we have to keep track of what we're saying? I believe that's not the point. If you do, you'll pay the price for it. What I would like to conclude about Article 82, which the SNS has submitted, and Article 28, which is also referred to as Article 11 and focusing this law on the position of the Director of the Agency and its deputy, which, by the way, is, by the way, to be said, in a deep conflict of interest, because he took severance from the PIO fund, which there is a record, and then he got a job as a deputy, it may also be the result of the conflict currently with the Director, but that is not important, this accumulation of functions is not the only problem of conflict of interest. But one thing you should know, we stand for the principle of one man - one function. Cumulation is a systemic possibility for corruption, for setting up jobs, for concealing interest and for misuse of public interest for private purposes. Under two, only the congregation, this home alone can pass a regulation that obliges someone to perform another function. You remember Mr. Skundric's example. It is perfectly justified then that Ivica Dacic said – a man is legally obliged to act as speaker of the assembly, and now they attribute to him that he is in conflict of interest. So, only the Assembly has the power to bring in what function one can do under obligation. There are no further sublegal or other acts that can make this cumulation. The second function approval, if its performance cannot be provided in any other way, shall be carried out in the manner that we have proposed to you an exception in Article 82. Why just such an exception? I can't combine incompatible functions, but you can't say, you're very nice to use an explanation that the SNS has been publicly promoting for two days, that in conflict of interest there's a council member in some small place and whoever's on the school board. What kind of conflict of interest is there? But in Belgrade, it is something different, because in Belgrade, a member of the school board is appointed City Assembly, and the committee is appointed in another procedure as someone who is directly elected by people who need to perform a function. Of the 37 amendments you have refused, 15 have submitted a great deal of effort, trying to prevent you from having positive regulations and exceptions, which are needed when respected professors, wise people with a lot of experience work, for example in state institutions or college, should be members of something that can be treated by conflict of interest, or cumulation of functions. It is necessary that not the Director, but that the Committee adopts an opinion, i.e. whether that is acceptable. It's all the philosophy that could be solved by the amendments to this law, for which you have shown no good intentions, no good will. This law is worse than the basic law itself. This law has inherited several anti-corruption projects that can come down to one sentence: you create conditions for corruption, and then you establish organs and bodies to fight corruption, and that's the burden of citizens. May it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43428	Seven minutes and 25 seconds of the parliamentary group's time were used and a total time of authorised representatives was used, and 55 seconds had time for authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else answering for a word in the discussion in detail on the proposal to add a new member? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Sasa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted concerns the definition of conflict of interest and is contained in Article 1. The bill adds Article 2 which reads that the 6th indent is changed and reads as 'Succab of interest' is a situation in which the official has a private interest or other function, which may affect or appear to affect the behaviour of officials in the exercise of public office, i.e. an official duty in a way that threatens the public interest, or the rights and freedoms and the legitimate interest of citizens and legal persons. ''What we wanted was for this proposed amendment to change practically the definition of a conflict of interest in Article 2's indent. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, in order to bring it in line with Article 6(1). The Constitution. The current text of point 6 does not cover a conflict of interest that arises because of the second function, although it is defined by Article 6 as I said, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is also not a threat to the rights and freedom of citizens as a forbidden consequence of conflict of interest, but only of public interest, so the provision is complemented in this respect, which is in fact in line with international conventions. I have to supplement Mrs. Jorgenko Tabakovic, and in fact, it complements the government through an explanation for the refusal of this amendment and argues that the opposition here is actually right when it has the right to change members who are not proposed by the law on amendments and additions to the law. In particular, the argument states that the amendment refers to an indent not covered by the draft law, point. So it's a finding. However, the Government then provided further reasons not to accept the amendment for the reasons it considers the solution to Article 2(6). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which sets out meaning, etc., sufficiently clearly and precisely in line with international conventions in this area. The government recognises the right of MPs to amend, or to propose, I suppose that you disagree, but certainly the Government has delivered the opinion that the amendment does not accept for certain reasons, but certainly recognises the right of MPs to propose an amendment and addition of members of the law which is not proposed by the law on amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43430	Thirty seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43431	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, a debate in particular. New Serbia has submitted several amendments, but since many representatives of other political parties have been involved at the very beginning, they are practically members of a member and are forced to interpret it that way. There is a lot of contradiction and a simple amendment to the amendment, the essence could not be clear to the citizens of Serbia. I'm sure, I must say figuratively, we artists have one good idea all together, one good law, which in principle, with some minor changes in 2008, we tried to fix with amendments, practically ruin at the beginning. The Anti-Corruption Agency, such a proposal to amend the law, was virtually devalued at the very beginning. I'll ask one question I haven't heard one of my colleagues ask. Would any of the public officials be sanctioned if he hadn't attached his property card in time? Why, Madam Minister, why would someone be sanctioned if these people who had until April 1st to declare one of the functions would not be sanctioned, as Mr Martinovic said, a period of two three months has passed and we are passing the law. I'd be wise enough to be on the opposite side to make this kind of amendment to the law on March 21st. The whole last year she passed in the story of the Agency getting ready, the Agency's starting to work, the Agency's going to be rigorous. Since the Agency has the right, in practice even very harsh sanctions against someone who has failed to file an property card, even a ban on political activity in some other public functions at some point, I ask the question: until this amendment to the law will anyone be sanctioned? What about the period April, May, June and these 20 days of July? That's the basic question. Cosmetics is now whether they will plead or not, as my colleagues have said, they will now have until September only to report all of their own, so that deadline will of course be very long, that the Agency will plead and likely come up with some elections. Therefore, the purpose of the Agency is unthinkable. This is not good, especially if one representative of the Agency, chosen practically by the Assembly, has been engaged in controversy for days, I think, established, that public officials in Vojvodina and some in Serbia are not able to perform two public functions from April 1st and that they have to declare themselves. If we have chosen this man here, we should respect his opinion, and these very changes of laws practically put a patch on his mouth, that he simply must remain silent in the future, otherwise quickly, if he opposes a ruling coalition or a political party, of some political interest, there will be a change of law, so he better be quiet. My basic question is, the public function is a public function, whether someone has been chosen by a proportional system or by a majority system, it is completely irrelevant to the situation itself or to the fact of public function. Why would someone, say tomorrow, say those mayors around whom it was disputed, why would they now have to give up some functions just because they were chosen by a proportional system, and someone chosen by a majority system will be able to retain their right? What's the difference in such public functions? Public function is a public function. I ask the question, would any of the citizens of Vojvodina vote for these people by the majority system if he knew that people would be so unscrupulous and that they could have two or three functions? Would they be chosen? Would they be chosen to have so many functions and not be able to devote so much to their city if they were in the Vojvodina Parliament or vice versa? Probably so they wouldn't be chosen. Therefore, we must primarily respect the citizens of Serbia who choose one way or another. We also had a majority system for selecting mayors, and when it seemed to someone not good, because in many cities perhaps some parties, particularly in the King's President, the late Dr Milos Babic, won 75% of the votes of the Kingdom citizens, and we, as New Serbia, had only three council members. Come on, faster or better, I'm not saying it's because of the Kings, but because of some other parties that have realized that it's very dangerous, let's go faster or better to return the proportional system, maybe we'll have more chances. On a roundtable with Milan Markovic, Minister, last year we had a sharp controversy at the Sava Center about it. Personally, I think the mayors should be elected by the majority system, because they represent cities. Whether all the presidents of the municipalities should be elected, we can leverage that, these are some smaller environments, etc., but the mayors absolutely have to be in the majority system because they are big cities and they need people to declare themselves to the authentic representative who is going to represent this great city. So, I think it's been a long time since October 2008 and certainly some amendments that the NS submitted, as I said in the debate in principle, had they been accepted, we would not have had these amendments and additions to this law today. I think it was easy at that point, that on April 1, 2010, he would never come. Now, you see how time goes by quickly, and then because of this kind of illogicality, we have to burden ourselves and the citizens of Serbia to change something in principle that we all said was good, that Serbia would get one of these laws, that it was good to practice a public function and that there could be no more public functions. Of course, as colleagues have said, there are some illogicalities, whether there is someone on the school board or in some other function, whether it is a conflict of interest. You see, Madam Minister, I believe that a great conflict of interest is nothing personal, when you, not you, but when one of the representatives of the MPs, is the chairman of the Justice Committee, so he's a representative, and that's what we said when we talked about the High Council of the Judiciary, when he's doing the job of attorneys, when he directly influences the choice of judges or prosecutors in this country. For me it is a conflict of interest, and an elegant way to get out of this is to freeze your status in that period if you want to perform so many functions and directly choose judges in the country. If we're about to pass some law on attorneyship or anything, that the judge in his town was a judge, he won't be able to perform his duty for three years or five years, compare me with the weight of that conflict of interest and the one I'm talking about. I'm not saying that there are any abuses, etc., I don't mean to say, but I think it would be natural, because I don't see any difference between you and Mr. Bosko Ristic, that you can't be a lawyer at this point. That's on the same basis, you can be a minister, if you're completely out of authority, if you're impartial and you can do that job, be a minister, because you're also a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Of course, you're not in it, but I'm giving you one comparison, and I'm sure this is for some thinking in the future. Of course, when we talk about the directors of the Agency, it's completely bothering me, I have to admit, this possibility that the board now chooses three members, or some three candidates to elect a director, that the director chooses his main associate from that post. You know what, you didn't invent hot water. That kind of thing has already been seen in the government, in those who advertise competitions, staff service or whatever it's called, no matter. They also conduct a competition in the government, propose three candidates and then the government sets up a director or someone put up a face. It's not a newspaper. I just don't see the reason, and even then when we passed this law, I made one proposal with the amendment, so it would be perfectly logical for the deputy director, I really remember, that amendment was to be made out of the ranks of the opposition. That the opposition proposes, not to be a party, but to have the opposition propose that deputy director, because it would be a mutually controlled function of both the director and the deputy director of the Agency. That would make sense, and one law like that would all support it. When a certain period of time goes by, it is evident that some such proposals should be accepted in the future, because the agency is in the interest of all, in the interests of Serbian citizens and it is normal for the director to have tomorrow on the Committee's proposal, that the same on the opposition's proposal as the deputy. It's one mutual control function. I don't see anything wrong with that. Of course, the law would have to change, the conditions changed, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43432	National MP, the time available to your MP group has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43433	Madam Minister, therefore, to Article 3 or Article 7, we have submitted an amendment. The promoter wrote: "The Agency's Board elects and resolves the Agency's director, decides to increase the director's salary". We thought this "determining to increase the director's salary" had to be deleted. I'll explain why we thought that. The legislator, or the Serbian government, in this case, has somehow confused her mind, forgotten the situation in Serbia and the political situation, and particularly economic and social, which can indeed be summed up in three words – poverty, poverty, poverty. And on the other hand, waste wherever it may be. That offends the citizens of Serbia, and there is something to be said about it. Almost a million people in this country are unemployed. In the term of office of this government, 158,000 people were out of work. The unemployment rate is 40%. Salaries and pensions, their value keeps falling, and they can't even cover the basic costs of Serbian citizens. We don't have the economy. Each ten Serbian citizen is extremely poor, Madam Minister. The bill, further, contains a provision that clearly speaks about how high the Agency's salary should be and this is said to be the level of the Supreme Court's salary. It's a pretty high salary, and it really doesn't make sense to leave that salary even bigger because you've left the possibility to increase even after 20%. This is one story and one position from which you can look, but on the other hand, if you look at things, they become even more complicated. The way you reduce the authority, influence and jobs of the Agency and the Director of the Agency, it's so down and it's so much compared to how much you increase his salary. The less influence, the less power, the less the chance of harming something the government wants, the more his salary increases and you keep doing it. The government obviously does not choose the means to keep independent and regulatory bodies under its control. This is one way, a very high salary, a great opportunity to decide on its associates, given all other options, except for the one that made the Agency. This is one of the baits someone might catch on. If I were right, here is a part of Mrs. Zorana Markovic's interview with the director of the Agency, who says: Regardless of the misunderstandings – and these are the misunderstandings explained by Secretary of State Homen, who explains everything much better than Mrs. Minister, who knows or doesn't know, but he likes to explain it – which occurred, Agency Director Zorana Markovic was declared not to sabotage this institution, and this says very subtlely, deliberately speaking subtlely. The state can already pass a law tomorrow that abolishes the Agency, but for now, the emphasis is on "for now", showing willingness to co-operate.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43434	A minute and 30 seconds of MP time has been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment, or amendment of the SNS parliamentary group, also refers to Article 3. The bill, which we propose to amend it, reads: 'In Article 7 after the word 'Agency Committee', the words 'gives an opinion and instructions for the implementation of this law' are added. Article 3 The draft law, which provides for the Agency's decision to pay the Agency's Director's salary, is in fact in a conflict with Article 22 of the applicable law, as Article 1 of that Article lays down the amount of salary of the Agency's director. The question arises – is it legally possible, and I claim that it is not, that the salary is determined by law and that at the same time the board of directors is empowered to determine that same salary? Was there at all a purpose for any pay to be regulated by law, and then for the board of directors or any other body to change that same director’s salary already laid down by law? At the same time, the amendment proposes that the Agency's Committee gives opinions and instructions for the implementation of this law, because the applicable text of the law did not explicitly exist in the work of any body of the Agency. Article 3 The bill proposes that this authority be exercised by the Director of the Agency, but this is not acceptable because of the conflict of interest, as the Director makes decisions on violations of the law and makes measures, so he cannot give his opinion and instructions for the application of the same law at the same time, because he would thus give himself an opinion and instruction that would serve him as the basis for the decision. As the Committee conducts the selection of directors and controls his work, we believe that the Committee should give the director instructions for work. Otherwise, when deciding on issues under its jurisdiction, the Committee would have to act on the views and practically as directed by the Director.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43436	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 6th amendment. The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43437	Ladies and gentlemen, the SNS has filed a series of amendments that are trying to get the information given by this law to the Agency's director to be introduced in some order. My amendment is a logical sequel to what my colleague just said. It refers to the Director's right to give an opinion and instructions for the implementation of this law. We are in a situation where someone who makes decisions about breaking the law and makes certain decisions about whether a law is broken or not, or whether there is a conflict of interest or not. In this context, an entirely illogical norm and a SNS advocated that the opinion and instructions for law enforcement were a work to be done by the Agency's Committee. Since the Agency’s Committee is in fact running the Agency’s own policy, it makes sure that legal norms are respected, so it has competences in terms of the Director’s resolution, it is normal to give its opinion, not to the Agency’s director, to the full, and also to the way in which a law is to be implemented. In this way, the Director of the Agency would in fact be in a specific conflict of interest, as it also expresses sanctions on the basis of that opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43438	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43439	So, we have submitted an amendment to article 15 of the old law, this is Article 6 of your amendment and supplementation proposal. You say, "The director represents the Agency, manages the work, organises and secures the legal and effective conduct of the Agency's affairs, makes decisions on the violation of this law, says measures," and then you say, "it gives an opinion and instructions for the implementation of this law". That is what the Democratic Party of Serbia doesn't think should stand in this article, in this law, and we thought this should be deleted. In that sense, there goes our amendment. So, why did we think it was supposed to be erased? If the law is clear, if it's precise, if the definitions are clear, then there's no need for that kind of interpretation. Why would you interpret something that's completely clear? By what you wrote, you have just confirmed what the opposition is telling you during the principle debate, and today, that your law is full of fine literary words, the composition of the law, and not the law, inaccurate, undefined, completely corrupt. Why is he like that? Well, it's because you're giving an opportunity to interpret it, and it's going to be interpreted the way you're looking for the Agency to do it. That's the point. I can't believe someone can't write one clear law. You know, I'm not really a lawyer, and I'm not really into a lot of legal stuff right now, and somehow my first reading is vague, and then I'm trying to translate it into a normal life, so I see what it's all about. If you as an expert, as a layman, can follow the law, then why should the Agency's director interpret something if the law is clear? So the bottom line of the whole story is that you're deliberately doing this law to make it unclear. I'd like you to interpret one thing from me, to get an answer, because a few times it comes to me on the phone message saying that I'm asking the minister to interpret only one thing -- is it corruption that if the parent has one minister, in a very short time, the house, the fences, the gardens, the paths and the access roads are arranged, and then the workers of "Belgrade Roads" are constantly working on the arrangements of the lawns? Just like that, I may have used my right as a MP, they say they can't come to you and beg you to help them.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43440	40 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? If not, the 9th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43441	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Madam Minister, giving authority to the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency to choose and resolve the deputy director is not acceptable. As a result, Serbia's SNS has advanced with this amendment and has proposed to delete Article 9. A bill that defines this procedure. In particular, the Deputy Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency shall have the same powers and responsibilities when replacing the Director, which is particularly important in the case of any longer absence of the Director of the Agency from work. A provision authorising the Director to resolve the deputy may, in practice and the application of this law, create major problems. A possible example is the situation when a procedure for the discharge of the Director of the Agency is launched, and if that Director would, prior to his discharge, resolve his deputy, then the Agency would not have a designated person authorised to enforce the law until the end of the selection process of the new Director of the Agency. In that case, we should probably look for an impromptu solution in the form of the appointment of officials, and the law does not recognise such a situation, nor does it prescribe the possibility and procedure of appointment of perpetrators of duties. The power of directors to make the selection of executive workers is acceptable only when it comes to assistant directors, because they are not in a position to manage the authorities independently, but only do part of the tasks under the management of the directors. The answer to Mrs. Pesic's question earlier, that there are no specified criteria for selecting deputy directors or the way in which exactly three names came up is possible again from a lottery drum, as you provided for such a choice to be a choice of judicial skills in a law that this assembly adopted a few months ago. In order not to be in a position to discuss in a regular autumn session a new draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, I urge you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43442	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 9(2). We suggest that it be the Agency's board of directors who chooses the deputy director. In doing so, we were guided by the principle of impartiality, objectivity and one principle adopted in the Law on State Administration, which is that the National Assembly is elected by the Minister, and that the Secretary of State, that is what was once called the Deputy Minister, is being appointed by the Government. As the State Secretary, or Deputy Minister, does not appoint a minister, but is appointed by the Government, so a collective body, then we have managed and proposed an amendment to replace the Director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or to appoint the Agency's Committee. We believe that this prevents or largely prevents any bias, subjectivity. It eliminates the possibility to a large extent of any abuse. So, the Agency's Committee as one collective body should, in the SRS' view, when we already have this institution called the Anti-Corruption Agency, set up a director and resolve it and also appoint and resolve the deputy director. Because, by nature of things, the deputy director, deputy minister, the deputy of any official, is someone who performs the same powers as that official in situations where this functioner, for objective reasons, is unable to perform his function. It is therefore very important to take away the director's excessive powers, to prevent the director from setting up his own man, conditionally speaking. Of course, there are absolutely no guarantees for objectivity either when it comes to the Agency's Committee, but we have more guarantees than if the right is entrusted to one man, which is the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43444	Thank you. A 15-second parliamentary group has been used. National MPs Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 9th amendment together. The word has an MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43445	Obviously, this Article 9, which amends Article 21 of the existing Agency Act, has caused most MPs the same reaction, which is that we believe that the deputy director should still be elected by the Agency's Committee. My colleagues have stated a number of reasons why it is not good to give the Director of the Agency and this authority to him or she choose, because we know who our director is, and our first associate and the person who is and the deputy, so in case the Director can't perform at some point the function he is changing. It is a much better solution for the Agency's Committee to do so and since this is such an agency that should be doing some "hard" work, it is not good that it is also the first associate at the request of the director. To say that the director and deputy director should essentially control each other. What is unusual and ironic in reasons why the amendment is rejected, that it is not the director who chooses on the basis of a list that will determine the Committee of three candidates, but that it should be done by the Agency, so here the bill promoter says in an explanation why this is refused to keep the Agency's board of directors in the selection process in the proposed manner, except that the Director of the Agency is empowered to choose a deputy This is really a little ironic, not to say, a rude explanation. You say that, my God, the Agency retains jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction consists of making a list of three candidates. I mean, it could probably be a secretary or a secretary who works with that board to do that, to make a list of three candidates. So you're practically taking away that responsibility from the Committee, and we think it's much better for a body consisting of a number of members to choose a deputy, not for a director to choose his first associate in his own way. So, when it's that public ad, you can also publish a picture that simply that person who's going to be a deputy knows how to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43446	45 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 9(3) is fully in line with and a logical trail of amendments submitted by Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, also on behalf of the SRS, to Article 9(2) where he proposes that, instead of the director, the deputy director should be elected by the Committee. According to Article 3(3), the deputy director is authorised by the Director. I suggested that the Agency's Committee be dismissed by the Director. However, Mrs. Malovic, I thought when you, on behalf of the Government here, represented the Law on Judicial Experts, that this was the last bad law that you, as a person with personal professional qualities at a certain level, were the last unserious law that you would represent, however, that law against these flowers was. I recall Mr Velimir Ilic, my colleague, who, when this law was discussed in principle, told you to resign. Now I'm going to stand up to him, so I'm going to ask you not to resign until the entire government resigns because every next minister would be worse, that's been showing us practice since 2000 and so on. So stay here while your colleagues are here. This law is so pointless that I don't know how and how you can say one commendable word about this law. Let me start with one simple question. I expected when this was on the agenda that we would discuss some names here, some persons, some people, some politicians, some officials who have violated the law so far. How do you cover the violation of this law from 1 April to this day, that is, until this law enters into force, that is, by 1 September 2010? Of course, you don't have a good answer, you don't have any answer. But, as one journalist, I don't politically like the country he's from, but that's Walter Lyman, he said -- democracy is and too serious to offer to the people. I can say, money or money is too serious for them to be in the people, too. All of this, changing and supplementing this law, is actually done because of a certain number of people. Someone said that at this point we have about 1,800 to 1,900 persons who are in conflict of interest, who simultaneously perform more functions, but many are irrelevant and irrelevant. I don't mean to underestimate it, but a number of colleagues who in their discussion wanted to degrade the current provisions of this law, so I said, well, there's a councilman and someone who's a member of the school board, come on, these people and they can't break it that much. Someone here, if it isn't Mrs. Hope Kolundzija, said – the conflict of public interest or the danger of corruption does not exist in some political functions, but in public enterprises. We're joining that. What influence can one mayor or several mayors who are also MPs, and we know that local self-government is the founder of a public enterprise at that local level? There are many reasons why we should have discussed here how and how to sanction those who did not comply with the provisions of this law, and we are now talking about how and how to play it. Instead of being held in the Agency by anti-corruption fighters, here is Article 9 that allows us to be there for corruption fighters. It couldn't be the Agency at all, and her director in particular, that person who can decide if anyone is in conflict of interest. That should have been specified and defined by law, and the Agency should have done the technical part of the job. As long as you drag and divorce this law, it also points to the fact that it takes a double decision to have someone in conflict of interest. It should first be established by the Agency, and then by the body choosing it to identify who is the holder of a particular function whether it is in conflict of interest or not. When we had the amendment on the agenda today regarding road safety and when it was proposed to keep the vehicle for three minutes, counterpart Nemanja Sarovic suggested that time from three increase to five minutes, there was no willingness to accept it. And we have here today not to get lost for two minutes, we're getting lost for a few months, and that's for those who have been in conflict, who have violated the provisions of the applicable law, which we now have amendments and additions here. I really think that after this law, you're going to think a lot about whether or not you should show up for your personal integrity to defend, represent, or at least say anything affirmative about these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43448	Three-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time was used. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43449	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 9, in fact, to a member who amends Article 21, in Section 3, you wrote – the Deputy Director is dismissed. We felt, and that is the direction our amendment is going, that the deputy director is being resolved by the Agency's Committee. So every democratic society that holds on to itself and that really takes care that democratic procedures are very strict and that they are well-implemented, well-implemented, has to put a lot of bans on the officials that it sort of puts in place. We believe that since the Agency's Committee has already appointed a director, it is perfectly normal to appoint a deputy director. Since he's setting it up, then it's perfectly normal for him to even solve it. That's how we wrote our amendment. What do you get out that way? The possibility of subjectivity is reduced. The director can be extremely subjective and set up his friend, as Mr. Bosko Ristic does. We have godfathers who are placed in various places in the judiciary. Maybe they're really quality people, it's really possible that they're high-quality, I don't know them and I can't say it, but they kind of threaten the democratic principle. So if the director does, it's an abuse. Therefore, if the Committee has the right to appoint his deputy and to resolve his deputy, that possibility will be avoided.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43450	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. The word is Mrs. Banovic, so Mr. Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43451	Article 10th amends the current Article 22. The law. This is about the proposal to change the way the Director of the Agency and the Deputy Director's salary is accounted for. The applicant considers that the director has the right to pay the basic salary of the Supreme Cassation Court judge and that the deputy director of the Agency has the right to pay the basic salary of the Court of Appeal. So here the proposer believes that their salaries should be tied to the level of basic salaries of certain judges in some courts in Serbia. What I think is not good at all, is that you predict that the Agency's board can increase those basic salaries by 20%, that's Section 3, so you state as a reason – because of the complexity of jobs and responsibilities of the workplace. We propose and we believe that the Agency's director should have a salary of the prime minister's salary, and that the deputy should have a salary at the height of the secretary of state. I also tried on your site where the officials reported their basic salaries, so there's a lot of different receipts, it's not so uniform, but at this economic point, we think it's more appropriate for these salaries to be tied to these. Although it may even happen that somewhere even the salary is higher in what you suggested but, in any case, it's not good to predict the possibility of the salary increasing by 20%. You know, there are a lot of complex jobs in this country that people do, and they don't have the opportunity to have a board in that house increase their salary by 20%. So, there's a lot of complex jobs, so these aren't the options that are foreseen. In an explanation of why you refuse to say this, the Agency is an independent and independent state body, it is already questionable, so that the pay of the Director of the Fundamental Salaries Agency is more appropriate. As for God's people who work in the judiciary, they are independent and independent, especially after this famous reform and after this re-election and the radical election of judges, we still need to believe that the judicial authorities are completely independent and they are the image of independence, so other authorities will look up to them. You could have tied this to the salaries of the MPs. And the Assembly is an independent organ.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43452	One minute and 10 seconds of Parliament time. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43453	I would like to talk about article 10, which speaks about the salary of the Director and the Deputy Director, about the amendment to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10. The first thing I'm saying is, we haven't been involved in the debate so far, and we think whenever we have something to say, we say, when we don't, we don't talk. Our group representative supported the bill in principle. We did not ask, in addition, for anything else, anything less, for the government’s proposal to the congregation. We also support and support the government's opinion not to accept the amendments proposed. I have confidence in the government, and I think the government is responsible for proposing those amendments to the laws that are necessary to resolve some issue, remove doubt, and enough not to bring the essence of the law into question. We will continue to support that approach. When it comes to wages, we don't support the amendment. We will support this solution on the salaries of the Director and Deputy Director. We think they should have a decent salary and we think, in that sense, that this solution that was given should be so. As a result, I would also like to warn the National Assembly, and my Government and the public – something has been repeating to us lately when it comes to independent bodies, that the legal solutions that have tied their salaries to the president of the Assembly and ministers are running away from it. We almost had the chairman of the DRI Council, whose salary was in the basic law decided to have the president's salary, and then, considering that it was little, asked for various solutions and various justifications of how to be more. We now have a situation that, when it comes to the director and deputy director of the Agency, they flee from the ministry's salary by considering it small, asking for more. So I made myself very clear. We will not question that, we will support that, but I would like to warn both the public and the Assembly that, when we make these amendments to the law, we are almost demeaning the President of the Republic, the Ministers and the People's MPs. We constantly have an argument that independent bodies do responsible work, unlike, I guess, from those who do it irresponsiblely, that they are independent, unlike those that can be assumed to be addictive, etc. I do not advocate, I beg you not to get the wrong idea, to raise salaries to the President of the Republic, ministers and MPs, because I believe that they should share the fate of the people in this time, in these economic conditions, but I call on independent bodies to join them as well. It's not a criterion for someone to be independent just by having a higher salary, there's a lot of others. Being an independent state body means independence, independence, autonomy in work, but it cannot be independent of this economic situation, of this state of the country. So, my appeal, my call, don't ever again appear to us independent bodies with salaries that are a little ministerial, little pay from the president of the assembly, and then explain it by doing a responsible job as independent bodies. I find that an insult to the president, to the ministers, to the MPs. In view of that, as I said, and I will say about the amendments, I think the opportunity for the government to make and come up with a bill that will introduce order in this area in this country, a bill where even a decent wage ratio will be made, begins with what it is and who is a state official, what is and what is a public function, etc., to establish some criteria. Otherwise, we can only create a picture in the public that the President of the Republic is an irresponsible place, the National Assembly also, the Government, etc. I know this is a sensitive question, I repeat, I do not ask, I do not propose to raise the salaries of the president, ministers, MPs, because it should and must share the fate of the people, but I ask that all independent bodies show their independence through work autonomy, through doing independent jobs, but to adapt their demands to the economic situation in which the state of Serbia is located.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43454	Seven minutes and 40 seconds of MP time were used. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43455	Madam Minister, amendment to Article 10, actually Article 22 of the Old Law, paragraph 2, we suggested that it be deleted. Paragraph 2 reads here – the basic salary of the position of the 1st member, therefore, is the basic salary of the Supreme Court judge, due to the specific complexity of jobs and responsibilities of the job can be increased by a decision of the Agency's Committee by 22%. We felt that this was really too much and that this should be deleted, unless you think that this complexity of business, the special complexity of business and responsibility will contribute to these mayors who are an hour in executive, and the hour in the legislative authority will be brought in to really work and to perform only one function. Then perhaps you can say that these 20% should be put on. All that my dear colleague, Mr. Petronijevic, has said, I can sign it and I can put it in line with this amendment, as well as my colleague, Mrs. Banovic, who could have put it in the light of her amendment. So, vaguely, there's only one thing. How is it possible, colleague, to say all this and think all this and say from your heart that you won't vote for it? It's simply because I think that really ministers have a decent, well-paid salary. The MPs also have a rude, well-paid salary and should not run away from it. Why isn't anyone tied to the basic salary of the MPs? It's not the Agency's fault, it's not the Agency. It's not the Agency. It's not the Agency. It's not the Agency. So, the government is offering bait -- here you go, we'll raise your wages, they'll be very high, we'll take your jurisdiction and you'll do as we say. So what is very important, all the bodies, whether they're government, whether they're NGOs, whether they're regulatory, independent bodies, we all have to share the fate of this country and the ignorance of this government. We all need an economic situation that is like this and an empty budget to divide in the same way. No matter what kind of complexity it was, there are also complex jobs in this country. One of the complex jobs is the one that the MPs work and work on every day with an extension and work every day on a new law. So very dynamic, very complicated. You're not an expert on a particular area, you work with people who are, and yet we're not talking about the salaries of MPs being small, because they're not and we're not looking for bigger, because there's no point in asking them out of an empty budget, until a million people are employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43456	45 seconds of MP time was used. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have heard several MPs pleading on Article 10. It's a bill of law. Even without this attitude two, it's very disputable whether it's really acceptable to do this kind of thing that's proposed in this law. I understand when it comes to DRI, because it controls how the budget is spent, i.e. public funds, and if it is possible for abuse to be there, and who knows who is spending these funds, it is the executive authority, which has the support of the Serbian Parliament, and thus can have a certain impact on the work of the DRI. But the problem is, if you want to replace the president of the DRI, you have to lead the debate into the National Assembly to be resolved by the Assembly. It's his independence and his independence is being looked at. This is where the Director is appointed by the Committee. Let's get this straight first. So, an organ to which we have somehow transferred our responsibilities as bearers of sovereignty. I can't agree with the government's argument either. In the government's explanation, the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the bill's solution increases the number of jobs to be carried out by the Agency's director (a little later on in the course of business), given that these transactions involve great complexity and responsibility. Madam Minister, this is signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and says you are not doing a job that has great complexity and responsibility. He didn't write anything else. He also wrote that even the Supreme Court judge does not perform a large, complex and responsible job. He also wrote that the judges of the appeals courts are not doing a big, complex and responsible job, and they are solving someone's life and fate. What are those changes? What are these increases that the Director has based on this bill? Let's imagine a little bit. What are these increases? It decides what is not resolved by the law itself what will be a conflict of interest? Or he chooses a deputy director. What other complex and responsible job is his? What are we talking about here? I am one such proposal in the amendment, meaning for a person who is not appointed by the National Assembly, and can have access to the making and proposing of laws, and this is a conflict of interest and corruption itself. You will reward someone with 20% salary not to do the job properly, because he may have touched the executive authorities, because members of the Committee vote the majority. Of course you can have an impact on them. So, in one bill of law that needs to prevent corruption, we make corruption ourselves. Unfortunately, it's not just about DRI when it comes to these legal solutions, we have a lot of such legal solutions here in the Assembly, where working groups for lawmaking, and even when it comes to the Law of Salaries in the State Authorities, it's right here that some of them are going to be advisors, secretaries, deputy secretaries, and to have salaries bigger than the President of the Assembly, from the Secretary of Parliament, so it's a little bit, but they're going to be on various committees. Then we wonder when we read in the paper that a secretary has a salary of two million dinars, that a deputy secretary here in the Serbian Parliament has a salary of 200,000 dinars. There, that's the problem. All of you, dear fellow MPs, know and keep quiet about it and allow it all here in your house. So why don't you and DRI? Why don't you and the Anti-Corruption Agency do that? Why wouldn't the government do that to you? If any organ is independent, it should be the Assembly, and you bend your head and shut up and suffer to do whatever you want and say – we will press the button so as not to disrupt stability in the state. What, then, will be greater instability than evil authority? That's the problem here. We are here all the time discussing some policy, the National Assembly, the Government, etc., so now we have made it impossible for minority MPs to speak with our new rules of procedure, so that the government can do whatever it wants. You'll vote for it. Keep it that way, just don't go too far back and seven or eight years ago you passed the laws that you thought you were going to implement. After just a year, some other congregational majority and some other government enforced those laws, and then you said they were bad. That's the problem, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43458	Three-and-a-half minutes of Parliament time. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The word is Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I think that we have come to the very member for whom amendments and amendments of the law have just been made, which is why we have been presented with the proposed version of the amendments and the addition of the legislation that was passed in 2008, which has never been brought into practice and which is now required such a non-chalant explanation for why it will not continue to be applied in practice. This is in fact an example of how the law adopted with good intentions ended in a bad outcome, i.e. how the positive rules became a negative practice. The basic principle of democracy has been broken down here, because it has proved that an individual or a few individuals who have ignored this law that should have been applied to them, that they are stronger than society, than the law, and that certain legal regulations must be made for them, which will fit them, and not those laws, and we all know that. The only thing I can say and what's clear to me is that lawmaking has some reason, and here I'm interested in motives. What is clear, either that first law was passed in 2008 or these changes and additions did not come out of the same kitchen. It's impossible for the same team to work and that and this. That common sense cannot be signed, especially cannot be signed by a person with the personal and professional integrity of a good lawyer. The fact is that this is extorted, that this is a law of personal vanity and superfluousness within the ruling majority, as well as a demonstration of individual and collective blackmailing capacities, and of the personal interests that I'm not telling you. Any citizen of Serbia can tell you in their midst at least one name for which this is brought today, and which is why this Article 11 exists. That's what I can say and that's why I'm asking Mrs. Minister, who has the personal integrity of a great lawyer, I think Mr. Martinovic has made it much better, much more professionally explained all this, to listen to some things that because of his future, and she really has a good future for a good lawyer and a good lawyer, to listen to the opposition this time. If we haven't been able to convince ourselves of some things in 2008, here's practice has shown that individuals are older than the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43460	Your time is up. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Zoran Babic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the amendment proposed by the parliamentary group Forwards of Serbia's Progressive Party changes the entire text of Article 11. The draft law, i.e. Article 28 of the existing law, with the aim of limiting the ability to cumulate functions, because they are in force with the text and the possibilities are almost unlimited and without any rules. I will try to explain one point at a time the proposed text of the amendment. In this respect, Article 2 is prescribed that a regulation which obliges the official to perform additional functions may only be adopted by the Assembly, in order to prevent the cumulation of functions from allowing the regulations adopted by the officials themselves, or bodies in which the functioners are members. For example, the government would not be able to pass regulations that allow ministers to perform more functions, as that would make the law completely ineffective. However, in an explanation of the rejection of this amendment, signed by Mr Cvetkovic, you stated that the amendment proposed that the official can perform more than one public function, if required by the regulation of the National Assembly or the Assembly of the Autonomous Province, could create ambiguities in its application and deviation from the proposed concept of law. Do you, Madam Minister, in this way demean this assembly, have you no confidence in the transparency of our work and what it would be that the Assembly would adopt inconsistencies and bring uncertainty to the application of this law. Article 3. further maintains the possibility for the Agency to authorise the performance of another function, but Article 4 introduces a criteria for approval unlike the current solution, under which the approval is a discretionary right of the Agency without any restriction and rules, which is not acceptable, as it is an exception to the prohibition of cumulation of functions. The rules for the approval of other functions shall simultaneously avoid the possibility of exerting influence on the Agency. By proposing this amendment, we want to help you defend certain local cowboys who want to be both mayors and MPs, both judges and who knows what else is the law. Article 5 further provides that there is always a conflict of interest when a functioner simultaneously functions in the bodies in relation to subordination, as this is now a common case, so that the official is in a position to carry out an assessment, i.e. supervision of his work or to decide on objections to decisions made in the first instance procedure. Paragraph 6 is prescribed that the application for approval appointed to another function must be submitted by the authority intending to appoint a functionary to that function, unlike the current solution that the application is submitted personally, in which case the consent must be given by the body which appointed the functioner rather than the assumed, which is in any case a more correct solution. Article 7 may be the most interesting, because it is quite hollow and extends the deadline with which the Agency is obliged to make a decision and introduces the right to launch a administrative dispute. The current solution is hollow, not a proposed solution, under which the deadline is only 15 days, assuming that consent is given if the Agency's 'do not decide' in that time is not acceptable, because it is an exception and a very sensitive issue which deeply affects the Constitution guaranteed citizens' rights to equal availability of public functions. It violates the rule that the silence of the administration assumes rejection of demands, so the officials would be privileged to all other citizens. A particular problem may be a potentially large number of requirements that the Agency cannot resolve within 15 days, so many officials could obtain additional functions due to this fact, contrary to the adopted principle of ban on cumulation of functions. This has already proved to be true when a large number of officials filed a request in late March and the Agency did not resolve the spell, so the officials declared that they had received a silent consent. There is a practical problem and the ambiguity of the law when it comes to silent consent. The law stipulates that consent is deemed to be granted if the Agency does not decide within the prescribed time limit. However, when the decision is made, it is not yet known to the official until it is delivered to him and there is that old enigma, which is older, chicken or egg. Delivery for various reasons may also take a long time, so the established question is whether the official has received consent if the decision has been made, but has not been delivered to him within 15 days. If the promoter insists on retaining the silent consent, then it is necessary that this procedure be regulated much more precisely, as it is an important issue where particular abuses are possible. Article 8 provides that a functioner performing multiple functions may receive a profit or a fee for only one function. Other functions are often performed under official duty, with one more important function, so if the official has already been paid to perform his official duties, there is no basis to be additionally paid to perform a part of the work that is already his official duty. From a principled point of view, it is immoral and unfair that any of the states receive payments on a number of grounds, especially that the fees in monthly amounts are independent of the degree of engagement and in general the fulfilment of any obligations. In addition, it is known that these obligations are carried out mainly during working hours, and often for departures the benefits of official vehicles and travel costs are charged. In such conditions, membership in bodies and bodies is also a special form of rewarding party personnel, not a way to ensure effective performance of certain tasks. We are witnessing that even some ministers have more functions and all receive fees, and that these functions are appointed by the government's decision, whose members are members. Finally, the proposed new position 9 in Article 28 is unacceptable, for the reason that the issue of conflict of interest is regulated by law, so it should not be left with the possibility that the Agency should adopt regulations that require the exemption of certain categories of officials and activities from the rules laid down by law. It is particularly unacceptable that these regulations can be passed by a law enforcement body, i.e. by the Director of the Agency, and by the regulations it would adopt itself, as this would be a derogation from the principle of dividing the authority into legislative, executive and judicial. This way, I urge you once again to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43462	Five minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Malovic, if you wanted to carry out the principle that one man should have and do only one function, then you should have accepted the amendment of my esteemed colleague Zoran Krasic, because what you suggested in Article 11, and as regards Article 28, in fact, allows largely for individual citizens of the Republic of Serbia to perform two and even more public functions, and then from that principle one citizen – one function, practically, in this law, there is nothing left. Mr. Zoran Krasic's amendment is very simple, very precise and it absolutely affects the political essence that had to be found in the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Unfortunately, this political essence has not found its place in this law. The amendment reads: "The functioner can perform only one public function, regardless of the choice, position or appointment of the public office". There is no simpler way to express what should be the essence of this law, and that is whether the official comes into public office directly by the citizens, whether he is elected by the National Assembly or appointed by the Government, such a functioner can perform only one public function. You have not accepted this amendment, as you have not accepted any amendments to the SRS, nor any other parliamentary group that has tabled amendments, and in this way you have shown that you do not really want to limit individuals to only have one function. This bill allowed them to have more functions, by referring them to the Anti-Corruption Agency with a request, or a proposal to enable them to perform more public functions, and then the Agency decides from case to case whether one individual can perform more public functions, which is limited only to make sure there is no conflict of interest and, we have already said, there is no dispute over conflict of interest. It is defined by law, but what is not defined and what can in practice cause major problems is a conflict of two public functions in those initial provisions of the law, where basic concepts in this law are explained, there is no definition when there is considered to be a conflict of two public functions. This will be decided by the Agency from case to case, which means that it will not be decided in a consistent and uniform manner, i.e. it will be guided by what individuals are concerned, so that we can now say that the decision in such cases will not be fair, but will probably be made in the interest of those individuals who have made such a request to the Agency and addressed it. What's obvious about this amendment is that one man is objectively difficult to perform two public functions in a equally successful way. That's what we see here in the National Assembly. National MPs who are also directors of public enterprises are either mayors, or the presidents of municipalities, come to the National Assembly very rarely, usually when something is to be voted on. In the meantime, they are not in the National Assembly or when they are in the National Assembly, then they cannot perform that other job, or another public office, which is the directors, mayors, presidents of municipalities, etc. One of these public functions suffers, and that's obvious. We're all ordinary people, mortal people, people with limited and intellectual and physical possibilities. There are no men in Serbia and there are no men on the globe of the earth who equally well, equally successfully, equally responsibly can perform two public functions. And with us, Mrs. Malovic, you have cases that individuals perform six public functions. Because of the application of that principle of Cicero – the nomin of sant odyos, I will not mention the names now, that someone would not find himself called or offended or that someone would not think I was waging a personal war against individuals, it is not my intention, but there is no rational explanation for the situation for someone to perform six public functions without giving up any public functions. Such a successful man, such a smart man, I don't think there is one in Serbia. I'd love to have them, but unfortunately they're gone and they're hard to be, simply because of the nature of a man who's so capable of doing only one job successfully. This is about something else, Mrs. Malovic. Those individuals who did not want to declare by April 1st what function they are holding, which functions are denied, thus showing that they do not respect the National Assembly, that they do not respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, after all, that they do not respect the government of the Republic of Serbia, which the law has proposed. They demonstrate their political power in the most nakedest way possible and we, Mrs Malovic, whether you are aware of it or not, in some way we are returning to the Turkish era, not only because Mr Boris Tadic suddenly loved the Turks very much, so he returns them to Serbia and instead of being in Bratunc, he opened a cultural centre in Novi Pazar with the Turkish prime minister, but in a much more elementary sense of the words. It returns to us, Mrs Malovic, the time when you had the so-called "Serb" in Serbia. The princes of Nahih, and the prince of Nahih, the prince of Malten, depended on the life of a certain nation. He was also a judge, and a prosecutor, and a tax collector and performed all other functions. Now the time is returning, now you as minister of justice, this National Assembly, the law of the Republic of Serbia, can't do anything to one of the mayors of Shumadia, one Mayor of Pomorava, or they can't do anything to another mayor, say, of Vojvodina. Who can do what to them? They thus demonstrate how powerful they are, and how powerless the National Assembly is. We are free of the Law on the National Assembly, free of constitutional declarations about representing all citizens, that we are bearers of the sovereignty that the citizens have passed on to us. For nothing, Mrs Malovic, when you can't stop at the end of this or that individual, who laughs in your face, who laughs in the face of all of Serbia and says – what I care that I was obliged to do by April 1st, there's nothing anyone can do to me, who's going to protect me. As long as this principle is the fundamental principle of political life in Serbia, Serbia will neither be a democracy nor there will be parliamentaryism, nor will it ever be able to truly bring those great democratic standards and European standards to life, which you like to talk about. It's a problem with this law and you don't pass this law, and you don't, as we said in the principle debate, for some indefinite cases, for some future time, for some future situations and for an indefinite number of situations. That's the definition of a general legal act. No, when you wrote this law, you had in mind Jank, Mark, Peru, Djok, Mika, so they didn't respect the deadline of April 1st, so how to meet them, let's go for September 1st. The question is now – what will be the sanctions for people who did not respect the 1 April deadline? You know, since you're a lawyer like me, there's that Latin sentiment again that says the deadline binds instead of man. If the law requires a deadline for something to be done, to give up one function, to pay a tax, to file a claim, I suppose that deadline binds you, simply by the force of the law? There shouldn't be an Anti-Corruption Agency to knock on my shoulder and say you broke the law. No, if I'm a conscious man, if I'm a secure citizen of the Republic of Serbia, if I'm a member of a coalition that's in power, then I guess the letter of the law obliges me to respect it. They didn't respect him. Then they thought of one amazing thing, to turn to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, to protect them from applying the letter of the law by their own authority, if any. The law was completely accurate, absolutely not leaving room for any ambiguous interpretations, as it is now trying to impute itself. By April 1st, you are obliged to declare which function you hold, which functions you give up. Before the deadline expired on April 1st, they came to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, which imposed a provisional measure and suspended the fact of the provisions of the law at the Anti-Corruption Agency. They probably meant to buy time and buy it. Here, you are now buying it to them by voting the amendments to the Anti-Corruption Agency law and by ablibrating a whole series of irresponsible individuals in Serbia who, behold, are not going to comply with the law. Now I ask you with such a moral authority, with what moral law will you tomorrow ask ordinary citizens who do not have public functions, who do not have the protection of the Constitutional Court, who do not have their own minister in the Serbian Government, who do not have their own parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament to respect their legal obligations? Is it possible that the Constitutional Court will suspend the fact that, say, the Property Tax Act because there was a martyr in Serbia who failed to pay taxes because there was no money? No, the law has to apply to him. How can the law apply to ordinary citizens and cannot be applied to mayors, MPs, directors of public enterprises? How's that? How is double arches in Serbia true? We complain, often and justifiably, of the international community that there are double arches when it comes to, say, Kosovo and Metohija or Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska, etc., and we promote in Serbia the practice of double arches. For some citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the law applies, some of the laws do not apply. For a simple, small man, a man with no influence, no connections, no money, the law applies to him, to those who are mayors, who are both MPs and directors of public enterprises and who are on the boards of trophy football clubs in Serbia and who are who know what is not, the law does not apply to them. What do they care about the law? What do they care about the legal deadlines, what do they care about you, what do they care about the congregation majority, what do they care about the Anti-Corruption Agency? What can they do? That's the problem, Mrs. Malovic, which we are discussing, not whether the Agency's director's salary should be this big and that big, whether it takes a deputy director to choose a board or a director, all of these are minor topics. What is the fundamental theme today in Serbia is whether there is law in Serbia or not? If there is one, then that law must be applied equally to everyone, if it is not there, it is not applied to anyone, but then Serbia is not a state, especially not a rule of law, but Serbia is such a desert where everyone can do what they want. We in the SRS believe that Turkish time in Serbia should not rise. By the way, the whole fight from Karadjordje and to this day is pointless, because what you're promoting we had at a time when Serbia was ruled by the spirits. There is no law, the principle of force, the one who is stronger on his side is right. We're against it. The law must be applied equally to everything. It's the basic principle of modern democracy, from the French bourgeois revolution to today. Now we're in practice you have to show whether you want to apply these democratic principles or not. You're free if you're verbal for those principles. In practice, you're obviously not, I don't mean personally, but the majority of the congregation who are going to vote this, especially these individuals, who are why this law is being passed. These are the two times that are before you – either you will respect the law consistently and apply it equally to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia or you will not apply it to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43464	14 minutes of MP time was used. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43465	The esteemed chairman, Madam Minister, is an amazing ability and ease to count on amnesia and oblivion. Today, here, they are moaning and moaning that perhaps this law will allow someone, in accordance with the Constitution, to perform more than one public function and that is exactly what those who, at the time they were in power per man, are doing more functions than all 250 MPs have combined. So, if we're talking about whether the time of the nahiji is coming back or the time of the nahiji is coming back, I'd remind you again of the time in which, while they were running power, they were really law enforcement-- who's stronger, that's right. Now I don't want to go back and list all the examples that have been paid and the lives. What I'm saying is that the aim of this law is not to implement some non-existent in international standards of principle - one man, one function. This does not exist anywhere as a standard that is applied on the basis of what is necessary for the construction of a democratic society. When society decides to fight corruption, it also requires instruments. One of the instruments can also be that reducing the number of functions prevents the concentration of power and power. It can be a means and in some countries it is, more or less, a means to combat corruption. We are not here to discuss the Deaccumulation Act or the implementation of the principle – one man, one function, we are talking about the Anti-Corruption Agency Act here. Of course, we are also legitimately discussing this possible instrument that we can use to fight corruption. What definitely doesn't have any proof that more than one function is equal to the possibility of corruption. It hasn't been proven anywhere. So there is a principle that is consistently implemented on the basis of the principle of division of power, which is that there are incompatible functions. This law consistently implements the principle of incompatibility of functions. At the same time, incompatibility of functions does not automatically mean that one public function holder cannot perform any other public function and that this in any way brings him into a corrupt position or that in any way brings him into conflict of interest. In order not to make citizens think again that this is about something that is not at issue, those who say this is a backward return, I can say that this government and this parliamentary majority, which has decided for the first time in Serbia's history to limit its own power by law and by building institutions and to leave control over its own work to independent state institutions, is a government that deserves in every sense of praise and is shown by those who, thanks to our intention to join Europe, evaluate what we do, and thus all these laws are assessed by the highest grades. What I don't think is correct is a principle that doesn't have the same archaic and the same criteria. We have heard here that because of the fact that an independent institution, and the person who is at the head of this independent institution, and the economic independence wants to give a higher degree of independence, in this case in particular, I do not want to repeat all the ugly words that have been used, but that it is essentially treated as an attempt to corruption against that person. I want to remind you that when some of the other high-level authorities at the head of independent state institutions increased salaries, perhaps because they were not members or were members of the parties that were in power at the time, then everyone thought it was okay that they had such high wages and that it was not an attempt to corrupt them. Now that they are not in a position to decide and decide who will be the head of this independent state institution, then they are, indeed, extremely inappropriate and inadmissiblely harmful, treating it as an attempt to be corrupt. Do you want me to remind you how much we have determined that the recipients, i.e. the independent managers, have. State audit institutions, that there's more than expected to be someone who's the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency? If someone thinks that an independent state auditor should be financially independent, so as not to be subject to corruption, and that the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency should not be independent and stable enough in his position to be resistant to possible pressures, then he obviously does not understand that the Anti-Corruption Agency is an extremely important state institution, it is extremely important to create a mechanism in which the institution will be fully independent, free of any possible influence and pressure. I don't think that's fair. So, let's say we have the same criterion. If it's an economic crisis, then let's all have small salaries, but if for one it's not an economic crisis, then I think that, worthy of the importance of the institution, we can't, in an attempt to get some kind of political point, abuse and degrade an institution that I'm sure is of enormous social importance. I'm also sure that some, regardless of what they were in power, didn't think of passing laws that would limit their own authority, now they still think it's a good thing that this government would do it, because I'm sure they're aware that they didn't have the courage to do it, they didn't have the determination, they didn't want to give up the privilege that such a position was taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43466	Seven minutes and 40 seconds. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit, Mrs Colundjia, that I expected you, as an experienced politician, to be a little bit more creative, however, whatever topic is being discussed here in the National Assembly, you always have one and the same attitude – and how it was when the SRS was in power. There is no issue to be discussed in the People's Assembly without being transferred to us, and what it was like when the SRS was in power. It was the way it was when the SPS was in power, so now I don't see anything that bothers you very much. Secondly, Mrs Kolundzija, those who may have done something immoral on behalf of the SRS, don't be too hard on them, you know, because tomorrow you may have to make a joint government with them, because as we hear and read in the daily press, now neither for you nor for them, among whom there is a dead race that will be a bigger European, Kosovo is no longer an obstacle to Serbia's entry into the EU. Now those who were declared a Chetnik duke in the Principality in 1993 today declare in the press that the EU has no perspective. Now, if they really did do something that was not in accordance with the law or that was not moral, be a little easier on them because, who knows, you might, as the signals from Brussels come, maybe tomorrow or very quickly as coalition partners, so that it wouldn't happen to you as with the SPS, that you're all blackest about the SPS for years, but when you were squeezed, then you had to go with the SPS to make government. Don't even attack Tomislav Nikolic now because, who knows, tomorrow may be your coalition partner in some future government. What you, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't understand or don't understand is that this law is about you amnesting those who have not applied to their own skin the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Now, I'm asking you, what is the sanction for those DS officials of the G17 Plus, from the LSV, who did not enter into force by April 1st? Watch out, that law is still in force, no changes and additions have been voted yet. What's going to happen, what's the penalty against those people who didn't come forward by April 1st? Any sanctions? There isn't. Is there sanctions for a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who does not pay taxes within the time limit? There is. Now I ask you - where are these democratic standards? Where is the principle that the law is applied equally to everything? This law, Mrs. Kolundjia, is the result of compromise, quarrel, conflict, persecution. You've had these really fartic scenes. People take the amendment and then they convince us through TV cameras -- no, I didn't take the amendment, my mother, then -- I did, but in someone else's name. In the end, that amendment is withdrawn. So, I haven't submitted the amendment, but I'm withdrawing an amendment I haven't submitted. That's crazy. There's no such thing in the world. But, unfortunately, there is one here in the Serbian Parliament. This law, which is the fruit of a very rotten daily-political compromise, this law, which is the fruit of a flea of a political market, is adopted as it is, not because you want to be limited by the principle of one man – one function, but because it requires the EU to do so. This is one in a series of these so-called. European laws. We passed this law, we passed that law, this is European law, this is European standard. This is no standard. Technically, this is in line with European principles because you have the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, formally, technically. Essentially, it is neither European nor democratic. As far as the EU's assessment of you is concerned, I don't think, of course, about you personally, but about the regime that has ruled Serbia since 2000, so it's all in the European Commission's report. We, just the SRS, quoted that report, so it doesn't turn out that now we're giving some kind of bad criticism of what you're doing. No, we quoted what the European Commission reports say, on the progress of reforms in Serbia for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 etc. Very negative estimates in various areas of social life, even when it comes to fighting corruption. This situation will not be better after this law, I assure you, you know that. You can now list the MPs, which are people's, which is why you can list the mayors, the presidents of the municipalities for which this law is passed. You know them all. They're your people. You made it possible for them to behave in this Kabadish way. What do you care? We'll vote for changes and additions. Don't worry about it. Only when the elections are, if you're kind enough to give us a few hundred thousand euros, because, you know, we have to win that and that community. We didn't do anything, but we have to win, we need percentages, we're dropping ratings, etc. You all know how voices are won today in Serbia, let's not lie, let's be completely open. What do you pretend to be nice when you're not in practice? You all know how to abuse Serbia's budget, how to abuse these so-called. Disposition funds, how large public enterprises are being abused, how they are being abused and how people you have allowed to become rich from 2000 to today are being used. You all know that. That's what citizens know. The fact that the media is silent, that there is no corruption of the electoral body for some media, does not mean that the phenomenon does not exist in Serbia. The citizens will be able to find out a little bit about it. That's what citizens already know about where emergency local elections were held. It is no secret today for the citizens of Zemun, the Leader, the Vrbba, the Odjak, the Ruma, the Prepolje, Bora, Negotina etc. It may be unknown to citizens living in Zrenjanin or in Subotica, or Nis, or somewhere where there was no extraordinary local choice. Where they were, people in practice saw voices being bought. Now you convince us that you in Serbia will introduce European and democratic standards, how great all this is, etc., and you are waging a war against the Anti-Corruption Agency. You've completely disavowed this lady who's the director of the Agency. I have no subjective position about it at all, but the woman clearly stated her will that people who are conflicting with the interest on April 1st must give up one of the functions. Instead of supporting her in that effort, you told your MPs to contact the Constitutional Court, these are our people, elected on the political line, and they will protect you. They did that to people. In order to buy time, you are now voting amendments and additions to the law, where you are extending the deadline from 1 April to 1 September, but in a far lighter form, because in the existing law by 1 April, they had to declare which functions are being denied, and now only to inform the Agency that all functions are performing. So this law is completely pointless. He in practice not to give positive results, will give negative results. Then put a little finger on your forehead, and see why that is. The easiest thing to say-- when you were in the U.S.S., it was like that. It certainly was. There were good things, there were bad things, but we've been in power for two years, you've been in power since 2000, you've had every possible and impossible instrument of power available. Today in Serbia, power must be identical by vertical means to central government in Belgrade. It must be the same composition of the councils of the local community, the assembly of the municipality council, the circuit assembly, the province government, the republican assembly, the republican government. He's got to force God. Somewhere where the citizens want – great, where they won't – there's our government, there's our police, there's our minister for local self-government, there's conclusions that bring down the will of citizens, etc. These are the conditions, Mrs. Kolundjia, in which you will apply this law which, I repeat once again, is the fruit of a day-to-day political compromise, a compromise that will not bring good to the citizens of Serbia, except that it will allow your local cabads to continue doing what they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43468	Nine minutes and 25 seconds. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43469	Mr. Chairman, I think you've violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because in the first part of his presentation, the previous speaker spoke not of a point on the agenda, but of SNS and Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I don't see what the Anti-Corruption Agency has to do with Tomislav Nikolic and SNS. Apparently, the reason my previous speaker says so is that SNS is the only party today in Serbia that can beat DS. The reason for this hysteria is because they cannot fulfill their president's order not to let the SNS defeat his DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43470	Mr. Arsic, if anyone hurt the Rules of Procedure, that's what you did, I certainly didn't. I don't see what part of it, in the first part you recognized yourself, let me take your word for it, but I didn't recognize that Mr. Martinovic once, in an offensive word, mentioned neither the party, nor the parliamentary group, nor Mr. Nikolic. I hope you're satisfied with this explanation, and I listened very carefully to it. If you are not, in the voting day, the Assembly will make a statement about it, but I ask you to listen more carefully in the future or to advertise the Rules of Procedure when I really miss something, as a help, and I would very much like to accept it. Thank you. Now the word is Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43471	Mr. Chairman, there have been many words here that should have clouded the essence. It seems to repeat that when we want to convince ourselves of something, we speak very much without any facts. What is very simple and what is extremely clear and summed up only in one statement that came out in "Politica" on June 29th 2010: "In the ruling coalition yesterday they were very abstentioned in commenting on the proposed amendments to the law and their withdrawal from the procedure. One of the few who wanted to say something was Meho Omerovic, ZES – SDP (so, a colleague of Mrs Kolundžija, who sat next to her), who estimated that unfortunately individuals behave so that we also have to adapt the laws to them and their interests, because it is up to them to the ruling coalition. I think that's how bad the moves will eventually come back on our heads." So this is summed up all of what Mrs. Kolundjia was saying very extensively. Not only does counterpart Meko Omerovic tell whom these moves will be struck against the head, whether they are to the coalition or Serbia. At the end of Serbia, if they stay in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43472	One minute and 15 seconds of Parliament time. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43473	Mr. Chairman, I'm sure you recognize for a reason those whom, when we look into the past, we see facts that don't apply to them. It's not my fault, it's not my fault. It's not my fault. It's not my fault. What it is is always the reason that I'm going back in time, although I really wouldn't do it, is that someone for a civilizational step we're making, trying to build a dam for corruption by law and institutions, someone calls it a return to Turkish time. Then it provokes and asks to show that some things see themselves differently from what they really are. I remember well that it was also pointless for the Traffic Safety Act, so it turns out that this law brings results that mean fewer victims on our roads. I also remember that there was a claim that it was pointless to take away the property and that we were just staining our eyes and that no one's property would ever be taken away, so now we're talking about hundreds of millions of euros taken away from criminal property. I also remember that when we passed the State Audit Act, that it was also a law that was pointless, that it was also a law that we tried to cloud our eyes, and then everyone went into the defense of the state auditor and said, well, it's good, it should be supported, it should continue what it does. I also remember that there was no sense in the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Selection of Information Trustees, that there were massive attacks as to how it was party will, the rotten compromise, that no one would do anything about it, and they would not do anything, but we are just courting Europe, so we are doing something for Europe, and we are actually not willing to do it. Today it turns out that we did a good job, that on the basis of this job we can build a truly true democratic country. I believe the fate of this law and the Agency will be similar. Today you say that the law is pointless, today you say that we have no political will, and I believe that in two years you will support the Agency, arguing that this law is good and that it has allowed Serbia to at least deal with corruption institutionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43474	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43475	The Honorable Chairman, this particular Article 11, which has been discussed today, in some ways also shows the evolution of the obstruction of the application of this law at the time when the Anti-Corruption Agency Act began to apply since 1 January of this year. When you look at all of his norms and all of these changes that are now contained here, we can't say what we're hearing these days without any evil intentions, which is that it is a step backwards from the solutions that were in the basic text of the law. We can find a thousand reasons here today to explain why we bring these changes, but those changes when they look at each other with more precise norms that were in the basic text are a step backwards. I'd like to hear it, and since I'm a lawyer reading a careful text and I know that I'm interpreting the law, to what extent is this law a better solution than it was a solution to the basic text, and what is it going to have in the fight against corruption than the solutions that have now been? We didn't get that explanation. Where is the better effect of this law in the fight against corruption compared to the solutions we have now had? Here, now I'm going to read the views of this member. It was like this - before accepting another public function, or running for another function, a functioner who intends to perform several functions, is required to request the Agency's consent before entering the post. The solution is now proposed – when it is already selected, then it requires the consent of the Agency to remain in the function it has already been elected to. Really, step back. The agency should appreciate the initial solution of whether it can come into a situation of conflict of interest and create conditions for corruption, so that it can tell it – no, you can't be elected at all, and now that the actual situation is created, when political pressures are possible, the Agency can conflict with that functioner and tell him – now that the body that chose you will resolve you. Step back. Furthermore, the Agency may establish other public functions that officials may perform without the consent of the Agency in relation to a solution which did not exist in the current text of the law. It wasn't in the basic text of the law. What is, in fact, a key problem in this Article 11, the basic text of the law mentions the way the functionors choose. Here is now the notion of a functioner directly chosen by citizens and there is actually a fundamental problem. We have a dispute with a large number of officials, who were found after 1 January 2010, at individual posts, to claim that these functions were chosen directly from the citizens and that it is neither moral, nor fair, nor in the spirit of the electoral will of the citizens to now withdraw from the functions to which they were elected directly from the citizens. The Constitution speaks of individual categories directly chosen by citizens. These are the President of the Republic, the MPs, the councils, the province's MPs in the province's congregations. Then comes the interpretation of many of these officials that the functions of the mayor, the president of the municipalities, the regional secretaries, the president of the municipalities in Vojvodina, are functions to which they were elected directly from the citizens. That's not true. These functions they were elected to are said to – citizens knew who they chose in the May elections. They didn't know which mayors they were choosing, and they didn't know which regional secretaries they were choosing. These people were chosen by congregations of cities, congregations of municipalities, and the District Assembly. They are not directly elected by citizens, they are in conflict of interest and they do not fall under the category of directly elected citizens. Now this member allows these people to be treated as directly elected by citizens and to continue to function. There is a problem that we are talking about, and you will see very quickly, that such opinions will be given, that people who are mayors, who are regional secretaries, that they are chosen by citizens, are directly elected by citizens. The people chose them in May 2008. He didn't choose them, they were elected by the congregations as executive bodies. You create conditions here for these people to remain in those functions and be treated as direct citizens. I am now asking here and the representative of the ministry, Minister Malovic, whom I respect, to say which functions were directly chosen by the citizens, besides those set by the Constitution? It is said here that only in the Constitution, I am reading the Law, a official who has been elected to a public office directly from the citizens can, without the consent of the Agency, perform other public functions directly from the citizens, except in cases of incompatibility established by the Constitution. What other functions I'd like to hear. Is that the mayor? I'd like to hear if he's the mayor. Is he a circuit MP? If they didn't, then these people are subject to provisions, then you didn't have to change the law. These people had to stop performing their post after April 1st. Here is the point, and we should talk honestly, in the next – there has been a dispute between these officials, the Ministry of Justice and the Government and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Unfortunately, the dispute brought before the Constitutional Court resolves the law. The Constitutional Court has reached a solution as a temporary measure that suspends the implementation of the Agency's decision, and so that the matter is not suddenly delayed and in order to save face and the Agency, and the Ministry, and everyone, and the Constitutional Court, in order not to continue to dispute with these state institutions, the law is amended. That's the essential thing. The dispute that has been initiated between all these authorities, unfortunately, is resolved by amending the law. That's the fundamental truth. To keep these people in those positions and to be later interpreted as being directly elected by citizens and not in breach of electoral will. And these people have gained these functions as mayors, the president of municipalities, province ministers and secretaries, as the statute says now, following the elections in the National Assembly or in the assembly of the AP Vojvodina as directly elected by citizens of the province's MPs. The second function that should have been denied is the second function for which they were not elected directly, which is the office of mayor or regional secretaries, or the director of a public enterprise in certain cities, in Vojvodina in a specific case, and in central Serbia we do not have such situations. It took these other functions to give up, and now we have a situation that they will not give up these functions and ask for abolation by the law. Here you will see how the Agency will interpret what it means to be directly chosen from the citizens. They're going to interpret it just like this, very broadly, and that's why they're giving the Agency the authority to interpret the application of the law in any particular situation. Unfortunately, all institutions have been dragged into this dispute so that some people will remain in office. The Department of Justice has been dragged in, the Anti-Corruption Agency has been involved, the Constitutional Court has been dragged in, and the National Assembly has been dragged in. Four important institutions in this country deal with some people who want to retain two functions, which are not chosen directly by citizens and we should say that – no, you are not selected. That these people were elected as directly elected mayors, so that the question of legitimacy and disputation of electoral will would be asked, the people chose them. They were not chosen by the people; they were chosen by the councils or MPs in the National Assembly or MPs in the circuit assembly. Where did they get so much political power? The only thing we can interpret is that it's political power based on government support or ultimately political power that exists within the biggest ruling party, in order for this law to be passed. This law compared to previous solutions, I would like to hear in a serious debate, not with messages and passwords, that this is a better solution, consisting of quality and positive effects compared to the solutions that were in the basic text. I would also like to hear from distinguished Minister Malovic, I would also like to hear from representatives of the ruling coalition and to see in an open debate what is the poor quality of the solutions that were made since October 2008. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43476	Seven minutes and 15 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lightning, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when we were just listening to the story of our socially responsible government, indeed one who doesn't know what it is or one who doesn't feel like living with this socially responsible government might really think he lives in a very well-organized state where state officials say they live and share the fate of their people. I can say that such a thing can be said for some other countries, some other regimes where government officials really live, act and work by sharing the fate of their people, such as one Sweden. We are far from that Sweden and miles away, and we are still in the way this government is working. As regards this amendment, it concerns that the public function ceases in the case referred to in Article 7 of this Article on the day of the adoption of the decision on the termination of the function by the officials. This is a purely legal issue, a question that actually concerns the legal consequences of making such a decision. It is a situation where the Agency decides that the choice, appointment or appointment of officials is done contrary to the provisions of the law and in such a case you provide that the body that has chosen, appointed or appointed has had an obligation to make a decision on the termination of that function. If the function doesn't stop by automation, as it should be, the question of what moment does this function actually end. What is this moment that can be taken as a real moment of termination of function? It is about the legal consequences of the decision to cease office. The question arises whether that function ceases or can cease by making a decision by the Agency, by making a decision by the authorities or, as we have asked, at the moment of decision-making by the officials. We consider this the third solution to be the most correct and this amendment is exactly what we're asking for. Because how does someone know or how someone will stop their function in fact if they don't know at what time and when that decision is made, and they will know it best and only at the moment when they take a decision to stop that function. So that and that moment, the moment of decision-making by the officials, would be considered the moment where one function ends. Will the interpretation that the Government has regarding the moment of termination of office open up the possibility for different interpretations? You know, Madam Minister, if any provision of any law is passed in such a way that it gives an opportunity to interpret it one way or another, to interpret it in two different ways, it's really not good. Because in such a case someone can continue to perform another function, continue because he has not actually taken a decision to terminate that function. You consciously lead to a situation which, here to joke, the Montenegrins a little funny, and a little serious, say the debtor will pay off if the rust waits, so it can be transferred here, the official will leave the function if the rust wants to wait. Believe me, under this law, you just don't know when it's gonna happen. There's a possibility of a different interpretation. That's what's not good and that's why we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43478	Three minutes and 15 seconds of Parliament time. There's 29 and a half minutes left. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43479	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when we held the debate in principle, the SRS Parliament Club pointed out that two members of this draft law on amendments and amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act are actually members who reflect the essence of the amendments, which is Article 11 amending Article 28 of the basic law and Article 29 amending Article 82 of the basic law. We've already said that these changes want to allow individual officials to continue to perform more functions. When the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was adopted in front of the National Assembly, it was a little less than two years ago, a ban on performing other public functions for all officials was defined, unless the law and other regulations required it to perform more public functions. It has also been defined to be extremely capable of performing a second function, based on the Agency's consent. And these provisions have caused some doubt, but now these changes clearly reveal the intention to enable multiple functions to be performed by one functionary. Thus, amendments and additions are provided for new positions to be added in Article 28 and that the final position is – for certain categories of officials, the Director of the Agency may, by means of a general act, establish other public functions which officials may perform without the consent of the Agency referred to in Article 5(5). The SRS Parliament Club disagrees with this, and that is why we have submitted an amendment requesting that this said position be deleted. If this is adopted, to enable the Director of the Agency to do this, there is plenty of space left for abuse. Also, this type of functioner can be the subject of arbitrary interpretation of what categories are these? The previous views of the changes indicate that the restriction in the performance of functions does not apply to officials who have been elected directly from the citizens. That's not right. The reason for this is the situation where a large number of such officials were found on the day of the application of this law on 1 January of this year, and that these officials actually do not want to give up any of the functions they perform. We had the opportunity to hear from Master Martinovic in the debate that such officials in Vojvodina are numerous and that their functions are numerous, that individuals have up to six functions. Also, in the whole territory of Serbia, we have officials who are both executive and legislative authorities, which is the clearest form of conflict of interest. If we look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which clearly says, in the act concerning the ban on conflict of interest, in Article 6, no one can perform a state or public function that is in conflict with its other functions, businesses or private interests. The constitution says no one, and the promoter of these changes says someone, more specifically individual categories. These individual categories of officials will be allowed not to at all request consent from the Agency when entering into office and this is an open position of individuals above the provisions of the highest legal act. If they hadn't wanted to be put above the Constitution and above the laws, for the time being, untegrated officials, but if this were to be adopted, the officials would have been categorized, if they wanted to respect the letter of the law, they would have declared by April 1st which function they would continue to perform. Apparently, their goal was to disrespect the law, and as it is difficult to respect the law, the easiest solution seems to be to change the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, not to improve the fight against corruption, but according to the wishes of those who wish to retain existing functions. This creates the possibility that any of them can say at any time, as it says in the law. Also, that the law that was passed less than two years ago, when it came into force and after the deadline for a plea, had already been applied on 2 April after what was defined in Article 28(6) of the current law, which says – the official who has been elected, appointed or appointed to another public function contrary to the provisions of this law, the later function ceases by force of the law. However, this is now interpreted as referring to those who will enter into other functions in the future and it seems that this provision will never apply, because it will find a coverage in this act which will determine that the performance and other functions without the Agency's consent is possible, and when the body, or the permanent working body of the body that has chosen, appointed or appointed a later function, would want to act by law and literally take away another, i.e. Later functions, then gets the answer: I am a solution, a decision or whatever, director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, an individual categorized official, and you can't do anything to me. This also devises the alleged effort to impose an obligation to do so by prescribing a fine of 50,000 to 150,000 dinars for a responsible person in a state body or organisation, a territorial autonomy body or local self-government, a public service and another legal person exercising public authority if he does not take a decision on the termination of office within the time limit laid down in Article 28 of Article 8 of this Act. It is certain that something like this will not happen because these amendments and additions of the Law will provide that much-needed coverage to perform more functions. The SRS Parliament Club is of the opinion that in violation of the law, it is those who know about the incompatibility of functions in the bodies of the legislative and executive authorities. They also knew this when they entered those functions and disobeyed the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. They have not declared what function they will continue, but rather want to keep everything, calling for those functions to take place before the law is applied and that it should remain that way until the end of the mandates. It is just another piece of evidence that those who adopt laws rush first to break them and adapt them to their needs, so that they can hold all ends in their hands. Because such things are possible, because there is such a concentration of power, we have behind us, among other things, and such a privatisation process in which, on the one hand, a lot of people are out of work, literally on the street, without being able to school or even feed their children. When you take everything away from someone, when you take his job, you take the future of children, you take his life. We have a situation where people cut their fingers, nail nails into their hands. In this process, on the other hand, some overrich people, whose property cards on the Anti-Corruption Agency site, are really, really rude to read.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43480	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Nikola Lazic. No one answered the word. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43481	Dear citizens, distinguished colleagues, ahead of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS has submitted an amendment to Article 13. The draft law so that Article 30(5) is amended and reads as follows: "According to the Agency's decision, the applicant may initiate an administrative dispute, as well as in the event that the Agency does not decide on a request within the time limit set out in Article 4 of this Act". Also, the 6th and 7th points of view are deleted. Article 13. The bill is not acceptable, because the introduction of the word "i.e., means working full-time or on permanent work", makes this provision unclear and allows for different interpretations. The proposed amendment amends the position of Article 5 of Article 30, so that the decision of the Agency cannot be considered silent within the time limit, but it is prescribed that the applicant may initiate an administrative dispute and according to general rules applicable to all citizens and legal persons. In particular, it is inappropriate for the silence of the administration to become a legal basis for a derogation from the principle laid down by law and the Constitution, and must take into account a potentially large number of requests and the Agency's problems to resolve them at any time. There have been cases, and even in some I have had insights, let's say, that the circuit administration or certain regional secretaries for some submitted requests from municipalities where not the same ruling majority say – submit a request, we won't answer, silence the administration, your request will be passed, just so you don't mind coalition partners. The Agency may also prescribe other tasks which may be carried out without consent, which do not comply with Article 6(2), by means of a general act. The Constitution, which is prescribed that conflict of interest is determined by the Constitution and by law, so that this authority cannot be prescribed by another type of general act. Deleting Article 7 is proposed because, in a conflict with Article 1, the general prohibition of other work or activity is prescribed, so it is not possible to prescribe additional prohibitions, in particular it is not possible to prescribe prohibitions to other regulations, as Article 6 is paragraph 2. The constitution prescribed that conflict of interest be governed by law. But the law for some does not apply, and for some, or it is a matter of morality and personal integrity, because, for example, from a personal example, where I was elected from the majority list for the province's MP in 2003, while at the same time serving as a member of the People's Parliament in the Serbian Parliament, but by changing the Constitution in 2006 and after the new elections in 2007, I resigned as a member of the province's MP, although I was directly elected to that post by the citizens, because I respected the Constitution and Article 102, which prescribed that the function of the MP and the province's MP were incompatible. So much for respecting the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43482	A minute and 40 seconds of MP time has been used. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Miroslav Petkovic. No one's answering for a word. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and together Jovan Palalić, Milica Radovic, Milica Vojić Markovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Mrs Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43483	Miss. Dear colleagues, the respected citizens of Serbia who will follow this session in a delayed transfer, I would like to make an amendment that I have submitted together with my colleagues on behalf of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. We've proposed to amend the entire text of Article 14, so I'll read about how he should read it. Article 14. The proposal shall be amended in such a way that Article 31 reads: "The persons to be placed in office for whose performance a working relationship is established shall be obliged to cease any other act or to obtain the consent of the Agency for their performance, except for the activity referred to in Article 30(2). The Agency shall decide on the request within 15 days. The applicant may initiate an administrative dispute against the Agency’s decision, as well as in the event that the Agency does not decide on a request within the time limit set out in Article 2(2)." As I said, the amendment proposed to amend the entire text of Article 14. Proposal, i.e. Article 31. The law thus obliges the official to resolve the issue of incompatibility of other operations or activities prior to the entry into office of either by termination or by obtaining the consent of the Agency. The proposed amendment amends the position of Article 3 of the 31st, so that the Agency's decision cannot be considered to be a silent consensus within the time limit, but it is prescribed that the applicant may initiate an administrative dispute under the general rules applicable to all citizens. The amendment also includes erasure of Articles 31 and 31. A law stipulating that the rules do not apply to members of the managing authority of the Staff Regulations. This provision only allows members of the managing authority to become persons in charge and already have the status of officials. Other employees do not need to prescribe exceptions because they are not subject to the law. Paragraph 5 of the Law is unacceptable because the issue of conflict of interest is regulated by law, so it should not be left with the possibility that the Agency should adopt regulations that require the exemption of certain categories of officials and activities from the rules laid down by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43484	I thank you. You've spent half a minute just wasting the time of the parliamentary group. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The word is Igor Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43485	Dear colleagues, respected citizens, the Progressive Serbian Progressive Party and Gros MPs parliamentary group have tabled an amendment to "i.e. work full-time or permanent work" be deleted in article 15. The entry into the text of Article 33 and the words "i.e. means working full-time or on permanent work" makes this provision unclear and allows for different interpretations, and we suggest that we delete these words. It is particularly unclear what the word "understands" means in this context, because laws must not imply anything, but everything must be written so clearly that the law can be applied without the need for further interpretation. The same applies to the so-called permanent work. Now the question is, what does that other term mean, is it work indefinitely, or is it something else? The question is also asked whether it requires cumulative meeting of the conditions, is the law only applicable to fixed-time officials, with full-time hours, or is only one condition sufficient? Since the imagination of our officials has no limit, we are certain that some will establish a working relationship with 95% full-time, to avoid law enforcement because it is not full-time. It is also possible for officials elected with a certain and limited mandate to declare that it is not permanent work because they have a mandate of 4 or 5 years, so as to ensure that they are not subject to the law for decades as they move from one function to another with a limited mandate, which can be repeated. These days, the newspaper is full of statements by individual officials, individual mayors who blackmail the ruling coalition in various ways, from a sentence that 15,000 volunteer officials will be reduced and some 15,000 new members of the ruling coalition will be in their seats.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43486	Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic and Milica Radovic. No one answered for the word. The 26th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted an amendment proposing that Article 26a be added after article 26. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43487	Ladies and gentlemen, here's how a man who is a doctor by profession, and has a sense of justice and justice, can make one legal norm, or one member very acceptable. In order to understand what this is about, I need to read the text of the Amendments and Supplements Bill, and later the amendment. I don't understand why the government didn't accept this amendment. Article 82 reads: ''Funkcioner who has performed several public functions, that is, with a public office performed a second job or activity on 1 January 2010, and has not defined by 1 April 2010, which public function will continue to be performed, shall be obliged to notify the Agency by 1 September 2010 at the latest, which shall carry out all functions, jobs or activities. The Agency shall, upon receipt of the notice, determine whether the exercise of more public functions, i.e. by performing a job or by working, endangers the impartial exercise of public office, or whether this constitutes a conflict of interest. Where it finds that the exercise of more public functions, i.e. by performing a job or by acting in accordance with Article 1 threatens the impartial exercise of public office, i.e. constitutes a conflict of interest, the Agency shall take a decision setting a time limit, which may not be longer than 30 days, in which the functioner is obliged to stop performing incompatible functions, i.e. doing business or activity. If the official does not act within the time limit set out in Articles 1 and 3 of this Article, the Agency shall carry out a procedure to determine the infringement of this Act. ''Here, this last position, as imperfect as it is, says – if the official does not act within the time limit laid down in Articles 1 and 3 of this Article, the Agency shall carry out a procedure to determine the violation of this law; it shall implement and begin, it may begin, but it shall not have to end it. Until when does it have to end? It doesn't have to until 2012 if the government somehow pushes it out. What did Dr. Pai Momchilov propose to amend Articles 29 and 82, respectively? The official who performs several public functions on the day of entry into force of this law shall be obliged to declare which public function will be carried out further within seven days of the date of entry into force of this law. So, very simplistic, practical and completely clear. If it has not been declared by 1 April 2010, within seven days of the date of entry into force of the law amending and supplementing this law, it shall be required to define which function it will perform. We could hear here that certain provisions of this law cannot be applied retroactively. You will agree with me, dear colleagues, that the function of the MP is very serious and responsible, but those that change this law, which by their capacity want to strengthen or preserve this government, rarely when we see them. This is not for sure, as I said because of 1,800 or 1,900 people, Serbian citizens who may be intertwined with some conflicts of interest, but because of a small number of but very influential and those who have direct influence and have the opportunity to influence the further survival of this government. We know well that those who at the same time are MPs and mayors very rarely, i.e. only in exceptional situations, and that is when a quorum is to be determined or when to vote, they are only present at the National Assembly sessions at the time, which points to what counterpart Martinovic was talking about, one man can perform more functions, but what is here is certainly not. Something must suffer, so whether a choice for a mayor who is not direct, based on the will of a councilman in certain local self-government, or what the citizens have said and directly elected MPs. I think that this law, in addition to being not just and fair, is also shameful with such provisions as exist and in no case in the voting day can be expected not only to support the MPs of the SRS, but I think of all those who have a distinct sense of justice, such as Mr. Paja Momchilov, and who should not support this law. We should fight for the consistent application of the law, not to find modals how and how we can play them and not apply them. When one day, with much patience, we have it, the SRS is dominantly in power, then certain European countries, by example of the laws of Serbia, will pass such laws, not today to meet some standards, some European laws that don't make sense, or the assembly majority only brings them to deceive those of whom at this point depends.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43488	The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Palalic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. No one's answering for a word? The 29th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43489	How much time do we have, Mr. Chairman, as a parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43490	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43491	Thank you. Article 82, as the Progress Group proposed by Serbia's SNS, made sense that the restrictions we really believed were accepted, not naively, but wanted to believe in the proposal's intention to clear up with the problem of cumulation functions. Since we had an express, constitutionally limited and very rigid view of taking on more functions in the image of one man, which many functions could not perform with honor, honesty or quality, Article 82 proposed a precise way of making certain exceptions, which would literally be brought into an unfair position in relation to where there really is a possibility of abuse, corruption and conflict of interest, would not be taken into account, so we mention those distinguished professors, related functions and committee members with the school boards, but to wait for you to complete a consultation with the secretary, or that at the moment of resolution and giving up their functions in precise deadlines and ways are appointed by other persons. He's a little longer, he's very precise, and, I say, he had the sense to make all the exceptions that would be unfair in relation to the situations that life directs. However, one sentence that we have given the correction has made in public a very interesting confusion almost, where the word that this applies to those officials who are directly elected, in doubt of those who are looking forward to seeing a new coalition or to observing the law, or to giving someone debt back to someone, thought it might replace the amendment that has submitted part of the ruling coalition, with the possibility of retaining incompatible functions. That's why we had to make that correction. I am concerned by the practice of simply, when there is one law that leaves some part of the vague, at the moment it reaches for an interpretation that actually requires the possibility of this law being broken and the violation of the Constitution being legalized. I'm literally and most clearly saying, Article 82, as you've formulated it, with a delay in the deadline, is actually the mining of your own project, yes, buying time until the next election. Because if someone defends themselves by the complexity of the job, by responsibility, where should they have a salary greater than yours, as a minister, does the job description you're doing as a minister be taken under a part of the work done by the director of this agency? We're not talking about personalities, we're talking about functions. What are they supposed to do? To make a register of officials, to follow international regulations and to carry out the operator's tasks of entering that data. They already have 65 people, they want you to give them another 35, they want them to have this kind of income, so they can make you this concession, that the Government on glass legs, formed on the missing money to increase pensions, which was not at that moment and which was melted, I repeat, pension inflation and inflation where we all lost, here, this is the same kind of concession, in which those who demand to remain in double functions will be able to remain in those functions until the government decides to call the elections. Is it worth treating the Constitution like this and contributing to the legality of the system, although we are aware that we have destroyed young generations by allowing them to live in lawlessness and by taking up double functions these young people say – what am I looking for in this country? Where are those once honorable functions, to be a member of an organ, like RIK? It was an honor to be a member of RIK and receive compensation for ad hoc work. Now they're permanent organs, because we have constant choices. One place at a time, one city at a time, a little Kosovo, a little Serbia. We've done everything we can, we've made people a commodity, and you've made this law a trade. I hope someone knows how to punish.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43492	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Now we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, and I ask - does the proposing's representative want a final word? Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43493	I thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, and I think that this debate will allow the public to finally resolve or certain doubts that were related to this bill itself, as well as certain institutes that exist in this bill or have existed and in the current law are simply presented in one way that was not in its sense. This bill, as well as the law itself, follows what was our intensity, which is to keep the law in line with international standards, and I mean primarily the recommendations of the group of countries to fight corruption or GREC, and I will tell you that according to the latest GREK report, Serbia has made the most progress compared to all transition countries, because of the 25 mandatory recommendations of the GREK Serbia has completed 20 recommendations in full, and five recommendations in part, so that we have entered into a new cycle of evaluation. This bill, as I said in the debate on principle, was caused primarily by the Constitutional Court's decision and, as someone responsible for this topic or for this bill, I did not want to allow the Constitutional Court to decide as it did with regard to the Law on Local Self-Government, where the Government simply did not have enough hearing and did not respond and warn certain cassation of the provisions, and you yourself know much better than I do what consequences this law has caused and that there are still misunderstandings in the application of this Constitutional Court solution. I claim that this law does not represent the accumulation of functions and favours any group of officials, and that is what I mean by the presidents of the municipalities and mayors or majority MPs mentioned here. The only option where it is possible to perform multiple functions without the Agency's consent is those of the officials elected in the direct elections. The Constitution is repeatedly cited here, and that is exactly what it is, because it is an expression of the will of Serbian citizens and of course it is clear why there is no need for the Agency's consent. Also, I would like to point out that this law cannot consistently implement the principle, which is also set here and even with international standards, that one man performs one function, because the Constitution itself does not treat officials in this way. So the Constitution itself has prescribed that certain officials perform another function. We have been quoted here many times that the chairman of the Justice Committee is also a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and that is, in fact, a constitutional provision and, therefore, it must be respected as such. As regards the Agency's authority, the Agency is an independent and independent body, and I agree that there are then great powers to the Agency, great powers to the Director of the Agency, but I am deeply convinced that this law will be properly applied in practice and that it will have full responsibility for the Director of the Agency whoever it is. But unless this occurs, the law itself in its Article 3 requires that the Agency lays down accounts for the National Assembly, so I am convinced that the National Assembly will use its authority and control further work of the Agency. I thank everyone again for the debate. As I said, I am deeply convinced that this debate will just help to make certain provisions in the draft laws set out precise, but also to clarify certain ambiguities in the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2010-07-21-0.u43494	Thank you to Mrs. Snezani Malovic, Minister of Justice. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. As we have conducted a search of principles and details, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
